ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7050	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you all and open the 77. Meeting of the National Council. Meeting of the regular meeting 2001/2002
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7075	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 29. On 1 August 2001 the Commission adopted a Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the 1 Federal Constitutional Act the National Council for the 14th. September 2001 at the ordinary meeting 2001/2002 of XXI. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. ==References====External links== Extraordinary meeting convened on 13 September September 2001, 24:00. The official protocols of 74. Meeting of 4. July, 75th. Meeting of 5 and 6. ==References== Meeting of 6. In July 2001, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Members Edler, Edlinger, Dr. Leiner, Dr. Mertel, Dr. Moser, Oberhaidinger and Schieder are reported to be prevented for today's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that, beyond the agendas for two meetings spent today, there will be a third session, a meeting which serves as an urgent decision. – A written information will still be provided. The Budget Committee will also be convened for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to rise from the seats. [[All present rise from their places.]] Griefing
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7124	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We met at the last meeting before the summer, on 6. July, adopted by each other with the desire to continue our joint work after the summer break in autumn. Unfortunately, this wish has not been fulfilled in a tragic way for two Members of the House. Today we regret the death of our colleague Jakob Pistotnig, who has been a member of the National Council since 1999. ==References====External links== Born in St. Veit aan der Glan on July 24, 1945, he was in addition to his political activity as an independent entrepreneur and a farmer. Before his appointment to the National Council, he was a member of the Carinthian Landtag and Deputy Mayor of his home community. A tragic accident at work only took him a few days after his 56. Birthday unexpected and suddenly torn from our midst. We have lost a very knowledgeable and valued colleague with him. Mr Pistotnig was a representative, who was particularly committed to agriculture and forestry, and who received great recognition in all political groups. In this hour we also mourn for Brunhilde Plank, who was born on 31 December. He died in a tragic way on a mountain tour in Greenland. May. Brunhilde Plank was born in Styria in 1956, was a teacher at a generally-forming higher school for German and French in students and with all her colleagues and colleagues very popular. It has also been elected to the National Council in 1999. Brunhilde Plank was a very socially committed Member, who was particularly distinguished by her work for the disabled. I visited Brunhilde Plank three days before her death in her hometown at the foot of Grimming, and I think I can say that we have lost an all-valued colleague. Our Compassion for Jacob Pistotnig and Brunhilde Plank are particularly valid for their relatives and children. The deceased will remain in the best memory of all members of the House as valued and committed parliamentarians. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a need for all of us at this hour, especially for the victims of the terrorist attacks of the 11th century. September to think in New York and express our compassion. As you know, the Austrian National Council was for the 13th century. In accordance with the Constitutional and Business Regulations, on September, convene a special meeting. The criminal terrorist attacks of the 11th century. September on US facilities that have been victims of thousands of innocent people from around 60 nations – friends from Germany, for example, report that more Germans have been victims of this terrorist attack than in the 1970s by Baader/Meinhof and RAF attacks and crimes – have prompted us to cancel this special meeting, order mourning flag and send a condolences letter to the president of the United States House of Representatives. However, today I would also like to take the first plenary session of the National Council after the summer in order to express our concern, our solidarity and our participation in this joint and official form to the Congress of the United States, the American people and especially to the families and friends of the victims. The events of the 11th century. September – beyond all human dimensions – is of far-reaching importance; they have changed a lot – and they will continue to change a lot. It is my hope that all those on whose shoulders are now responsible for the measures to combat terrorism and for all other measures to be taken will fulfil these difficult tasks with far-sighted vision, wisdom and knowledge of their enormous responsibility. It is my firm hope that the criminal terrorists will not be able to meet with their attacks on people, institutions, buildings and aircraft, as well as principles and fundamental values of freedom-pluralist democracies. It is also my hope that in spite of the immeasurable suffering that occurred on 11 May. September was caused, and despite the bitterness that arose from it – and must be understood – in our world no more hatred and hostility may arise in the future, but that the long-term goal of our joint political and individual efforts may remain the co-existence of people based on justice and peace. In this sense, I can also ask the Austrian population, the tragic events of the 11th century. Not to view it as a struggle of religions or cultures, but as a crime whose authors are researched, to be held responsible and punished. The peaceful living together of people of different origin, different nationality or religion in Austria and elsewhere should not and should not be affected. Our enemy is terrorism – not a religion or a people. I wish us every strength, attention and ability to engage in dialogue for the tasks ahead of us. I'm allowed to ask you for a minute's silent memory. [[All in attendance spend some time in stupid mourning.]] Thank you. Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7223	I assume that the newly appointed Members are already in our midst, so that we can do the fishing immediately. The Federal Electoral Authority has issued a notice that representatives Josef Horn and Harald Trettenbrein have been appointed to the National Council instead of MEPs Brunhilde Plank and Jakob Pistotnig. As the electorate is present and the members of the House are present, I will make the fishing immediately. After the reading of the vow formula and the name call by the female writer, the new ambassadors will have to do their fishing with the words "I vow". I can ask Mrs Haller to read the vow formula and call for the name.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7263	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties." After the call for name, MEPs Josef Horn (SPÖ) and Harald Trattenbrein (Freedom) will make their fishing visit with the words "I praise".
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7293	I very much welcome the new members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7320	The Federal Chancellery has communicated a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government, as follows: Ms. Foreign Minister Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner was represented by Mrs. Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7353	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: Combating recession through offensive growth and employment policies First of all, Mr Gusenbauer. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7383	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Federal Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Even before the terrible attack on the 11th. September on New York and Washington, the international economic data were not necessarily pointing up, and there was a discussion about it before: Do we have a global economic downturn in dealing with a recession or not? At the latest since that time there is also a discussion about: Should we and can we do something about such an economic collapse? In the meantime, I believe, clearly, on the basis of the revised growth forecasts of the Austrian economic research institutes and on the basis of the results of the last summer, that this year unfortunately we will be halving our long-term average economic growth, that for the first time for a long time unemployment will rise again in our country and under some circumstances reach more than 6 percent – and that the prospects or hopes that there will be an international recovery of the economy in the United States of America will unfortunately not be fulfilled, but that one will have to wait for at least a time for this recovery. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of voting in any critical oath today, but of clearly looking at reality and discussing it: What can policy do about it? Our task as a responsible politician, Mr. Finanzminister, is not to determine whether it was on 31 December. December will have minus four or plus two degrees, but the difference between meteorologists and politics is: Meteorologists can only predict the weather – but politics can very well contribute to how the economy and jobs develop. – And that’s exactly what we demand of you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Chancellor said yesterday that one must "hold firm on the goals". – When dealing with this statement, the question arises: What are the objectives? I believe that, in the current economic situation, it must be the most important objective that there is no increase in unemployment in Austria and Europe, because the most important thing for the population is labour as the basis of our value added and our income. In our view, this objective must be based on policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, short-term economic actionism is always warned of. I do not think this is appropriate either, but it is about doing what is necessary for economic policy, which ensures employment in Austria and at the same time upgrading Austria's economic location. One of the possibilities that exist forever is for example to invest in road and rail infrastructure. Values Members of the Federal Government! If you look at the South motorway on a Monday morning, if you look at the West-East connections in Austria and imagine that we are just a few years ahead of the enlargement of the European Union – what we welcome – and if you further imagine what additional traffic growth is going to take place here, you can see: It is not a pointless measure to prefer all the infrastructure projects that we need in preparation for enlargement in order to prepare in time for enlargement, to upgrade our economic location and to provide additional economic impetus. – That would be said, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They discussed the need for a tax reform in 2003 by the coalition parties, a tax reform which may give back small and medium-sized enterprises, but also workers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A tax reform in 2003, if the economy is already developing better under certain circumstances, has little economic impact. – On the other hand, if a tax reform is implemented in 2002, where there may be a poor economic outlook, giving workers more money in 2002 and thus strengthening purchasing power and reintroducing the investment allowance for enterprises for a limited period of time, it can lead to an economically difficult situation in which Austria is better off than other countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! When we look back in history, you have to say: The three major recessions that have occurred since 1970 have survived Austria better than most other European states. And there is also a good reason for this: Each time a recession has threatened, Austria has decided to oppose this with active, pragmatic economic policy. It is not about any dogma being exchanged, it is not about the dispute of economic ideologies, it is about Austria and our jobs. And there is pragmatism appropriate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But not only can we do something about infrastructure and taxation – which, by the way, is the highest we have to record in the course of history in our country – but there is also a third area that is very crucial. Many, including international economic researchers, have now come to the view that, in addition to having a budget deficit or not – which is, of course, a relevant question – it is increasingly crucial how much the future rate of a national budget is marked. The future rate reflects what we are spending, but not for the security of stocks, but for education, research and development, and for all those areas of expenditure that are able to secure growth in a sustainable way. Mr Finanzminister! You would not throw the money out of the window if you invested more money in our education in an economically difficult situation, because that would significantly stabilise the future capacity of our country and also the economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One of the most important issues in dealing with economic difficulties is ultimately the signal effect, psychology, the stabilisation of expectations in the population. If the objective data is not good, I believe that it is not a contribution to stabilizing expectations, but rather to the contrary: If the data are clearly on the table, if it is clear that economic policy can influence economic development, then only through an active economic policy will there be a calming of the population, a stabilisation of expectations. Therefore, Mr Finanzminister, I would like to invite you not to give any comfort to the situation, but to stimulate economic activity within the framework of your opportunities, so that Austria, like the past, will be better off than other European countries and will be harmed by our labour market. The future capacity of our businesses and full employment in our country are crucial as the basis of value added. – This must be our main objective, and other objectives must be abandoned, Minister of Finance. We would like to invite you to this discussion today, very warmly.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7512	Mr Bartenstein spoke on an opinion on the subject of the current hour. His speaking time is also 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7534	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen at the Intergovernmental Bank! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Klubobmann and President Gusenbauer! You have rightly mentioned in your statements the importance of psychology for economic life, for economic development. It also says this to the editor-in-chief of the press, Dr. Unterberger, today in an editorial. He speaks of the old wisdom that economics is always highly a product of psychology. Therefore, nothing is easier than to bring about a crisis. That is why I would like to ask you: Is it necessary, is it appropriate, is it wise to raise a crisis as you do? And that's what you're doing! They put this current hour under the title "Fighting the Recession". You yourself have spoken of the recession as being certain at your club. The Lord Deputy Clubobmann Cap confirmed this yesterday in a broadcast. Nothing of all is true. Nothing of all is true. Austria is not on the verge of, let alone in a recession, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Instead of the meteorologists you have tried, let me try the economics scientists. Economics then speaks of a recession when growth is down in two consecutive quarters, so there is a minus growth. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We're far away from that. The latest forecasts for Austria for 2001 were 1,7 percent growth, the other Institute forecast a growth of 2 percent. It may and will already be so that in the next few days the forecasts will be revised by a few tenths down; I assume it will be about 1.5 percent. But the economic researchers tell us that next year growth can rise by about half a percentage point. – So no talk of minus growth, no talk of recession! Mr Gusenbauer! I'm appealing to Your political responsibility, which you have shown in the last few days on the security of our country together with your group, with your party: Do this also in terms of economic policy, do so also in terms of economic development! In fact, economic development does not stimulate enthusiasm. We have a damped economy, and They say quite right that even before the terrible terrorist attacks of the 11th. September the world economy was in a not exactly rosy constitution, and of course there are the events of the 11th. One more on September. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In this phase, therefore, there is no need for bad weather prophesies – meteorology – and there is no need for a critical oath, there is no need for pessimists, but a realistic optimism, and this is what this government puts in the foreground. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer! They have rightly spoken of the importance of future policy, of the future ratio that must be recognizable in the policies of a country and a government. Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance, will address this even more, but I believe that we have a lot to show in terms of research and development, in terms of education policy. No government has previously spent so much money on these areas, and in both areas – education policy on the one hand, research and development policy on the other – we have a plus of 7 billion schilling each within a three-year period as regards government expenditure. And this is very remarkable, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What can Austria do to get as close a little off the international economic trend as possible to be a little better than the others? That we can only be a little better that we are embedded in a global economy, that is in a country with an export rate of 33 to 34 percent of the gross domestic product, which is of course in a country that is enjoying 200 billion schilling and more, Mrs. State Secretary, tourism revenue from foreigners. A complete disconnection can and will not exist. But we can try to be a few tenths better than the others. It is already remarkable in this context that Austria is currently about 0.4 to 0.5 percent better than our large German neighbor. In its last forecast, the International Monetary Fund says that there is only expected to be 0.9 percent growth in 2001. As we have already said, it will be about 1.5 percent, and we can rightly be proud of this difference, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's about active location policy. It is about active structural policy. It's about avoiding old recipes. I believe that no one in our country should support old recipes that were there: deficit-spending. On the one hand, this has brought little for the economy, for growth, but on the other hand it has certainly brought one, namely very, very high public debt, in which we are still partly chewing today. It's already more important to have a location policy. For example, it is important that we should liberalise the electricity markets from 1st century onwards, both consumers and the economy of this country. October this year – from next Monday – relieves us of creating an active location competition for Austria. The economic researchers tell us how important it is for Austria to have its unit labour costs – a very crucial competitive factor! – could be reduced by no less than 6 percent in a single year. This was possible because we could increase productivity in the productive sectors of our economy by 8.4 percent in a single year. This is local policy, which is, moreover, highly designed and supported by the social partners. This is the policy that can bring us a little above the average of the other competitive countries in these difficult phases of a dampened economy, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, let me say two or three more sentences on the labour market. Here too, with realistic assessment of the fact that we currently have about 14 000 to 15 000 unemployed per month more than in the same period of the previous year, we can see that we are the number three in Europe. Only Dutch and Luxembourg are better. As far as the unemployment rate is concerned, I am going to proceed with the European method of accounting, Mr Gusenbauer. We have been in the European Union since 1995, and I therefore allow myself to quote the parameters there. After that, our unemployment rate is 3.8%. We are committed to an active labour market policy, and Mr Grasser and I agreed on all the budget talks: We want to maintain expenditure on active labour market policies at a consistently high level, namely at 11.1 billion schilling, and so it is also foreseen in the 2001 budget and in the 2002 budget. The government can therefore point out that although we currently have around 15 000 unemployed people more than in the previous year, by 20 000 unemployed people less than at the time we took over responsibility. For example, the government can refer to a record workforce. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At present there are more than 14,000 employees in the annual period, but compared to the start of our government team under Chancellor Schüssel and Vice-Cancellor Riess-Passer, there are no fewer than 50,000 employees. And that is also something that can be mentioned here with satisfaction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is very important to me to be able to conclude that we are actively and successfully pursuing policies for the disadvantaged groups in our labour market: for the young, for the elderly, also for women. The increase in employment rates is almost exclusively due to more women in employment, and we have also been able to integrate legal foreigners in Austria better than before into the labour market. We want to spend two thirds of the resources for active labour market policy on qualification in the future, and we also want to spend 500 million schilling annually – and today an initiative proposal for the Youth Training Security Act – for the apprentices of this country, for the young people who need apprenticeships. And we also want to continue to have an AMS that operates active labour market policy by currently having around 26 000 Austrians in training, 3 800 more than before the year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The international economic development is indeed not pleasing to us either, but we will continue a national structural policy which is suitable to counter it with all the consequence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7661	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the discussion in the current hour is limited to 5 minutes. This is what Mr Vergebnissch has to say. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7688	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! "For the first time in years, mass income has been falling, and for the first time for years the number of unemployed has increased again, and for the first time for years large corporations like Philips have been discharged" – I add: Libro and others – "in large-scale employees, for the first time inflation is flickering, with the highest tax rate and the lowest economic growth for a long time; Zero deficit and tax reform are seriously threatened..." – So Christian Ortner in the "Forum" of the "FORMAT", week 35. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not about refusing reality, but it is not about a healthful prayer of the state of the Austrian economy and the labour market. The forecasts say one thing very clearly – and we will be able to prove it again on Friday: Growth is getting weaker, and there is a danger, in particular, that growth will stagnate in the third and fourth quarters. Ladies and gentlemen! Unemployment is increasing; this too can be proved. All those who keep taking the U.S. economic engine into their mouths were reminded that yesterday the Conference Board announced that the American consumer behaviour had changed considerably compared to the previous month that consumption had decreased extremely. This is a clear sign that America is not the engine for the European economy, for the Austrian economy. It is also crucial for development in its own country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact – and this is also evidenced by figures from the Chamber of Commerce and Economic Researchers – that we can see a restraint in the construction industry in road and rail construction. You will certainly say again: There's enough money! Ladies and gentlemen! Who actually prevents us from using this money productively and actually applying infrastructure investments, which are not consumer investments, in order to cope with rising unemployment in the construction industry? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why are we not able to secure appropriate orders for small and medium-sized construction companies in the field of renovation, thermal insulation, so that what they feel, namely, is a declining willingness to invest in many areas of the countries and communities? This declining willingness to invest came through the tax rate of this Federal Government, and precisely these companies need employment. This applies not only to the construction industry, but also to the entire economy of our country, ladies and gentlemen. The Federal Minister also spoke about the labour market. The fact is that five jobseekers come to an open position today. This cannot be answered in the form we have experienced a few weeks ago, that we are talking about a strengthening of the rules on visibility. There is a lack of jobs – and not an intensification of the rules on availability! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As positive as the time may be for the tourism industry: The fact is that we have seen an increase in employment on the one hand, but at the same time an increase in unemployment in this sector. Federal Minister! This is, as economic researchers also confirm, the result of an overwhelming reception of seasonals, which is leading to unemployment. There too, it is necessary to create work and not to allow more seasonals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In these days it is legitimate to talk about security often. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, security includes the workplace, social security, open access to education and the preservation of our values. Therefore, Mr Federal Minister, I do not understand your statement that the original vote of the ÖGB is an attack on the site of Austria at all. If you are at risk of social security, you will be attacking Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Lively welcome to the SPÖ and to the Greens.]] We are not talking about a crisis, but I think it is time to act. We need an active labour market policy and we do not need the AMS to clean up the budget. We need more investment, and we also need more initiatives for lifelong education. It's interesting: A week ago, you planned 100 million for apprenticeship training. However, because you know that Social Democracy is submitting a proposal for youth employment, today you come up with an initiative that provides for 500 million. That's where action is announced! [[The red lamb flashes on the speaker's sleeve.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, At the end of this year, we do not need a zero deficit and a deficit on investment, a deficit in the labour market – we need a future! That is necessary, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7795	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Walter Tancsits. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7819	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! A few comments were made on the economic debate and the debate on the economic-invigorating measures decided by the Council of Ministers three weeks ago. We want to oppose the demands of Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Vergestnitsch to re-indebted from the beginning a clear no. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It was the policy of non-re-indebtedness that has created us for a year and a half, especially in the first year of "new governance" that was created by which we can set reasonable economic and labour market impulses today. It was indeed the upturn which started with February 2000 and which today leaves us back to 36 000 business start-ups, 5 percent real growth, in the annual average of 50,000 employees – that is the very serious number that the Minister has called; in comparison with February 2000 to August 2001, there are 179,000 more jobs. Of course, we have a flattening of growth in the last half of the year, but by no means a recession – for various reasons, which are not just global. Germany keyword: Red-green didn't make the upswing. Building economics keyword: Due to a saturation of the housing market at the lowest prices since 1980 – but we will certainly debate that another time – we have little investment in new housing construction. I would like to invite you to join us this autumn, precisely on the basis of the last remarks you have made, that you are striving to invest in ecology and the like, if we reduce the reinvestment of the public to a reasonable amount of time and free investments in the rental sector if we free them from the narrow legal corset of the MRG. Mr Gusenbauer has become known for the deficit-spending and in his interesting meteorology comparison also on the plan economy. I think you're wrong with Keynes. Keynes has always understood Deficit-spending in such a way that in good times it is saved so that in bad times impulses can be set, and not that it is made planless and out of principle debt. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, I would like to say from your speech that you will subsequently recognise and underline the accuracy of our policy, in the year 2000, in the harsh upswing phase, in making savings. Because of this upholstery we can set impulses. New debt would be a boost to international financial markets. However, we want to put impulses in Austria's economy and in Austria's jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And that can be seen: In addition to 7 billion schilling in research and development, 7 billion schilling more educational expenditure, in infrastructure 5.2, and at the end of the day, I would also like to remind you of the childcare allowance, whose social accuracy nobody seriously disputes, but its economic correctness, namely to invest 9 billion schilling in purchasing power at the right time, benefits us today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're not going to have a recession. We stay with our course to strive for full employment – without the burden of future generations, that is, full employment without re-indebtedness.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7903	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7925	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear gentlemen on the government bank! It's hard, against the background of the events of the 11th. To follow the statements made by the Federal President of the SPÖ here on September 2001. It is true that there has already been economic losses before these events, certainly, but you have not even mentioned in your speech that the events of the 11. September 2001 not only caused great human suffering, but, of course, it also has to be feared of economic consequences, up to the Austrian airline and the like. If you're here at the speaker's desk to make all this numbering and meteorological comparisons, that might be your view of things. I would have liked the SPÖ, which has partly acted as a fundamental opposition in recent months, to share responsibility. Now, if I think back, How do the sanctions imposed by the EU on Austria seem to be? What is meant by an ÖGB demonstration, if you want to carry responsibility, as you say again and again? I would have wished the SPÖ in its time of government the economic data we have today. We do not have 300 000 unemployed today, but much less. It is also too much for us to do, but there are many measures being taken to improve them. And what I don't understand at all is when the chief employee representative of this Republic, the President of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, comes out and shows a sick man who has no responsibility whatsoever. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] I invite you, Mr ÖGB President: Use...! – You have spoken of a reduction in mass income, but for some of your representatives, namely ÖGB officials, there has been legendary income improvements as we know. [[Abg. That's not what I said! I quote!]] You mustn't miss that! You mustn't be blind on both eyes. [[Abg. I've been quoting!]] Mr President. If you were today the top representative of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and thus of Austrian workers, you would use your strength to make an active contribution to the SPÖ and ÖGB for a healthy Austrian labour and social policy. And I miss that. They have a high level of competence in labour policy issues, but it is operated in an incomprehensible way passive resistance. I'd like you to be active. And from your point of view, it is quite wrong to note that there is an initiative proposal for youth employment. There the SPÖ is even offended! It should be very happy to support these requests! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In all cases, you must admit that the employment situation is better than two years ago. You have initiated the original vote to ultimately divert from the recent post scandals. After Rechberger it was claimed that such a thing will never happen again. Then there was the next scandal of this kind, and now there was that at the post office. You, Mr President Vergestnich, are one who then withdraws from office and a deputy comes to speak, which I would strongly recommend to attend an invoice or wage tax rate. I can only say: This government will also deal with the difficult future tasks of the Employment Plan, on the important issue of the export economy, because one third of Austria's jobs depend on export. These are tasks that we should devote ourselves to, and I would like to cordially invite the ÖGB Presidents and his group to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7997	The next speaker is Mr Kogler. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8018	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the current situation, it would be desirable to stay in a contentive debate on the possibilities of economic policy – in this case, of course, in Austria – and not to fall into polemics immediately, Mr Gaugg, with all the problems of the post-union trade union. If previous speakers have alluded to the indicators of global recession or even non-recessions, that was a bit small in this place and in this situation. Let us come to the debate and soon exchange the arguments. If we assume that we need economics, we will not get very far, what exactly is a recession or not, because science offers guidance, but the political language has long been independent for good and bad reasons. That is why I do not quite see why the government bank is trying, so to speak, to signal that what has been done anyway and is its own ideology is still right. So a little flexibility can already be demanded, and there are still possibilities to stay in your Jargon, so-called homework. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] - I'll be right back to that. I can now, because the debate has gone in the direction, whether we are in a recession at least globally, or not, the rather unwarranted, I hope at least to quote "economist" and also to present the cover sheet to you. The word "recession" has been rather glaringly printed on the title page, but not only after 11. ==References====External links== August 2001. The "Economist" comments on this title sheet with the words: "People prefer not to use the word." – Namely "recession." – "But the fact is" – now in German translation – that the world economy is in a recession, in a special – to discuss it we do not have time – in which certain causes arise at the same time that are new in this constellation. And that's why I really don't see a reason for beautiful speeches. The fact is that the three major economic centres in the world, North America, Europe and Japan, have a corresponding decline. - That's right. What can be done now? – It is not true that the government is guilty of these circumstances – no one claims that either. It would be totally missing from the opposition to stand here and say: Pui devil, everything by the government! – This cannot be done seriously in a intertwined world economy, even if, as in Austria, one moves in a small open economy, which Mr Minister mentioned earlier. That is why it would be useful – which has so far been completely isolated – to take into account what can be done at European level and in the European context. There are a lot of things there, and of course the government can already occur. What would be possible? – It would have to be possible, for example, to stick to the so-called Stability Pact, which represents a very close corset and may well be suitable for making structural targets for recovery phases. This corresponds roughly to the domestic debate and philosophy. We are still of the opinion that the zero deficit, as it is promoted here, is explicitly raising a replacement religion to the podcast, so to speak, and that it is honoured to take action as truly serious. One even takes this as the pretext not to do it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So: Whether we have plus 0.2 or minus 0.4 – to change the temperatures to the percentage of the budget deficit – will not matter. If you don't mind, Mr Finanzminister, because you're getting away with a marketing gag, that would, I believe, be a bad playing capital for the rest of the Austrians. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It cannot be the case that such keywords are used to occupy the political stage and that appropriate meaningful measures are, so to speak, goneideologised. They are in real danger of becoming the gifted beautiful speaker as a bubble proclaimer. Take this seriously, because a lasting policy will have to take these criteria into account!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8099	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8121	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I should like to say to Mr Kogler: This federal government has every flexibility, but it has no flexibility when it comes to saying that Austria is in a recession. Austria is not in a recession, Europe is not in a recession, but we have a weakening of growth, which is undisputed, which is not to be debated away. It's just a matter of telling you the following: In a recession, an economy is shrinking. – Austria’s economy is growing by about 1.5 percent this year. In a recession, there is a high level of unemployment. – Austria has a record employment rate of more than 3.2 million people in employment this year. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In a recession, there are fewer business start-ups. – Austria will have a record year at the start-up this year; it is almost 30 000 newly founded companies. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In a recession you have a flat export curve. – Austria will have a plus on exports this year. On the record year 2000, one more plus of about 6 percent is added. Ladies and gentlemen! The year 2000 was an absolute record year for the Austrian economy – we were almost on the boom of the high economy – and therefore it was right to decide in 2000 to consolidate the budget, in order to put the finances of our Republic in order. The fact that we have a significant weakening of our economy this year is no question. The fact that we all wish for new record years in the economy is completely clear. We have to note that the global economy is that the economy in America, that the economy in Japan is experiencing a significant weakening and that the terrorist attacks have significantly deteriorated this situation again. That's a fact we have to live with. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out the following: If one compares the 1999 economic data for which the previous government held responsibility with that of the "so weak" year 2001 from the point of view of the opposition, it is noted that the gross domestic product is now – in the "weak" year 2001 – 216 million higher. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: billions!]] 216 billion, thanks many times! 216 billion more in value added. It is also noted that private consumption has increased significantly, that investment has increased by 47 billion schilling, that the number of persons employed is 30 000 above that of 1999 and that the number of unemployed is nearly 10 000 lower than in 1999 and that the number of business start-ups has increased considerably. That is, the year 2001 – from your point of view a weak, a recessive year – is clearly a much better marketing year than any of the last five years of your government activity! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you see at the same time that Austria, the small Austria, is better than Germany, better than America, better than Japan, better than Italy, you really have to say: Yes, we take the economic situation very seriously! We don't want to trade anything, but we have everything against it when it's felt bad when it's spoken badly where there's no recession. We better work together on an upswing, and contribute to that! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We'll do that. We, Federal Chancellor, Deputy Chancellor, invited the social partners two weeks ago, we invited all economic researchers. And every economic researcher – whether he's hot with Kramer, Lehner, Felder, Fresh, Neck, Countryman or Breuss – has invited some others, everyone has said: We must stick to the Stability and Growth Pact, we must stick to the consolidation course of this federal government, because this is a question of credibility for the economic location of Europe and a question of credibility for the new single currency. That is why it is a wise course that we do not try to pursue economic policy with instruments of the past, namely debt policy. We want to go on the path of an offensive growth and employment policy, a consolidation of the budget and structural policy considerations that are here: In Austria, more money is spent on research and development than ever before – I am at the end – more money for education, more money for infrastructure. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] And we will achieve two goals at the same time: good government finances and a very good labour market with high employment, high income and prosperity for the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8204	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Excuse me, honourable Member, I was wrong. Mrs Silhavy is now speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8252	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The horrendous terrorist attacks in the USA have caused deep distress, grief, compassion, but also fear and, as I suppose, a lot of people to think about – disturbing feelings that also affect our behavior. For example, American consumer confidence should have fallen to 1990 levels. The economic impact of this can be imagined by any layman. I do not want to address various economic forecasts, ladies and gentlemen, but I would like to say one thing here: Social justice, equal opportunities and thus social security are still the most effective prevention against aggression and thus the most peaceful and best means for a peaceful relationship between people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And since, ladies and gentlemen of this Federal Government, the High House, politics, including Austrian politics, is required. Ladies and gentlemen! The economic growth figures have already been revised down this year in the first half of the year. Gentlemen of the Federal Government, you must agree which numbers are valid: Minister Bartenstein spoke of 1.7 percent growth, but the Minister of Finance of 1.5 percent. Perhaps you can give us information about which numbers are your basis. Minister Bartenstein also stated that the number of unemployed has increased in the last few months: more than 15,000 unemployed compared to the previous year or an increase of 9.8 percent. Federal Minister! We will have to expect double-digit growth in unemployment over the next few months. I think you have already been asked to consider a new way in your policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially dramatic, ladies and gentlemen, is the development in the apprenticeship market: a 14.7 percent increase compared with the previous year. And in numbers: There are currently about 11,000 people who do not have a teaching centre, including the youth unemployment benefit workers, but there are only 4,000 open apprenticeships. Federal Minister! I have a Council of Ministers lecture here on 4. September 2001, and I quote from it: "The Youth Training Assurance Act, which was limited by the end of 2001, will be extended by initiative application in Parliament in autumn. A total of up to 100 million courses will be completed. S. provided." - Quote. "100 million schillings" so it was called 4th. September, today I heard "500 million schilling", as is required in our own initiative proposal. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] I hope I got you right. I would be very pleased if you were to record our demands here and actually implement them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Just as it makes sense to pursue an anticyclic economic policy, we also need a counter-tax labour market policy in employment policy. Federal Minister! The funds of active labour market policy have been cut by a lot in the 2002 Federal estimates. In 2001, we have 8.1 billion schilling available, and in 2002 there will only be more than 7.5 billion schilling, and that, as has been said, in the case of unemployment, which has already caused double-digit growth rates to be feared. Federal Minister! They are called on not to remove funds from active labour market policies. You know, within three years, you will withdraw 34 billion schilling from active or total labour market and employment policies, and at the same time you will consider taking measures that punish people for this fate by changing the rules of visibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a time-consuming coincidence that at the same time the social report of the churches is discussed in our state, an ÖGB original vote takes place and a popular desire is prepared for the social state. Ladies and gentlemen! These are truly signals, the You can't overlook, but you need to hear. I'm looking for you: Rethink your policy! As I said, Social justice and social compensation are still the best guarantees of peace.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8358	Now, Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8380	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If one follows the previous course of this debate, one could almost get the impression that the opposition and the government parties are talking here about two different countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You have a pink glasses on it!]] The country we are talking about here still has an economic growth of about 1.7 percent. [[Call the SPÖ: Under the average!]] - Is that recession? Is the crisis? This country records an employment record of 3.2 million people who have never been in employment. This country is able to press the new debt even now, as it looks for this year, to 0.6 percent instead of planned 0.75 percent. The country, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about here, is our home country Austria and is governed by a black and blue coalition thanks to God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But there are also very interesting comparisons with other countries. Take Germany: 7.9 percent unemployed, already below 1 percent, even below 0.9 percent economic growth, 2 percent instead of planned 1.5 percent new debt. You see from this example, ladies and gentlemen, that new debts do not automatically create new jobs. I think one can already conclude from this comparison of numbers that the times of the misinterpretation of John Maynard Keynes, which Kreisky has constantly carried out, are finally over. We welcome the fact that this country – and this can be read by the numbers – is now governed by bowls and Riess-passers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, economic development is not only based on figures and facts. It plays emotional factors, it plays a big role in moods. All the more problematic is what you do about the opposition here in the admittedly weakened economy: They paint the devil on the wall, lead a cricketede, paint a situation on the wall that does not exist in this form. But because the whole thing is also dependent on impulses and moods, the Federal Government has responded very well: It has created a special action for export. It has not cut down the resources of active labour market policy, as you have said, Mrs Colleague, – there are still 11.1 billion schilling available for active labour market policies, both this year and next year – and 7 billion shillings will be invested in the education sector you are demanding for over the next three years. So you're running into completely open doors here, which we didn't just open when you asked for it. The research rate will be increased, additional investments in infrastructure of 5.2 billion schilling will be made, and – an important impulse – the tax and tax rate will be reduced, the additional wage costs will be reduced. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is not because we have a crisis, but because we want to prevent crises and make it harder for people like you to address such crises. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If we are already with quotations, ladies and gentlemen: You can quote Rainer – and know where he is politically – but you can also quote Unterberger from today's "Press", the closing point where he asks: "... is some of them playing a cynical political game here? Because the more often the citizens are startled with a cry for crisis, the more secure this crisis will actually occur. Some of them will surely long for." [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Nothing to add to this!]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8468	The next speaker is Mr Trattner. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8489	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It is a pity that, even in times like this, if the world is not shaken by terrorist attacks, the Social Democrats are not willing to take note of figures that correspond to the truth, but to let everything go into a "bad coloring". Mr Vergestnich said that mass incomes had risen as low in 2000 as they have never been before. [[Abg. Parnigoni: He quoted!]] It is stated in the statistics that mass income rose by 1.7 percent in 2000, while they rose by only 0.9 percent in 1997. In other words, they rose by almost double in 2000 compared to 1997. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With regard to the way in which one deals with economic factors or with definitions – such as terms such as "growth" or "recession", I have to make it clear here: What's recession? – Recession is a shrinking economy! But the Austrian economy is still growing – God is Thanks to her, she continues to grow; it would also be better for us to grow stronger. Klubobmann Gusenbauer has just said that he calls on the government to take action: first of all in the area of investment in infrastructure, construction investment, and second in order to increase purchasing power. If you read a little bit into the matter, deal with the work of the Federal Government, you will find: This Federal Government, with its take-up a year and a half ago, has started a path towards zero budget deficit. It has succeeded in making available for the year 2002 funds for infrastructure investment in the order of 34.2 billion schilling, which compared with the year 1999 when you made the Minister of Finance of the SPÖ, is an increase of 5.2 billion schilling. In addition, additional funds will be made available in the area of the construction offensive in the Federal Road Construction for 2001, 2003 amounting to 2.1 billion Schilling, 850 million Schilling will be provided in the area of tunnel safety, and 825 million Schilling will be made available in the area of construction projects for historical objects. The Federal Government is therefore taking measures in the field of investment, construction and infrastructure investments, which do not need to be compared. This is a lot more than you've ever done in your government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They also say that the purchasing power is increased. – The Federal Government has put in place measures to increase purchasing power. The Federal Government has set up a measure with the childcare allowance, through which alone 9 billion Schilling – 9 billion Schilling! – are made available to the Austrian families who, of course, have a positive impact on purchasing power and consumption. They also say again and again that the zero budget deficit should be eliminated. But this is the very mistake you have always faced, because you have pursued a government policy of debt, but you have still experienced a high unemployment rate and a lower economic growth. Germany is also a good example in this context: There is a red-green government at work, which is driving the unemployment rate in Germany at high altitudes. Where is the reduction to 3.5 million unemployed who promised Schröder? – To 3.5 million he wanted to reduce the number. Unfortunately, it will again exceed the 4 million. The measures of the German Federal Government – the introduction of an eco-tax, regulations in the rental law, which have led to a reduction in the construction projects of a size of 10 percent – have caused huge damage to the Federal Republic of Germany. The comparisons between Austria and Germany simply speak for themselves: We have a higher economic growth, an economic growth which is twice as high as that in Germany, we have a much lower unemployment rate, we have a higher investment rate, we have increases in exports and more so. We don't need to be ashamed of our numbers, but you should go inside and say: The current situation is a bit difficult, but the figures in Austria are good. We're on the right path! – This should not be negatively influenced by a slender step, but you should make a national epaulment together with the Federal Government so that this difficult situation can also be overcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8541	I am now going to let the vote be taken because we have some formal votes to take. Mrs Glawischnig. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8565	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I can already imagine that it would be more pleasant for the government parties if the opposition were to stand here and join in the song of praise and prize: Thank God we have a black and blue government, and thank God we have Federal Chancellor Schüssel and Vice Chancellor Riess-Passer! – But I think we should keep a little bit of soberness on the starting point of this whole discussion and not ignore a certain one, we say, numerical and factual orientation. Again very briefly to the accusation of the Krisaryede: I've been told again before: We have never had a recession since the 1950s, and it has always been talking about crises and economic difficulties when the economic data have shown down. And that is why it will probably be allowed to talk about economic pressure and take action in such a situation that we now have to deal with. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] – That’s what we want, but you obviously don’t want it – that’s childish! Secondly, Recession – there are new ones here too, I say once again, forms of definition and new attempts to grasp this concept. In the meantime, "recession" is also spoken of when the gross domestic product falls two quarters in a row. – This only as a small excursion from economics; Alexander Van der Bellen once again pointed this out. – And that is why we now want to talk about additional measures. All your additional measures, which you have repeated today, are old hats, and that is why we have some concern to express here. I would like to sum this up again: It has now been said three times that the "famous" child money increases the net income available. – Children’s money does not even compensate for what, on the other hand, has been distributed on tax increases by this black and blue government so to speak! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And it reduces the female employment rate, and I personally consider it extremely worrying from a female and from an economic point of view. – So the child money is not an economic measure, really not! Education and research: They call education and research every time, but that doesn't make it true. Only because you compare the current figures with those of disaster years, and not with a current OECD value to which we want to move, will it not become more true. The fact is that: We have a massive saving behind us in this area. Everyone feels this when he goes to school when he goes to college: There are fewer apprenticeships, there are savings plans for study institutions, students have to pay tuition fees. – So where are the additional expenditure in the field of education? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Every fourth one gets a scholarship!]] They always compare this with data from disaster years and are not based on OECD data. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We generally welcome additional expenditure and want Austria to finally move at the level that other countries have identified. Here in Austria, we are moving in the research and development field with the ratio of 1.65 percent really beyond the OECD average of 2.2 percent; in Finland as one of the leading countries in this field, this ratio is 3.3 percent. They are obviously assumed by the coalition parties that it comes somewhere that this may add to the economy. – However, the realistic basis for such wishes is not understandable! The Federal Government itself is investing nothing in this area! That must also be said, and we also criticize it massively! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the proposal for infrastructure investment – I will then come to speak briefly on our proposals – for rail and road. What seriously disturbs me as an environmental politician: The first thing that comes back to this is a recipe from the 1970s, namely: Let's keep building roads! – This proposal, also on the part of the SPÖ, is annoying me! Look You're looking at what "employment efficiency" road construction has! – Work for machines, but not for people! Do we invest in areas such as public transport, thermal insulation or old house renovation? There are quotas of up to ten, as a result of employment efficiency, compared to a continuation of road development! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] It would be purely economic sense to invest elsewhere. What also bothers me as a young and innovative politician: no investing in telecommunications facilities, in broadband technologies! – The motorways of the future are digital – and not environmentally destructive projects in nature! However, this insight is entirely based on your statements regarding the future compatibility/futureability of your economic policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm pretty sure: You from ÖVP and FPÖ are so inflexible in this area of economic policy and are trying to sell these old measures to this old hats so ambitious now because you simply don't want to get rid of your fetish zero deficit. It is not only harmful, but simply pointless to continue. We from the Greens want to come out of this economic burden to a reasonable, sustainable economic policy in Austria. Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Keep making debt!]] 10.2 2
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8664	That's what I'm going to tell you about the current hour. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8686	With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, I can refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9104	In accordance with Article 74a of the Rules of Procedure, the Greens' Club requested urgent consideration of the self-employed motion 502/A (E) of the Members of Parliament for the position of the Federal Government on the requirements of the original ÖGB vote. Following the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, this urgent request will be made after completion of the agenda of the meeting, but at the latest at 3 p.m., i.e. at 3 p.m.. Delegation of items 2 and 3 from the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9128	At the President's sitting we agreed that if there is a urgent request or a urgent request, we should refrain from voting on points 2 and 3 of today's agenda, i.e. to withdraw it from the agenda so that we can complete our programme in good time. In this sense, according to § 49 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, Agenda items 2 and 3, which are the reports of the Court of Auditors' Committee on the Court of Auditors' Activity Report (III-73 of the Supplements) of the Court of Auditors for the 1999 administrative year and the special report (III-92 of the Supplements) on banking supervision. Such a procedure shall require a decision of the National Council of a two-thirds majority. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal for the second and third items of the agenda to give an appropriate sign. – I note that this was decided unanimously. That means that points 2 and 3 are removed from the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9174	We are going into the new agenda. In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates as follows: In the case of a reduction in the agenda – as has now been done – a day block time of six "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 117 minutes, liberals and ÖVPs per 87 minutes, Green 69 minutes, with a view to the debate on Agenda item 1 four hours within this speaking time. The Hoge Haus also has to be found. On the other hand, are there any objections? – Since this is not the case, it is unanimously defined. 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 GoG on the subject: "For security and peace – against the networks of terror"
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9220	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item: Statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor. Following these statements, a debate will be held in accordance with a request from all four political groups. On this particular point, we have agreed, on a voluntary basis, but binding basis, that by 1 p.m. we shall proceed as follows: The Federal Chancellor does not speak for more than 15 minutes, the Vice-Chancellor, then one speaker of each group with a speaking time of 15 minutes, then another speaker with 10 minutes each. – If desired, two replicas are planned from the government bank by 5 minutes each. A third round of speakers will then be followed, with the time available until 1 p.m. to the four political groups at the same time. There is also agreement that in relation to actual corrections per group, we will no longer make more than an actual correction during this debate. After 1 p.m., the further procedure is based on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure – without additional agreements. Having said this, I can now give the floor to the Federal Chancellor. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9257	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank the House for the worthy commemoration at the beginning of this sitting. The last two weeks have nothing to do with our grief, our grief, and our shock, which we are on the 11th. In the face of the terrible terrorist attacks on the two towers of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, on September 1, the United States and the United States. Of course, our compassion is primarily for the 7,000 victims and their families. This has actually been an attack, a global attack. As Mr Fischer has already said, Citizens from 60 nations – including hundreds of Europeans – and people of all religious groups are among the victims. The problem is also global, because sometime in the USA, in Manhattan, many have been on the World Trade Center or know someone who worked there. This distress is real – and it unites us. We all felt a deal with the Americans, but also in Europe and here in Austria. At this point I would also like to thank my colleagues in the government who, at night after this has happened, were immediately available and took all the necessary steps. But I would also like to pay tribute to the parliamentarians and express my recognition. I start with Alfred Gusenbauer and Josef Cap, who, as representatives of the strongest group in the House, have agreed here together with Professor Van der Bellen to take unusual steps – including business regulations – so that we can act. My thanks also apply to Susanne Riess-Passer and Peter Westenthaler, as well as to our clubman Andreas Khol, who really showed us that Austria is able to act together in a difficult situation. I would also like to thank the social partners who, a few hours after the attack, have discussed with the economic researchers and with us what we can do. I would also like to thank the representatives of the various religious communities in Austria who, together with us, have thought of the victims on the Europe-wide day of mourning, on Friday after the attack. Many Austrians today wonder: How about us? What does that mean to us? Are we safe in our country? Can we travel? Where can we travel? Are other attacks possible? What will the response of the international community be like? – These are many vital and real questions. We admit that you often have more questions than answers. Let us therefore try to draw some conclusions from it. First of all, the bitter realization: The most terrible weapon is still the human being, for the perpetrators had little more than paper knife and thus have executed incredible, insurmountable. A victim number of more than 7,000 means eradicating the population of a small town within a few seconds. It also forces us to rethink in some things. The security we have accepted as guaranteed is not so sure. There are also the following questions: What is a new, modern form of solidarity in such a changed situation? What is safety worth to us – not only but also in a material sense? What price are we willing to pay for security, for human security? Good policy, I think, has the task here, above all, of taking fear, of responding to the concerns correctly, of meeting the right tone. I believe that we must honestly say that there can be no 100% security in our time, but that in Austria we want to do the best possible – in Austria, around Austria and also internationally – so that there can be as much security as possible for us, for our citizens, but also globally. At this point I would like to thank those who have taken care of it – and this is a great merit that cannot be estimated to be high enough, even if some take it for granted – that Austria has become one of the safest countries in the world. These are first and foremost our police and gendarmen, who often use their psyche, their health and often their lives for our safety. We owe them thanks and respect! [[General condolences.]] The same applies to the Austrian army, which in a difficult time, sometimes not with perfect equipment, the service at the border and the disaster protection inwards. It is not at all high enough to assess how to achieve maximum efficiency by means of small resources. Therefore, thanks and respect to all those who give security here! [[General condolences.]] The same applies to the countless volunteers who are present in various associations, whether the Red Cross, or fire brigade, on the issues of often underestimated disaster protection. We will make massive efforts in this area over the next few weeks – I promise – to coordinate and question whether there are gaps in disaster protection, whether we can do something else. In addition, however, this crisis, this critical situation, has shown that Europe and cooperation across the Atlantic work. It has been shown that the European Central Bank has provided €100 billion in liquidity aid within hours of two days. This is a sum that constitutes the double Austrian annual budget. Within a few days, the external, financial, transport, internal, judicial and European Councils have met and have unanimously found clear words, namely, a condemnation of terror in all its types, the realization that we need tough countermeasures to our protection and, at the same time, the awareness – this also applies to us Austrians – where we stand. If we have to decide between the perpetrators and the victims, we are always on the side of the victims as a developed democratic country committed to human rights. [[General condolences.]] The same applies when terror versus peaceful efforts stand – then Austria is sure that Europe, that democrats are committed to peace, but also a peace that knows how to defend itself when terror undermines it. And if fear versus hope stands, then we are called to give hope. That means for us Austrian solidarity with the victims, commonness in the goals, mourning with the Americans. Now an open word about the now sometimes usual criticism of the Americans, their sometimes existing unilateralism and on some issues that they set or are not willing to participate in: I am very much in favour of having a critical word with friends – no question. This too is part of a friendly dialogue. But if we remember the horror in dark time, then I am also for remembering the light deeds, the good deeds of those who have done us good. It was now the Americans, a generous people, who not only fought for our freedom, but also in the form of the Marshall Plan, who created those economic foundations that we still benefit very well from today in the ERP Fund. We shouldn't forget that either. Or think of the Berliner Luftbrücke, the resistance to the Cold War. All these are accents for which American politics is just as grateful as for the military actions in Bosnia and Kosovo, where this was not a struggle of cultures – on the contrary! There was action against so - called Christian leaders to protect victims who were Muslims, and it was good and right that way. That is why thanks to the Americans in a difficult time! [[General condolences.]] I think the American crisis management too is completely in order these days. There are strong statements on the one hand, which are very understandable in view of the problem, but on the other hand there is also a sober, target-oriented actual approach. It is determined that evidence is collected, one consults the most important partners. An attempt is being made to form a large international coalition. I have no doubt that there will ultimately be a harsh response, but it will and must have the character of a police action to punish a criminal mass murder. That's the common position! [[In the case of the ÖVP, the Freeman as well as the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today we, the Federal Government, propose an action plan for peace and security and against the networks of terrorism, consisting of ten points. Firstly, more security at airports. This includes luggage control as well as a smart selection of employees, better control of the private and need flyers and safety between cockpit and passenger compartment. Secondly, We must take the new threats and above all the protection against biological, nuclear or chemical substances much more seriously. In my opinion, it should also be noted – as I did at the European Council last Friday – that European standards for nuclear power plants must finally be established and disaster protection improved at all levels. This is a very important concern of modern security policy. Thirdly, this includes alertness to asylum and immigration policy. I also say this very openly as one who always advocates that refugees and real asylumers should be included in us. But it is precisely the experience of recent terrorist attacks that some of the perpetrators have come legally with visas, asylum applications, and there is a need for a certain degree of distinction. In this sense, Europe-wide – in Austria from January 2002 onwards – will introduce the Eurodac system, the review of asylum seekers through fingerprints, and we will have to continue in this area at European level. Fourth: We need a much better and more efficient information exchange and cooperation between police and justice. This goes towards EUROPOL, which must also fight against terrorism, and towards the creation of a European arrest warrant with a clear definition of terrorism. In addition, extraditions must be made between the European partners. Fifth, you open a bottle Effective tracking of the sources of terrorism is important. This includes the fact that we already have a lot of opportunities to do within our banking secrecy and, of course, we must also act internationally in an exchange of information. It also belongs to the ratification of the UN Convention to suppress the financing of terrorism, which we decided on Tuesday in the Council of Ministers and have now submitted to the House. Sixthly, economic aid for affected industries is involved. I am very grateful that it will be possible to send Austrian aviation companies a liability aid to the Republic of Austria at an extraordinary meeting today, just as we offer active labour market support to the travel agency industry in a difficult situation. Seventeenths: humanitarian aid, especially in the region. Ladies and gentlemen! We don't want mass flows of refugees over thousands of miles. It is our humanitarian, social and human rights obligation to help refugees fleeing the terrible Taliban regime, as far as possible in the region – Pakistan, the Central Asian countries, Iran – to provide them with accommodation and food. This will require more than the international community has done so far. And Austria will be ready to do so within the framework of its possibilities, ladies and gentlemen. [[General condolences.]] Eighthly, this includes foreign policy initiatives for Austria, especially in Central Asia and the Middle East. The foreign minister was in Syria and Jordan, today she is in Egypt. She met Palestinian president Arafat, Saudi Foreign Minister and today Egyptian President Mubarak. This is done together with other European Foreign Ministers, Jack Straw, the British Foreign Minister, and in agreement with the Belgian Presidency. It is important that Austria shows presence in a difficult time. Nineteenths: In summer, we launched a not very well-known initiative – but it was very important – with UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, namely a dialogue of civilisations in which Jews, Muslims and Christians of all directions worked together. The book, a kind of world ethics, is to be published in November. We have agreed with the Austrian religious communities to engage in a dialogue of civilisations here in Austria. Tenth and last: This is the case for democrats. Based on UN Resolution 1368, we will also have an impact on this case of alliance for democrats. We are willing to cooperate in this fight against terrorism and open our airspace to those who want to act. However, Austrians will not participate in combat proceedings. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] In this terrible situation, however, hope is growing – I would like to say this quite openly at the end of the day. The coalition of 180 states, the good coordination between the Europeans, the cooperation with the Americans and yesterday's speech by President Putin before the German Bundestag give hope. Putin has explained that we politicians too are guilty because we are talking about a partnership, but in reality we have not yet learned to trust each other. – I think such open words give hope. This and the hopefully meeting between Arafat and Peres today give hope. America is hit, but it won't fall. Our seeming security may be shaken, but the certainty remains that an open democratic society with its enemies will end. In this sense, today's three-party resolution is also a hope that there is common ground in Austria in a difficult time. This hope, this security, this confidence in a restless time, is what our citizens need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9467	I thank the Federal Chancellor for his statement to the National Council. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor has now come to speak. Speech time: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9491	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Two weeks have passed since the massive attacks in New York and Washington, two weeks of mourning about death and destruction, as well as intensive research and analysis, speculation and investigation regarding the authors of this crime and the correct, necessary and appropriate response to it. But above all, there must be one thing in front of all these considerations: the memory of the thousands of people who celebrate this 11th. They lost their lives so cruelly in September. This day, which began as a radiant autumn day, has become the blackest day in the lifetime of my generation. Thousands of people went to work on that day, like anyone else, in their offices, or, like so often before, they boarded an airplane to visit their family or friends to make a business appointment, and thousands will never return home. Many of them have had in mind the secure certainty of death in the last moments of their lives. No one of us can only judge what that means, and how immensely great the suffering of the relatives is, their fathers and mothers, their sons and daughters, whose brothers and sisters are buried among the ruins. These thoughts are painful, but we must not let them know from us, for what happened on the 11th. It's all about us on September. That was an attack on human dignity, freedom, tolerance and democracy all over the world. We cannot and must not close our eyes. We're in this 21. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links==* Official website We had confidence that conventional wars between states that mass murder and dictatorship are history in the civilized world. But we were not sufficiently aware that today we are dealing with completely new forms of threat, a threat to all of us, all over the world. Contradictive feelings have moved people all over the world in the last days: Grief and despair, anger and retribution, pride and spite. This can be dangerous, but it can also show a new way. It is hard to imagine that from such a terror something good can grow up, but the best memory of those who have been murdered in such a terrible way is our efforts to a world that is safer and more reasonable. This hope is not unfulfilled. This has shown unprecedented solidarity with the attacked United States. More than 180 states, including Russia, China and many Arab states, have demonstrated unity in the fight against terrorism. This is a global alliance, as it has never been in this form in history. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Austria has also taken its natural place in this solidarity group. This applies to our humanitarian aid as well as to our offer to provide the disaster protection unit of the Austrian Federal Army for use in New York, and of course also to over-flight permits under the UN Decisions. This does not affect the Austrian neutrality in any way, in order to say it quite clearly. I therefore do not think that it is appropriate to reorganise the efforts of global cooperation in the fight against terrorism into an internal-Austrian neutrality debate. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] To have this discussion out of an emotion would be just as wrong as the vague hope of staying out of everything would be equivalent to security. Terrorism is in our greatest interest. There are no islands of the Blessed in the international terrorist networks. Austria also had to recognise this painfully in the past, namely in the murder of city councillor Heinz Nittel, in the attacks on the Jewish synagogue and on the OPEC Centre in Vienna and at the airport Schwechat. Looking away is no guarantee of looking beyond us. I fully understand that the word "war", which has been heard and read so often in the last few days, simply causes fear and fear – fear of that generation that has experienced the terrible horrors of war itself, but also of those who have grown up in consciousness, never have to experience anything like this. This fear is understandable, but it is unfounded. No Austrian soldier will take part in a war. This is not at all for discussion, and it would be highly irresponsible to hold the Austrian security discussion at this level. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But just as abstrus are increasing anti-American resentments in the last few days; I think you should also address this openly. It has been much stronger since days to hear the accusation that the American policy is responsible for the hatred that has led the perpetrators to their terrible deeds. From this claim to the conclusion that the United States deserved a humiliation, it is only a short and absolutely unacceptable way. Special alliances between the whole left and the right are raised in this question. A few days after the thousand-fold murder, a comment by EU Member Hans-Peter Martin was published in an Austrian daily newspaper under the title: "Terrorism as an opportunity for Europe...... to emancipate from the U.S. mission in the process of globalisation." In this comment it says – I quote –: "Because the United States has been refusing to take over the role of an honest, impartial mediator in the Middle East for more than 30 years, violence is escalating. Above all, the attacks in America revealed the failure of a world in which the economy was given primacy. ... Only hungry people develop into suicide pilots. ... Plumpe Neoliberalism has died in the World Trade Center." [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Who said that?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I consider these words, these views of the SPÖ member Hans-Peter Martin to be unreasonable and inexcusable. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There is no justification for terrorism – neither a religious nor a political one. If you don't understand this, you'll be providing handling services for Osama bin Laden and his compliments all over the world. Those who squeak their noses on the geopolitical role of the US should also ask themselves whether it was not very convenient to pass on to the USA in recent years those tasks for which we ourselves had the responsibility to bear in Europe – the Balkan keyword. The fact is that thousands of people in the United States had to die just because they were Americans or because they had just stopped at the World Trade Center or in one of the aircraft converted to bombs. The fact is that it was a secret, well-prepared attack and that America has every right to defend itself and to prevent other blood attacks, if possible. It is high on the U.S. government that it did not give in to the impulse of the first anger and the temptation of a rapid retribution strike, but in a highly sensible and responsible way, for the values of freedom and justice must also be valid in answering this criminal challenge, otherwise the terrorists would have achieved an even greater success from their point of view. All in all, the world is after the 11th century. September before a threefold task: the persecution of the perpetrators and their punishment, the guarantee of the best possible safety standards and the fight against causes. This includes the drying out of terrorist flows. Up to 15,000 billion shillings a year are hunted uncontrolled around the globe. Effective counter-terrorism means, in particular, removing these criminals from their financial bases. Effective counter-terrorism means also international cooperation between security authorities and intelligence services. The criminals do not stop at any limits, and the international community has not yet found the right answer. It will not be easy in the future to fight anarchist and terrorist structures with the means of the rule of law, but that is our task. Those who want to live freely need security from crime and terrorism. In the fight against terrorism, it is also primarily a question of curbing fundamentalism, which is known not only to exist but also to the Islamic world. In order to ensure internal peace in Europe, we must distinguish between Islam and Islamism, i.e., integrate the Muslims living in Europe. I am very glad that the President of the Islamic Faith in Austria has found that positive living together in our country is guaranteed even in difficult times. But that also means that no misunderstanded liberalism towards Muslim extremists, who seek asylum by appealing to political persecution and often receive it. Numerous fundamentalist organizations are present with institutions in one or another European capital and have sophisticated logistics. If you allow this to happen, you must not be surprised at the fact that there are ethnic-religious and political conflicts with us, which can also take violent forms. Tolerance can only work in a political culture in which the various participants acknowledge and accept reciprocity. Tolerance is not a question of political convenience, which can only be used by Islamic fundamentalists and also only unilaterally. ==References== Islamic Summit of the Organization of the Islamic Conference in Tehran in December 1997 condemned 55 Islamic Heads of State for terrorism and asked European governments not to grant terrorists asylum. This call must be taken seriously, just as the Islamic states, on their soil, must fight the terrorist networks credible and sustainable. The events of the 11th century. September imposes requirements on us that we have to exist. Our democracy must be defensive. A democracy that does not defend its values is self-destructive and would not contribute to a peaceful living together. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is important, while respecting and respecting our humanitarian achievements, to provide a challenger who negates precisely these values to the forehead. This federal government will take the necessary measures to ensure, in the awareness of the great challenge, the necessary measures to ensure the best of our commitment, namely the security of this country and its people.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9563	I would also like to thank Mrs. Vice-Chancellor. – The two declarations are now before the debate. Mr Gusenbauer came to speak, then Dr. Khol, then Ing. Westenthaler, then Dr. Van der Bellen – each 15 minutes. Please, Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9587	Federal Chancellor! Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The shock over the terrible attack on the 11th. September is a deep-seated – not only with the representatives of the House, not only in Austria, Europe and the United States, but all over the world. This deep shock should not lead to unthinking reactions, but should lead, in addition to the expression of solidarity and concern, to sensibleness as regards future steps. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, I think it is extremely good that, despite all the causes and the legitimate sense of revenge and retaliation in the United States of America, it has not been a short-term fundamental military counter-beat, but rather an attempt to develop an international strategy against terrorism, involving as many partners as possible in Europe, China, Russia and also in the whole Arab world. I think that this is a much better contribution to the long-term fight against terrorism than an even more understandable counter-beat that may result from revenge. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to use today's day to thank for the good coordination, for the close agreement that has existed between my group and the Federal Chancellor and the members of the Federal Government in recent days. I think that was important for Austria, for security and for our country, and I stand by it and thank you. [[Congratulations on the SPÖ, the Freeman, the ÖVP and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we now discuss and consider what an international strategy against terrorism should look like, how it can be efficient and create long-term security, it is, I think, first of all important that we should not build new ideologies, new confrontational ideas where this confrontation does not exist. Even though the core of this terrorism may be buried in the Middle East conflict, we must not let ourselves be caught up in these shortened theses, that it is a war or a clash of civilizations, but one must clearly say that the vast majority of the population in the Islamic states – including all Arabs and Muslims living in Austria – has the same goals as we: They want to have a better, a more just, a more free life; and these people must not be thrown into a pot with the terrorists. [[We welcome the SPÖ, the Liberals and the ÖVP and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! You have said quite correctly if the question arises whether we are on the side of the perpetrators or on the side of the victims, then Austria always has to stand on the side of the victims. I'm emphasizing that. I would like to stress this several times because, of course, in all that we do and what the international community does, we must always ask whether there are innocent victims in the counter-strategies. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] If one sees images from Afghanistan where 1.5 million people are fleeing, when one sees the images of Afghanistan, where the population first suffered from the Soviet presence, then the Mudjahedin had to experience, and where there is now an unbundled fear of the Taliban and a military struggle, then one has to say quite clearly: We do not want the Afghan people already suffering from suffering to be sacrificed any international strategy, but we must decide to do very precise research into the perpetrators who cannot be convinced with good words, and to bring them to account, if necessary, through police and military measures. But the Afghan people have a right to our solidarity and a right to our protection! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, with representatives of the ÖVP and with the Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Much is said about the situation in the Middle East, and there are many interpretations of how this cruel terrorism could come about. I do not think many of these theories are entirely valid, for example, when it is said that this terrorism has arisen from the social need. – If that were the reason, there would have to be something similar elsewhere. There are other parts of the world in which social distress is significantly greater than in the Middle East and the Middle East. The terrorists who have now been identified have not been among the hungry and in need, but have often been members of the upper class in their countries. That is, one must also be careful not to make shortened interpretations of what happened there. But above all, what you need to make clear is: No matter what the reason, no matter what the motive behind these cruel attacks, there can be no acceptable reason, because this terror desecrates every intended purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, there can only be a clear rejection here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, with representatives of the ÖVP and with the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What's going to happen? . We agree that there must be a foreign policy strategy, which, at its core, must contain a solution to the situation in the Middle East. There must be a strategy to dry up the sources of funding that flow to terrorism. There must be a strategy aimed at strengthening the security of their own population, and it is likely that the uninstructed who are not prepared to engage in dialogue and negotiation will also need to be eliminated by military means. Ladies and gentlemen! But the important thing is: What vision of the Middle East do we have for the future, and who are our partners? – I have thought a lot about it in recent days, especially about the American foreign policy, which, like the foreign policy of many countries, had its heights and its depths in history. But in 1945, when Europe was in Schutt and Ash, when Germany was a war opponent in the United States, the US took a remarkable step: They have exercised solidarity with their former opponents, helped with the Marshall Plan and helped to rebuild Europe. Europe was not at this time the poorest place in the world, but at that time Europe was the most dangerous place in the world because of the cruel experiences of the Second World War. It was a general who was Foreign Minister, namely George Marshall, who eventually developed this plan for the peaceful development of Europe. Now, if you draw a parallel and ask what is the most dangerous point in the world today, you have to say that today is the most dangerous point in the Middle East world. There are many there, except for the teeth armed and refined. I believe that it would be wise to implement a similar strategy with regard to the Middle East, as the American friends did after 1945 in Europe, namely, in addition to a political solution – implemented – to develop a powell plan that can lead to an economic and political stabilisation of the Middle East; only with the difference that the responsibility for it no longer must or should not be borne by the United States of America alone, but that a Europe that has become rich must be prepared to assume this co-responsibility so that we can create peace and stability in the Middle East, ladies and gentlemen. [[We welcome the SPÖ, the Liberals and the ÖVP and the Greens.]] I have great confidence in the activities of American Foreign Minister Colin Powell, because a military in such a difficult situation knows what war means, what it means to send his men to battle, because he knows very well that the heroic images that appear in the history books are just the one side of the medal. [[Demonstration of the liberals.]] The other side of the medal is courage, despair, misery not only with the affected population, but also with the soldiers. Therefore, he is rightly reluctant to send his men to a battle that he does not know what is going on – similar to George Marshall, who, before being Foreign Minister, was General of the United States' United Forces and strongly warned against sending the troops to a battle whose outcome is uncertain. After Colin Powell knows exactly what war means, he is one of those who are very strongly committed to developing a political, economic overall strategy against international terrorism, and I believe that we Austrians should support it, because that is the right way. [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ, the Liberals, the EIA and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think we have to be careful, too. I am pleased that there is international solidarity in the fight against terrorism, but not all that individuals understand today is terrorism. I warn against inflation of the word "terrorism", because if every government – unfortunately there are authoritarian governments, dictatorial governments in the world – calls any kind of resistance it may be against terrorism, then I must say quite openly that this is not terrorism. There must continue to be the possibility of resistance against dictatorships, without having to be insulted as a terrorist. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly saying this because I have taken some declarations very seriously in recent days. On the one hand, individual Islamic states, which are not of the moderate, but rather of the more fundamentalist states, speak against terrorism, but we know on the other hand, we have experienced that hundreds of thousands of people, for example, had to flee Iran and other countries 20 years ago in order to save their lives, and that these people have found protection and shelter in us. We must therefore say quite clearly: There is a common procedure against terrorism, but we reject inflation of the term "terrorism" for any kind of legitimate resistance, because that could also happen to the wrong ones, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] A second point, which, I believe, is important to be held in a parliament, is as follows: I am very much in favour of the implementation of the measures proposed by the Federal Chancellor today. But we must also be aware that every open society, any liberal democracy, is a balance between security and freedom. Of course, security is very important, but one of the highest goods we have to defend is freedom and democracy. I'm not ready for us to sacrifice our freedom in the struggle for our freedom. Here we have to find the balance, ladies and gentlemen! [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ, the Liberals, the EIA and the Greens.]] As terrible as these attacks were, as affected and affected by all of us, there are conclusions to draw with which we may be able to make the world better than it is today. If this shock, which exists and will not make the dead alive, leads to the world coming closer together and acting together against terrorism, then that is the best memory we can afford to the dead.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9764	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9786	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Before I speak on the agenda, allow me to say that our highly valued President of Salzburger Landtage, Mr. Universitätsprofessor Dr. Helmut Schreiner, collapsed and died a few minutes ago at the President's desk. I think we should honor him as a great federalist and express our concern. He was a big man! - I can thank you. [[All present rise from their places and persist for some time in stupid mourning.]] High house! Mr Gusenbauer! Much of what you said we can sign and support. It is, I believe, very interesting that large parts of the House have applauded the statements from the government side and that large parts of the House have also praised part of your remarks. I think we have a common basis here, and I think we can further develop this common base. Our task as the Austrian National Council is to make our contribution to the fact that international terrorism does not triumph over peace, freedom, justice and our culture. That's our job. [[General condolences.]] We all know that our contribution to the fight against international terrorism is essential to the security of our own country. It is our own security, the security of our fellow human beings and the other peoples that we have in mind when we do everything we can to meet this ugly frenzy of terrorism. I would like to thank the Federal Government for including us parties, namely all parties, in crisis management. I think I can see that crisis management in this sudden crisis was actually flawless. I would like to thank everyone for this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] The Austrian population, which can at least partially follow this discussion today, should rightly have the impression that, in view of the threat of our fundamental values, all the parties of this House are united, that we have recognized that there is no security at zero rate and that – I quote here as the Vice-Cancellor John Donne too – no country is an island. For everyone, the hour beats once, and we do not know whether terrorism is happening to us or elsewhere. I share the view of Alfred Gusenbauer, who also believes that, in the sense of Heidegger, we must not become a crocodile ourselves over the struggle with the crocodile. We must not go away from our rule of law in the fight against terrorism itself. That is not what we want, that is not intentional, and whoever puts it under us, he does wrong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to say one thing: In the last few days, the phrase has become the same again and again, and everything has to be different now. No, ladies and gentlemen! Our basic values of peace, freedom, justice and the security of our people must not be different! Here, our states of law must be defenceful and protect the rights of our fellow citizens. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] There has been discussions between all the parties represented in this House, which we have experienced in crisis management almost without a legal basis, spontaneously, by the government, namely that the ministers responsible with the parliamentary parties, with the leaders of the opposition, with which National Council Presidents have consulted, consulted and telephoned as important politicians, and that we have finally set up a National Security Council in that country. The government groups, Peter Westenthaler and I, have submitted an initiative proposal this morning. We know that there is a need for discussion with the Social Democrats and the Greens. We assure you of your colleagues from the opposition to open and fair discussions. We are convinced that you want the same thing as we do, an instrument that protects our fellow citizens from all threats. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] I would like us to move on at least in an approach to the preparation of the Security Doctor and to be in a similar positive discussion with all the political groups. However, on behalf of Mr Cap, Mr Westenthal and Mr Khol, I can already put forward today a motion for a resolution which has been negotiated, which unfortunately has not reached consensus with the Green Group, but perhaps there is a consensus in the vote. I would like to explain this motion within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, because it is extensive and has been distributed in the House, only in its core points. But he shows in the core points what we want here. First of all, we want to express solidarity with the United States, with the Americans, through this barbaric act of violence of the 11th century. ==References====External links== We want to fight terrorism worldwide and we want to choose a coordinated and targeted approach with appropriate means. In this context, we express our opinion on the matter. We welcome what the Austrian Federal Government has so far taken steps, and we urge the Federal Government to continue this action in this spirit. I want to read one thing because it's very important: We request that the National Council establish that the United Nations Security Council resolution 1368 of 12 December 1993 should be amended. On 1 September 2001 Austria was involved in international actions to combat terrorism, in particular humanitarian aid and disaster aid, search and rescue measures and the granting of multi-flight permits, on the basis of existing legislation. . The three political groups are proposing this in this proposal. We also note that the statements by the European Councils meeting in this context, particularly those of the 12th and 14th Councils, have been made. September, we also agree with our opinion and that we want to fully support this action programme and act in solidarity. We also propose – and also the importance of the European Union – that what the Ministers of the Interior and Justice did at their meeting on 20 October. This programme – the Federal Chancellor has presented it – is being implemented on September, and I am very pleased that we can achieve a broad consensus on the fight against terrorism. Of course, the National Council supports the Federal Government and, in particular, the Federal Army and the Executive with all the measures to protect the Republic and its citizens. We want to optimize the willingness to use and also equip these forces with the right equipment, that is, the executive and the federal army, so that they can protect us. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP, the Freeman and the Deputies of the SPÖ.]] In addition, the Federal Government is asked to continue to contribute at bilateral and multilateral level to the balance of interests, to crisis prevention, to the fight against poverty and to balanced economic development and to the resolution of regional conflicts. This has also been explained by Alfred Gusenbauer by encouraging plans which, however, already exist within the framework of the European Union. And when we learn that Benita Ferrero-Waldner travels to the Middle East today, we have to say that these are exactly the things that are addressed and supported here. Finally, these three parties also rely on the power of international law because they propose to the Federal Government that the future International Criminal Court in The Hague can also be held responsible for the persecution and condemnation of international effective terrorists. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the action programme that we have agreed on together in the interests of the security of our fellow citizens. I also cordially ask the Greens to reconsider their position without polemizing. If you are not co-sponsored, you may be able to jump over your shadow – please, more Voggenhuber! – and agree to this resolution. – So far to what I brought in. Ladies and gentlemen! We must now have the right debates. It is about free democracy against terror, fear and death threat, it is about freedom and right against crime. It's about peace against violence. It's not about a fight of religions. Consider what is happening in Northern Ireland! This is not a struggle of religions, it is a hatred that has arisen for centuries. This is not a struggle of religions, it is just a pretext. This can be seen by hearing and seeing the calls from the Protestant and Catholic bishops there. Nor are the struggles between Tamils and Ceylonese not a struggle of religions and cultures against one another. That means the right debate is to be held. As a Catholic, allow me to say the following: What the Holy Father said on his last trip to Asia to Islam is something we should all strongly support and consider. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we also need to have the debate on whether we are prepared. Haven't we believed for too long that security is delivered free of charge and franco and that we really don't have to do anything? - Let's admit: Security policy has not been the place in the last ten years, because we believed it was beautiful weather, we do not need umbrellas. – Now we see at once the importance of security policy, and I believe that we must act quickly now. Ladies and gentlemen! Short-term action is needed, medium-term action is needed and long-term action is needed. In the short term, democracy must show our civilization that it is strong that it is ready to defend its fundamental values. That is why we support international police actions of military nature in this area. If we don't show strength, we'll provoke the next terrorists because they're "success." In the medium term, we must do all that the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers propose, create the right instruments for our executives, and, naturally, we must go to the roots in the long term and, if possible, resolve regional conflicts. This is the long-term strategy. We know that one cannot replace the other, and I do not think it is right to say that the short-term measure, because, of course, the UN must use legitimate force, we forget that we rely only on the long-term. This would mean that terrorism was successful. Ladies and gentlemen! In the interests of the security of our fellow citizens, we must not pursue such strategies. We must act and this House will make its contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9955	I announce that the motion for a resolution by Mrs Cap, Mr Ing, which has just been presented in his key points. Westenthaler, Dr. Khol and comrades were also presented in writing and are sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, this request is also accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10046	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10068	Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers and State Secretary! High house! We have the day 15 after the disaster in New York. All over Europe, all over the world, but especially in America, attempts are being made to return to normality in social life. Since Sunday, the flags have been heated again. It is therefore right that all of us, in the whole world, but also here in Austria, here in the House, put consensus in the foreground, because the horrors of the 11th century. September, which has so touched us, and the physical and mental suffering of those affected and the survivors remain. That is why it is so necessary to express the full solidarity, full sympathy with the American people now, and I am glad that 180 countries – we have already heard it today – are able to express their conviction worldwide, from China about Russia, the Arab countries, the countries in Europe and, of course, here in Austria in the fullest chest: Yes, we are in solidarity with the American people, and we are in solidarity with such a barbaric act as those of the 11th century. September, ladies and gentlemen! [[We welcome the liberals, the ÖVP and the representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to thank the Federal Government, chaired by the Federal Chancellor and Mrs Vice-Chancellor, the Security Ministers, but also the representatives of the opposition for the constructive phase we have been able to experience in the last few days. I think it was right to stand together, to act together and to seek answers and solutions together, ladies and gentlemen. [[We welcome the liberals, the ÖVP and the representatives of the SPÖ.]] These acts of terror are – and have often been said – acts of violence against the entire civilized world, against freedom, against democracy, and they are above all a disregard for human life. That is why, I stress and repeat, there can be no doubt at all that for terrorist, extremist violence there can be neither political nor religious nor any justification, ladies and gentlemen. The fight against terror, the aggressment of such systems is the task of all states, of all cultures, and therefore I am opposed now to proclaim the struggle of cultures in the direction of the fiction of Samuel Huntington, or to use it as an example. This is not a struggle of the cultures that are playing here, but it is a struggle within the cultures, within the cultures of so many blinded religious warriors on the one hand and quite honest, reasonable and peaceful believers on the other. That is why we should also make every effort – I am very much in favour – not to generalize, not to take Islam into total liability, so to speak, but to differentiate, and to distinguish between Islam and Islamist terror, ladies and gentlemen – the Vice-Chancellor has already said it. That's very important. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am also very pleased that the dialogue, which has already begun under this federal government in the past few months before this devastating attack, will continue. I am thinking, for example, of the travels of the Minister for Defence and its important role as intermediaries, such as the journeys to Egypt, Syria, Oman or Israel, or I am thinking of the current, important journeys of the Foreign Minister, which is on the way at the hour. It is now important not to end the dialogue, but to conduct the dialogue. I am contradicting Hans Rauscher of the "standard" who, in a strange way, called for these attacks to end the dialogue with the respective countries. - No! It is precisely now that we must put on dialogue and address the allies in these countries against terrorism and win them for us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We must also be careful about every lump-sum conviction and every war jargon. I'm against that too. It is not about the Bible against the Qur'an. It's not about crusade versus holy war versus jihad. It is not about demon on the one hand and Satan on the other, as we have often read in recent days. It is not about war, campaign, destruction and extermination, but we must realize that on the one hand, there is freedom, security, self-determination and democracy in the Western world with its allies and, on the other, there is a dangerous, terrorist amalgam of technical know-how, organizational precision mixed with neurotic lust for destruction and falsely understood belief, ladies and gentlemen! This is the new quality of the discussion. We must not hide from that, but we must also look for the fight to begin this fight. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The dialogue is important. But it is equally important in this dialogue to put its own values of freedom and democracy in the foreground, not to detract from them, but to put its own values of freedom, democracy and the values of the rule of law in the foreground. It is already a terrible irony of fate that the Islamic terrorists have been trained in that country for many years and have traveled to that country, which they eventually did with their terrible work on 11 November. In September, she was scared and scared. This is a terrible irony of history, and therefore it is also right and important that all countries worldwide are actually thinking about how new and better security systems can work, how new and better identity systems and control systems can work. Austria too must continue its current, very right policy of controlled, responsible, yes, a restrictive immigration policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is very important to continue this course and also to call into question the previous control systems, to improve them, and to improve them jointly. And I say, Yes, I am also in favour of improving the identity systems. The current passport being, the present visa is apparently too little. We therefore need – and I stress this – the way of the EU. We also need the step towards the fingerprint system, and I am in favour of introducing this system not only for asylum seekers, but for all immigrants, and in an extended system at all. It is the only working system to find identity and ultimately to improve security in all countries on our continent, ladies and gentlemen! That's why I'm so sorry. I am also in favour of the fact that grid arrest and noise attack will ultimately help break through. I am also in favour of formulating an integration agreement in this country that determines who wants to integrate here and who does not. And I am also in favour of strengthening the monitoring here of active, partly also as radical organisations or elements of such organisations. Ladies and gentlemen! All these measures are important because we should together have a central concern, namely that Austria should not be a scene or a hiding place for international terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen! That must be our goal. We should put this in the foreground. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, we should also here today – and this is also contained in the resolution – formulate a joint appeal to a reasonable, targeted process of the State community. We are very happy about this – we have already said this today – that the American government has so far worked very well. The aim is to find the terrorist cells in the respective countries also in the Arab world, but not to destroy the opportunity of these countries to modernise, democracy and human rights. That's what I'm going to do. Therefore, we should also make a strong appeal as far as the answer is concerned. There should be no campaign, no war, but the perpetrators, the organizations behind it, the sponsors, the protectors of terror must be found. They must be localized and fought. But on the other hand, we must recognise and know that international terrorism – and I also give Mr Gusenbauer the right to defeat not only with military or police means, but only with sustainable political solutions in the long run: where they are urgently needed, at the root. The Middle East problem is the central problem to be solved, ladies and gentlemen. There must be no one-sided evaluations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP and SPÖ.]] There must be the same commitment, ladies and gentlemen! The same commitment that an alliance from 180 states has now found against terrorism must also exist in order to finally resolve this conflict in the Middle East. One must also be allowed to pronounce, also at this point: Just as it is gratifying that after the attack a small plant of dialogue between Israel and the Palestinians has been created again, we must also note with strangers that only one day after this attack one of the largest military offensives of the Israelis against the Palestinians took place in Gaza. We cannot accept that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is important here to find justice. This is where the world's public has to set the focus correctly. Over the last decades, we have repeatedly experienced that enemies have not made friends, but at least have become partners. There are signs that one could bridge insurmountable opposites. I think it is the main task of the future to bridge together these insurmountable contradictions in the Middle East, because only then will we have a lasting peace and can also fight terror accordingly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Worldwide terrorism wants to be the goal of global war, and so it also needs global answers. I've already said it: The US has answered correctly. We have done the right thing in Austria too. It has formed an alliance of reason in which no one wants to stand away. I therefore welcome the initiative of three parties today. I hope that the Greens will also be able to deal with their internal conflict and see the bigger, the more important, and join this resolution as the fourth force in this National Council. I think it would be desirable for us to be able to find a four-party agreement here today and to address internal problems. I think that would be fair this day, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Austria can show logistical, humanitarian solidarity without taking part in direct action in the context of this conflict, which has been said several times today. What is needed now is wisdom and prudence. But there is also a need for disarmament of words. Perhaps some of the statements of the past days and weeks are still relativized, such as the comparison of a democratic government with the Taliban terror regime. Or: Mr President of the Council! In view of the incidents of the last few days, go into yourself and consider once again whether you really think that the current government in Austria is comparable to a dictatorship. - I don't think so. And I think it would be the right time to distance myself from such statements in the public, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Rather, we should use our energy to think about how we can improve this balance – as it was correctly said – between security and the rule of law without giving up freedom without restricting freedom. But we should also get away from the pessimism, from the darkness, from the blockades that have taken place in the sense of our population, in the sense of the people in Austria, which, of course, are present in the minds after such a terrible incident. We need to go back to more optimism. We, as politicians, have also finally been elected to take control of the matter and to rekindle optimism. Let us take an example of optimism and also of the dedicated civil movement of security forces both in the United States on the ground at Zero as well as in the security forces, the security authorities here in the country, which in the last few days have carried out their profession and done so well. It is important to thank them sincerely, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For the future, freedom and security must not exclude each other, even if a part – we need to be aware of that – of these two values on 11 November. ==References====External links==* Official website The consensus of the three parties shows how important these values – freedom and security – are to us. Therefore, it is important to take decisive action against terrorism, to find answers with the necessary sense of mind, to guarantee comprehensive security, to do everything possible to protect the Austrian population, but also to be afraid to give security, to look sincerely into the future. I think then we can also see the problems that the world presents to us in a tragic way and In the future, how it has helped to solve each other better.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10250	Mr Van der Bellen has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10271	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot of right and important, and I cannot therefore be entirely original. Federal Chancellor Schüssel said a lot of important things. Mr Westenthaler, who has just spoken in front of me, has also said a lot of things right, even though he has managed in a remarkable way to bring the restrictive immigration policy of his party and MEPs into the context of the Afghanistan crisis. I mean, we should already emphasize the common ground where it is right and important, but we should also keep things apart and honestly say where there are differences. I will come back to that during my brief speech. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the beginning, it is also important for me to stress that Western Europe is not in any relation to the USA, but in a very special, historically based, special relationship. It will feel grief, compassion and anger all over the world about the mass murder in New York, but I think he has a special connotation in Western Europe, because it is difficult to imagine that the Hitler regime and the Nazis could have been defeated without the participation of the USA in World War II. It is difficult to imagine that the peace order in Western Europe could have thrived after the war without the Marshall Plan. That is why I do not think it is necessary to say that, in so far as the US and the Marshall Plan are, in some way, also among the founding fathers of the European Community at the time, the European Union today. Not to be forgotten is the very special German relationship with the USA, since about the beginning of the 1960s President Kennedy set an unusual and risky spirit of solidarity with Westberlin. All of this, I believe, is a special commitment to the United States from the western European point of view, and I think that is what we all do. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But I would like to stay dry and sober in addition to all this emotion. I would like to say at this point: Friends are already allowed to criticize each other, and I personally have felt that, for example, the Central American policy of the USA, in particular against Nicaragua, has been completely wrong over the years and decades. You have to be able to say that without being considered anti-American. But today is not the hour to hold this kind of discussion and repeat this kind of criticism. Today we are all under the shock of Tuesday 14 days ago, especially the Americans themselves, and I can understand it well. It's not just the shock of mass murder, it's the shock of the attack on the mainland that took place for the first time. This distinguishes this case from that of Pearl Harbor, who was also a shock, but Pearl Harbor was still a few thousand kilometers away from the American core country, from the mainland, and American soldiers were essentially killed and not American citizens and civilians. It can already be understood that in the first few days in particular, a desire to retaliate on the part of the citizens and on some media arises and expresses itself. Not so much can be understood if this retribution wish should prevail in important, high-ranking politicians. These are there to preserve cool head and mind. It is therefore important to acknowledge to the Americans, of course, that the United States does not "adopt" the right to self-defense, but that they already have it under Article 51 of the UN Statute. But the right to self-defense has become difficult and complicated in this case. There have been no foreign tanks driven across the border, to which one can of course shoot back – self-defense right – but the enemy is diffuse, opaque, essentially unknown, not tangible. To date, we do not know exactly whether and how the Taliban regime in Afghanistan is involved in these incidents. That is why it is so important that the United States is not pursuing a unilateral, one-sided path, but is involved in the State community, especially within the framework of the UN General Assembly or the UN Security Council. Unlike the first days of development, I believe all of us have the feeling that the last eight days in relation to the – how do you say "multitral" in German? – have made progress towards a multi-faceted, comprehensive policy involving all other important countries, in particular within the Security Council. But we are not defence ministers or foreign ministers of the USA or anything else. The question is quite dry: What can Austria do? Mr President. By the way, I said: At my watch, I don't see how much speaking time I have left. I can't have talked for 1.5 minutes, can I?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10329	You have spoken 5.5 minutes, and your watch will be repaired. I have my watch under control.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10350	They keep cool head and mind. That would have been the first keyword. What I have missed a little in the previous statements is this perfectly correct call to keep cool head. But this applies not only to us politicians, but also to the editors, the editors, the reporters, the commentators who write about this conflict, and this also applies to all the other people in this country, namely the call not to let themselves be caught to crusade issues that thank God has been abducted again. Especially we – almost I would have said "we Christians" – should know what a devastating example the crusades would have been in this context. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But they were a few hundred years ago! We do not need these now in Parliament to discuss in the Austrian Parliament!]] You know that important politicians – I don't call them a name – have used this expression, not a few hundred years ago, but only last week. Today we should at least think back and forth, without now drawing ghosts on the wall, of 1914; this may be better than the crusade talk. In 1914, there was a terrorist attack, a homicide that two members of the Habsburg House fell victim to. It followed Ultimates, but I don't need to repeat in detail what happened then. I am not a historian, but I doubt that in 1914 any of the persons acting in the highest position of the ministries would have made these acts known to the fire of the land that they had finally triggered. And the risk is not small – even today not small, even if today, less than a week ago – that by unthinking statements, by unthinking measures, by out-of-eight leaving, a fire can develop, above all, the involvement of the Security Council. I think that the Austrians – like all of us here in the room – are worried, have fears in two ways, and both are entitled: the fear of terrorism, especially of this kind of human terrorism, on the one hand, and the fear of an uncontrollable war when the spiral of violence continues. – Both concerns are entitled! I do not repeat in detail the points in which we agree, but I am allowed to speak to the two requests – the clock still does not seem to work. There is a joint request from ÖVP, FPÖ and SPÖ and one from the Greens. We don't want to overvalue this, but we don't want to play the difference down either. There is a great deal of agreement in these two applications, partly word-like wording. It's not a miracle either. If you inform each other and consider: What else would we formulate?, then one realizes, very much is not to be formulated differently at all. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is he already brought in?]] Mr President. Our proposal is very long, I would therefore just like to outline it and ask that you then distribute it in plenary our motion for a resolution on solidarity against terrorist acts. For this reason, I should like to briefly outline what this request is about: solidarity with the United States – I think, in part, with your request, Mr Khol – to condemn these barbaric acts of violence and to support the Security Council decision in 1368. Much of the application deals with the fight against terrorism in various areas: combating terrorism, in particular in the area of financial, money laundering, direct financing of terrorism and relevant international agreements; The fight against terrorism in the field of justice and home affairs ministers – which has already been partially in progress – with the natural addition that the fundamental and freedom rights which we have struggled for over a hundred years must not be questioned by this, up to other points, such as the installation of the International Criminal Court, which, I believe, is identical to the request of the other parties. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Now the audience in the gallery and at home in front of the TV may ask: Yes, if all of this agrees, why doesn't there be a four-party application? – I think the cracking point is two sentences. Our proposal relates to the Security Council resolutions and the various declarations made by the European Union: "The participation in war preparations and war operations, however, contradicts the constitutional provisions on Austrian neutrality and is rejected by the Austrian National Council. Austria will, of course, comply with the UN Security Council's request to support measures in accordance with Chapter VII of the UN Charter in an appropriate manner." I think the legal situation is defined here, and this is important for a small state. Large states are never dependent on compliance with procedural rules because they always have a large margin of time. But the legal situation – with all sympathy, with all anger, with all anger over the attacks in the United States – is simple and touching that Austrian neutrality is an act of self-retirement, which cannot be pushed back and forth as desired and can be interpreted at any time. If the United Nations Security Council adopts accordingly specified decisions, then the matter will look different. Just compare, once you have the time, the decision now, state today, Wednesday, the sound so many, with the decisions of the Security Council at that time in the Gulf War II, Iraq/Kuwait or Iraq/USA, then you will see what we want, what kind of Security Council decisions we want. Here is the difference, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You're dealing with neutrality, I think, too simple. It doesn't fit you right now. We take neutrality as seriously as it deserves it under this Constitutional Law. [[Abg. Kiss: You argue wrong, Mr Van der Bellen! It is about UN resolution 1999!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This has nothing to do with'superinstructors', Mr President, not at all, but I am trying to explain to you what neutrality means. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I cannot, of course, prevent you from not wanting to take note of this. [[Abg. Kiss: It's about UN Resolution 1999!]] In conclusion, I would ask you to recognize a substantial difference in our request: We stress the provisions on Austrian neutrality as they do! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But there are also many similarities. With regard to the National Security Council in Austria, we are likely to reach an agreement. I think if everyone moves a little bit, that'll be possible. Many terrorist measures will be able to be agreed together. As a small atmospheric signal on the edge, I would like to conclude by saying: I welcome the fact that since the crisis broke out, Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel has been trying to inform us personally of the forthcoming developments or decisions in the context of the EU or other events, including the Greens, in particular me personally. I thank you for that, and I hope that will remain the same. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10465	I announce that the motion for a resolution by Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Comrades on solidarity against terrorist acts has just been presented in his key points and is sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10599	The next speaker to speak was Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10620	Mr President. High house! We will never be able to forget the pictures CNN and other television stations on the 11th. In September and in the days thereafter, the attacks in New York and Washington were repeated. Today I still have to acknowledge with respect and admiration the cohesion of the population in the United States, especially in the cities of New York and Washington. It was fought for every single human life, it was given spontaneous help, it was immediately tried to do everything possible to save human life. Think about it. Over 300 dead firemen, many police have left their lives in the fight against the effects and consequences of this cowardly terrorist attack! I am really one of all – I think – here in the house, who always feel with the victims, also with regard to the traumas that will follow these attacks, and who hope that they will actually succeed in taking measures to prevent a repetition of such fierce attacks as they have occurred in New York and Washington. I believe that this includes a lot of emotional feeling. It must not be said that in the fight against terrorism one is just buying that innocent victims also die, but it must be done very precisely, very effectively. There must be a form of anti-terrorism, which also exterminates terrorism in its roots in order to prevent new terrorist activities. For this reason, I am very glad that the UN was on 13 March. September one, as I said, made a very clear decision. I am very glad that all the representatives of the Security Council agreed, very pleased that China, Russia and all the other countries that are also directly affected in their fight against the supposedly terrorists and their terrorist activities, have pledged their support that the UN has taken this decision and that the European Union has made the necessary decisions in this regard. This has given people around the world and also here in Austria the impression that politics is doing everything to face this challenge, and is doing everything to combat the roots of terrorism as well. I would like to say to the UN resolution that points 4 and 5 clearly state that there is a sufficient mandate. In the motion for a resolution, which we have tabled together with the ÖVP and the FPÖ, we clearly say that all of this should be done on the basis of the legal basis, that is, our neutrality, Mr Van der Bellen. This UN mandate is sufficient to make our contribution to the fight against terror, to allow over-flying – if necessary, of course! - to award. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Freeman and the ÖVP.]] I believe that this is also happening in line with the Austrian population, who wants to see a contribution on our part that wants to contribute to reaching the roots of this terror. I also think it is important that the resolution calls for an international criminal court. The perpetrators must be examined, they must be found and put before the Court of Justice. I think it can say the greatest, strongest weapon of the free democratic world that is open societies: We have a rule of law! – If terrorism had won, it would have been a restriction on the rule of law, it would have led to a reduction in all of these legal principles, which we are so proud of and which are the mark of an open society, they would have been restricted. Revenge, practice mere retribution – no! An international criminal court must have a trial and a conviction before it, so that it can also be signaled: We are valued, morally the stronger! We have a value system that we want to implement and use here as well. I mean, an international criminal court is an opportunity for the UN, is an opportunity for all of us to prove this rule of law. Today, we will jointly decide on this motion for a resolution – those three parties that have brought it in – and we want to try to signal it to the Austrian people, too, that, regardless of what separates us from many other political issues and what we always express in controversial debates, we want to look together for security for the people, for security for the Austrians. As much as I support the individual points that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has raised here and feel that he is right – he has also essentially described the problem areas – I would like to make a comment on one point. I have followed a very precise debate on the safety of nuclear power plants, and there are clear statements from experts from Germany, but also from the IAEA, who believe there would be no protection against terrorist attacks on nuclear power plants. If that is the case, then one can no longer speak of European standards, which, by the way, are not defined and I believe are not definable, but should seek the way out of nuclear energy, say goodbye to this dangerous technology, because the consequences of such an attack are inevitable. [[General condolences.]] I say this in agreement with the Austrians, with the citizens who address me – just like you all – on the street because they are afraid. I admit, I can't defend this feeling of fear, alone in thinking that there could be attacks on nuclear power plants around Austria. The consequences are inevitable. Therefore, steps are required both by the international community of states and, above all, by the European Union, as well as by the Austrian Federal Government and by us here in Parliament, so that the remaining six countries which still have nuclear power plants can say goodbye to nuclear energy. The news of the World Health Organization also fills me with concern that one of the perpetrators has asked if spray aircraft can be obtained. Maybe to use biological chemicals as an instrument of the attack? Steps must be taken to improve control that better enforce the ban on such weapons. Organic, chemical weapons must finally disappear, these substances must no longer be accessible to terrorists, not even theoretically accessible! This too is a contribution to greater security. We must have been in the 11th century. It's all about September. We must have been in the 11th century. The unthinkable is also thought about September, and we therefore have to deal with these security issues more comprehensively than it may have been before. People have a right to do so. People want us to fight for more security for them. And I think the Austrians should know that we are willing to accept this mission and do everything about it. One last point: Many of us were already in New York. We know this is an open city, a city of different cultures and religions. We have been in touch with the great rally in Yankee Stadium with the mayor of New York, so admired by us, who was working day and night. It has also impressed us all, I believe, very much that, despite this diversity, which determines so much the character of this city, in spite of these many cultures and religions, there is a common attempt to fight against the threat so that New York remains an open city. – We are in solidarity with the Americans, with Washington, but above all with the people of New York!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10701	Mr Spindelegger is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10723	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Often in our lives, there are pictures that are particularly influential. And the pictures of the planes that are locked into the World Trade Center have made people around the world in a very special way, so that today, as I believe, they say: The world has changed! The fact that the United States is choosing a common approach with Russia and China alone shows that something has changed. But I also believe that these pictures have caused changes in many people in Austria. Much of what was so important before comes into the background. Many people today think differently about security issues. And the shock has turned into fear there and there. In my speech, I would like to focus on what people have to say to us politicians, their fears with which we have to deal properly. First: It is said by many people: Do everything so that there is no big war! – These people are completely right. The feeling tells them that a great escalation can have devastating consequences for us all. What can we do to Austrians, what can our policies do to prevent such a war? We are not world power, we do not want and do not want military resources that make us play in the first place here, but we have instruments of foreign policy that we can now use specifically – exactly where it is necessary. In the last 30 years, Austrian foreign policy has established good contacts especially to the Middle East, especially to those countries that are now also involved. I consider the initiative that the Federal Chancellor, together with the Foreign Minister, has begun to hold very close to these countries, in Syria, in Egypt, in Jordan, in Palestine, in Saudi Arabia, with the highest representatives, particularly important. I would like, above all, to express my full recognition and respect for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because she knows what responsibility she has, and because she also contributes in a very appropriate way to bringing about de-escalation for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the past, too, it has been a trademark of Austrian foreign policy to build bridges in such situations, to hold talks, to get away from escalation scenarios. This goes from Bruno Kreisky to Alois Mock in the past, which are in the present day Wolfgang Schüssel and Benita Ferrero-Waldner, who continue this trademark of Austrian foreign policy. And I think we should all support the Federal Government and encourage it to continue this course. Mr Gusenbauer pointed out that we are also responsible for the European Union. I totally agree with him. In the context of the Euromed initiative, there has been considerable funding from the European Union for grants and loans since 1995, which have so far been used in the direction of reconstruction, humanitarian measures and not in the fight against terrorism. I believe that these over 100 billion schillings have been well and properly invested since that time, but you have to consider – I agree – the next Council of Foreign Ministers to what extent new targets can be defined. I therefore think that Austria can contribute to this question, not to conjure up war, to its initiatives by the Foreign Minister and the Federal Chancellor, but also within the framework of the European Union. The second question, which is asked again and again, is: Are we safe in Austria? Do we have a crisis management that works? Shouldn't something else happen here? If we let Revue happen, what's happened since the 11th. September has happened in Austria, I believe all the groups in the House can admit that crisis management has worked very well. At the Federal Chancellor there was the crisis staff where the information coincided. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there was a hotline especially for the relatives, for the friends of people who were in the USA at that time to find out if something happened to them. There were a lot of calls, a lot of immediate help that could be made there. The internal resort not only reviewed the question of airport safety, but also strengthened it. Object protection was and is an issue where we can do a lot. Remarkable things have been done in the Federal Ministry of State Defense. I believe that the ABC defence school and the forces there that would immediately have been ready to fly to the USA to help with mountaining and routing are also a trademark of this Austrian policy of recent years. The fact that airspace monitoring has also been activated shows that this system of crisis prevention and crisis management in Austria is working well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We can therefore say to the Austrians with fug and law: The crisis management is in very good hands with this Federal Government and with the many employees in the ministries. We all know, however, that this does not mean that there can be a flat-rate judgment that nothing can happen in Austria. The Federal Government must continue its efforts. We must try to be as close as possible to everything by means of precautions, and I think that is going very well. The third question, which is often asked, is an invitation to Austrian politics, namely: to stand together in these times of crisis, not to put party policy in the foreground, but to act in common, and also against terrorism in solidarity with all other countries! I see it today as a very good sign on the part of the three large groups of this House to take on a state-bearing role in such a situation and to be aware of their responsibilities. I would particularly like to say this in the direction of SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I believe that Mr Colleague Van der Bellen acted very correctly in his first reaction. He was guided by what he felt. There is no neutrality with regard to terrorism, he said. And he was right, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Meanwhile, the leaf has turned. I do not know who the Greens are responsible for this, but I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, it is not a good way for you to stand outside the consensus that prevails here in this House. I believe that this is what you have done, but Austria too has not done well. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen, argue with the UN Security Council resolution, then this argument goes empty. Anyone who reads what the Security Council has decided to do knows: Clearly, it can't do anything! I'm allowed to quote: "The Security Council expresses its willingness to take all necessary steps to address the terrorist attacks of the 11th century. September 2001 to respond." What do you want? You more? Do you want 15 states to ask Austria to allow overflights? I think we would give up ridiculousness if we asked for such a resolution from the Security Council. What is now required is clarity, a commitment to the fight against terrorism. I really want to invite you to reconsider your position. This consensus in this House during this discussion shows that Austrian parties and Austrian politicians can stand together in such a threat situation. I think it is unfortunate if a political group keeps itself away from this consensus on a long-term basis. I think that if we address these concerns of the Austrians: not a great war, in which crisis prevention ensures the best possible for Austria and is united in such a serious situation, we can all really do well, then we can also be prepared against terrorism.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10841	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10862	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There has never been so much unity in the world in condemning an attack as in this attack. We can almost speak of a global unity, as the UN resolution 1368 shows. I believe that this global unity is also necessary and necessary if we really want to fight terror successfully and sustainably. However, it is also necessary to recognise and understand that terrorists in general – including the terrorists responsible for the attack on the Twin Towers and the Pentagon – should not be assigned to a country that would then be held responsible for the fact that terrorists should not also be assigned to a religious community which would be condemned on a flat-rate basis. That would, I believe, raise the culprit's calculator's bill. That's why I'm saying: There must be a 100% solidarity with the victims. That's why I'm saying: There must be a 100% solidarity in the fight against terrorism. However, there must be no solidarity with those who are only concerned with revenge and retaliation at all costs, according to the motto "The purpose sanctifies the means," goes on. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore welcome the fact that, after the first shock and a probably resulting war rhetoric, the political leaders in the United States of America act very well and very meaningfully. I believe that even in the United States, after the first shock, it has been correctly recognized that terror cannot be defeated by military means. Afghanistan is already a completely destroyed country, what are there still to be achieved by bombs? We, the so-called Western states, will be far more effective in the fight against terrorism than if we get the Islamic states on our side in this fight against terrorism, including them in the fight against terror. We need this coalition with the Islamic states to finally win this fight against terrorism. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is not important to tighten up the separation – I believe that I have now recognized all those responsible – but to strengthen the common position in order to be successful in the fight for the eradication of terrorism. After a first phase, the – undisputed! – will also require the use of weapons, but the international community must also pursue the definition of objectives by which terror is finally removed from the soil. This also includes global economic conditions, which also open up future prospects for poor countries. I believe – perhaps not all of my opinion – that only the poorest who cannot see a future can be recruited by suicide offenders. It is not all that is done in the WTO, for example, that can be regarded as a problem in this context – I believe. Not only trade policy, but also development aid policy and unbridled one-sided globalisation policy have helped to increase the gap between the poor and the rich. In the next few days and weeks, we should think about what Mohammed Fayek, the Secretary General of the Arab Organisation for Human Rights, says: The hegemony of markets on the globalisation process leads certain peoples and regions to monopolize the benefits of globalisation for themselves, leaving their negative consequences to other peoples and regions and thus robbing them of the benefits. - Quote. We need to think about it, we need to discuss it, and then we should jointly define new objectives. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The events of the 11th century. September 2001 should be a starting point for a discussion on the review of relations between cultures and economic areas. Dialogue and not the struggle between cultures promise success for the future. That is why the previous course of action of this Federal Government, the procedure of the Federal Chancellor, the Vice-Cancellor, the Foreign Minister and the Minister responsible for security deserves special recognition, because the procedure of this Federal Government was characterised by discretion, from the very beginning. With the Middle East mission, which the foreign minister is currently in, an Austrian tradition will continue, which could play an important role in resolving international conflicts. The fact that the foreign role of an alliance-free state does not have to be passive has recently shown Federal Minister Ferrero-Waldner as OSCE Chairman and Federal Minister Scheibner with his travels to the Middle East, as already mentioned, by both of them successfully trying to establish contacts that can be of great help and importance right now. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! This federal government, which is leading you with the vice-chancist, has the opportunity to gain even more foreign political weight through activities aimed at integrating the Islamic states into international efforts to eradicate terrorism, which can then be – and this is also important to be mentioned in this debate – also in order to resolve the Middle East problem that needs to be discussed on this issue. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am firmly convinced that this Federal Government will therefore contribute to Austria's final victory over terror and the rooting of the causes of terrorism, thus also contributing to the future stability of peace in the world. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I would like to ask you once again to try to make this request, which we have made very long before this meeting, where we have met you very far and where we have also failed to do much that was originally formulated by us in this motion, so that we can join you in the boat. I would ask you once again to consider, in the sense of the unity quoted by me at the outset, whether this request for which we have made a great effort – and these efforts have also been successful, which shows the fact that the SPÖ has also joined him – cannot also be contributed by you. Please try to understand this request as it is meant, then you can agree to it without any problems. That is why I would like to ask you once again at the end of my remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10974	Mr Pilz is speaking as the next speaker. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10995	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The previous course of this debate has shown – and that is just so appropriate – that in this exceptional situation we do not discuss as opponents. It is not our parliamentary task today to prove what one or the other has done wrong or what is bad, but we have no reason to hide important political differences in this debate. Nevertheless, some common things have been put at the beginning of my remarks. Mr Khol has announced that the two-party initiative proposal for the establishment of a national Security Council should be seriously negotiated with the opposition parties, and this time I have the feeling that this was really serious. We will lead these negotiations so seriously and so towards a joint decision that there will also be this joint establishment of a new Austrian security policy. This assurance can be obtained from us today, Mr Khol, from this speaker's desk. We will negotiate this, and I am absolutely sure that we will reach an agreement. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] One thing, however, has not come out quite clearly in today's debate – I would like to say quite personally – like the USA, the international community of states, the European Union and, of course, Austria have been surprised by the terrorist attacks. The surprise is also important because we have known since the attacks that we have to imagine new international threats if we ourselves want to be able to fight them effectively and in advance in the interests of people, not only those in Austria. For example, I try to imagine that the Temelin nuclear power plant is geared towards possibly overcoming the impact of an aircraft with a total weight of seven tons at a speed of 360 kilometres, even without the greatest accident. The aircraft controlled as live bombs to the World Trade Center and Pentagon had an average total weight of 170 tons and an average travel speed of 850 kilometres. There is no nuclear power plant in Eastern Europe or Western Europe, which would have only the slightest chance to survive an attack of this kind without the greatest possible accident. But to the east of our Republic, with Mochovce, there is a nuclear power plant that does not even have this protection. For this nuclear power plant, terrorists would find the way out with a small single-engine machine to cause the biggest acceptable accident. This, ladies and gentlemen, must also be introduced if we are to re-set the priorities of our Austrian security policy in the discussion on the Austrian Security Doctorate. There we will probably have to put the switch-off and non-operating of border nuclear power plants in the very first place for us in Austria, and there we will have to invest, and there will be five, ten or 20 billion schilling not too little and not badly invested money. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will also have to ask – and this is addressed to the address of three parties and one of my previous speakers – once again the question of the signing of the energy chapter in the accession negotiations with the Czech Republic. This is about risks that may threaten people in our Republic much more acutely than we have ever believed in energy negotiations, and I am looking in particular at the SPÖ and the honourable Member Cap to rethink their position in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! But you also have to imagine something different: Many of the countries supporting international terrorism today have chemicals and bioreactors that make possible a very different kind of attacks. We know that today it is no problem to make Tabun or Sarin in large quantities. However, we also know that the bioreactors have been partly delivered from Austria and that the so-called agricultural chemicals, which form the constituents for the production of toxic gas, have been exported from many European Union countries to Libya, Iraq and other areas. Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to fight terrorism, you must finally imagine it, and you must not say that economic policy is one thing, and the military counter-beat is the other. Whoever does not look at economic policy, financial policy, human rights policy and many others in good time to see that nothing goes wrong and can be abused, he always comes too late with military intervention. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are now facing a situation where we do not know what a military blow will bring. Of course, the United Nations Security Council has granted the United States of America the right to military self-defence. Good. But does that mean that terrorism can be successfully combated? Does this mean that the roots of terror are dried up? – Nothing indicates that! Nothing suggests that if every three years a military blow is fought against terrorism and otherwise completely normal trade, otherwise completely normal arms trafficking, otherwise completely normal energy policy, something will get better. Ladies and gentlemen! We will also have to think about this. I will therefore make a request at this National Council meeting. [[Abg. Brosz submits an application to the speaker who signs it.]] This application is about the financial sources of terrorism. There is, Mr Khol, a UN convention to combat the financial roots of terrorism. There are these conventions, but only four states have ratified them so far: Botswana, Uzbekistan, Sri Lanka and Ireland. The United States has a military counter-beat – and Uzbekistan, Sri Lanka, Botswana, the Republic of Ireland, and the Republic of Austria in the next few days are to fight together the financial roots of international terrorism? The following demand must be made to our American friends: If you want to fight terrorism with us, then finally ratify this Convention and look forward to the end of this year, when the deadline expires, the 22 states have ratified this Convention so that it will enter into force! That is why, Mr President, I am tabling the motion for a resolution on solidarity against terrorism and its funding, which I believe is not enough because it is a copy of all the Members of this House. One last comment: If we defend ourselves against terrorism, we must always know what we are defending. We not only defend people, not only buildings, not only cities and not just our economy, but we also defend the rule of law and democracy. But one, Mr Westenthal, with all the solidarity that appears to be necessary cannot be: You will not get the fingerprints of all Austrians under the title "Terrorism Control"! Those who ask for fingerprints from all people will be subject to something to all people, namely that they must prove their innocence only by handing out the fingerprint. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I don't want her at all!]] In a rule of law, fingerprints are still being taken seriously by suspects of crime and not by completely innocent citizens. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The EU sees this differently!]] I tell you one thing, Mr Westenthaler: If there are attempts to restrict the rights of the people and the rule of law – this time under the title of "Terrorism" – then consensus will cease for us. We are in favour of consensus as long as there is a legal fight against terrorism, but we are not in favour of consensus when democracy and the rule of law themselves are at risk. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11072	Deputies! The motion for a resolution you have announced is short enough for it to be read. I would therefore ask the following speaker from your group, Mrs Lunacek, to bring him in by losing him. The speaking times are as follows: for the two ministers Strasser and Scheibner each 5 minutes, for the remaining time of television transmission for each group per speaker 2 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11099	Mr President. High house! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! There are very few words that mean the most dramatic challenges for a democratic society, for a government, for politics as a whole. One of these words is "war", another is "anxious". But so threatening and plausible the word "war" on television titles, in speeches, on transparency since the 11. September 2001 must experience an eerie economy, so quietly and quietly the word "anger" takes more and more space. The horror may leave, but the fear remains. It is therefore one of the first and most important tasks of a country, the Republic, to give its own citizens security and security. Whoever wants to give security must be afraid, for fear is not only the opposite of security, fear is also the enemy of freedom. We will only do so if we address them and express them if we accept them and take them seriously, ladies and gentlemen. Every look at the international reports of the last 15 days shows that on the one hand there are truly enough reasons to be afraid. On the other hand, an objective, sober analysis of the security situation in Austria shows that there is currently no evidence that there are cross-links of these terrorist attacks to Austria. In general, we also have the legal provisions and instruments to protect our citizens in the best possible way and to defend our rule of law. But it must be clear for all precautions: Just because we know that there can be no 100% security, we, the Austrian security device and the Austrian federal army – thank you, Herbert Scheibner, your men and women – will try 120 percent to do the humane thing to ensure safety. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, immediately after the terrorist attack, we have increased security measures for sensitive areas: We have strengthened border controls, we have sensitized the foreign police, we have established appropriate coordination within our home and the Federal Government. Secondly, we have ensured that a comprehensive package of measures at European level is adopted. We will continue to follow everyone, even the smallest indication of any such movements in Austria with repressive and consequential. We will make corrections where it appears necessary. We're thinking about the levy on terrorists. On this occasion, honourable Members, Mr Pilz, I should like to say: Many more states have already signed this convention that you have addressed. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: But not ratified!]] It is true that they have not ratified all these states. That's a big difference! [[Abg. May. Lunacek: This is necessary for you to apply it!]] We now have to take full care that we are prepared for all the events that could still come to us and the international situation in the coming weeks. As determined as we are in the fight against terrorism, we must be sensible when it comes to protecting the democratic rule of law. There is not only the fear of attacks, there is also the concern about our right to freedom, and both want and we must take very seriously. In this sense, the Austrian security device will continue to fully protect the rights of freedom and the security of the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11159	Mr Scheibner is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11181	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks and also my appreciation for the way in which you have conducted this debate so far in response to the terrible terrorist attack in the United States, and how you have expressed a clear commitment to this terror, to all kinds of terrorism and crimes against humanity here in great detail and with great commonness. I think this is exemplary. It is also necessary for us, together with the democratic community of states, to send these signals against terrorism. [[It is a pleasure for the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as for representatives of the SPÖ.]] May the backmen of the terrible terrorist attacks against the United States believe that they have succeeded, but they will not succeed, and they must not succeed. They cannot achieve the consequences they wanted to bring, such as destabilisation of the democratic community of states, a division of political groups, a division of individual nations, a awakening of feelings and resentments, and, of course, an undistorted or unthinked military response to this terrorist attack, and thus a further destabilization in various Islamic states. I am very glad – we are all very happy – that exactly these factors have not occurred. We cannot let such crimes destabilize us! We are not divided by this, but quite the contrary: A new cohesion has been created that can give hope for the future. States that have been against each other are now suddenly in a boat, are now on a line against terrorism. States which have always feared that there could also be support for terrorism, for organised crime, give a clear commitment to such support. All those who have repeatedly been very critical of the United States can now see that, of course, one has to show a similar rhetoric – probably also to show – that, however, one is very precise, very careful and with clear consequence and, above all, with a possible predictability of effective measures will make a response targeting it, in accordance with the democratic community of states. A reaction is necessary because everything else would be seen by the causers and their backmen only as a sign of weakness and as an invitation to further activities. The reaction must be comprehensive – and I agree with all the speakers who have referred to it – because not only can we combat the effect of this terrorism, but we must also address its causes or seek a solution to the causes. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These causes lie in the crisis areas of the world, where the democratic community has missed much. There is a need to present politically realistic proposals for solutions, but they also need to be implemented with the appropriate emphasis. On the other hand, however, a clear response must take place, but it must also be comprehensive. It cannot remain without our reaction if one has to fear that these terrorists and their backmen, with this terrible attack, probably still deserved a fortune through speculation on the international stock markets. It cannot be seen that precisely this international organised crime, through the flows of refugees, which are now being set in motion, is once again worth millions and perhaps even billions, more than it deserves through, for example, international drug trafficking. There must be a concerted common response here. And in Austria, we should continue with the cohesion, the national consensus which is now apparent on some issues, such as the National Security Council, such as the Security and Defence Doctrine, on all matters of security and defence policy. There is no place here and there must not be a place for party politics, but here we have the responsibility to do everything we need to do to exclude a threat to Austria as far as it goes. The executive and the Austrian Federal Army are in favour of ensuring this security for Austria. Here, of course, there is also a need for as broad an international cooperation as possible. Give us the hold, we will ensure that the population in Austria can live safely in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11244	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Prammer. Your speaking time is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11265	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! In two minutes it is very difficult to say what moves us all, of course, in times like this. I think that's 11th. September not only with us politicians, but with all people – worldwide – I would like to say, and of course also in Austria – has left such an impression that will accompany us for decades. We experience this every day when we discuss with people who are giving us this 11. September minutely in their own experience can describe who know exactly how this day has expired, also for them personally. This impression, I believe, must also inspire us – and I want to be very quick now – not only to discuss in detail the difficult and now very detailed questions and to find answers to them, but also to show the sense of what honourable Member Klobobmann Khol has already said, namely to continue to raise the right questions consistently: the questions about human rights, the questions as Klobobmann Gusenbauer has already said, an Afghanistan where people have lived and live in different environments over the last twenty years, where women have been stoned and the world community has long enough looked away. This too is an issue that we should discuss in times like this, and I am confident that we will also show this commonness, which we have shown here today, sometime in the future. We owe this to people not only in Austria, but worldwide.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11304	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11325	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that today's debate has so far shown a new climate of interdependence, a new climate of reality, a new climate of mutual understanding. I am delighted about this and would be very pleased – I would like to express this appeal – if we had this new climate not only for the very important issues of security policy, but also for those areas which come second in terms of existential security, namely economic issues, job security, the protection of income opportunities and social security. If American bank President Alan Greenspan said that the American economy was hard hit by these terrorist attacks, that could not be without any impact on the European economy. We must therefore be all the more united in the field of economic policy. I am very glad that the Federal Government has taken a whole package of offensive structural measures, and we will continue in budgetary policy this course of reliability and confidence in ensuring full employment without new debts. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen of both opposition parties, to maintain the current climate of reality and understanding, to join forces with one another in the future also on the issue of jobs, income opportunities and social security.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11361	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11383	Ladies and gentlemen! The horror that there can be such an attack at all quickly followed the horror that terrorists, violent parts of Islam in the West were able to settle and here had the opportunity to attend universities, that they had even acquired citizenship and planned their death work here in peace. The conclusion of this realization is that we need to be careful that today we do not support those who are the terrorists of tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen! This attack also shows that it is not possible to support terrorist organisations in a wink way. At this point I would like to address my appeal to the SPÖ. Every year, we have actually seen quite bitterly that you give the PKK the opportunity to march with transparents at your 1st May march with hare sparols. Separate from it! Violence must be condemned in all cases! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That we have reason to be careful in Austria also shows an extract from the security report. The Minister of the Interior writes: Victims of a radical terrorist organisation may be on call to carry out terrorist actions in Austria or in neighbouring countries. – There is every reason to be attentive! I am glad that the Federal Chancellor and Mrs Vice-Chancellor have also considered how to attack and see immigration policy, asylum policy, security policy from these new aspects. Mr Pilz, ladies and gentlemen. They have already seen how the rule of law is weakening when fingerprints are taken by the citizens or now an international arrest warrant is to be made possible. The rule of law is only in danger if the controls are not observed, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11427	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11448	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mrs. Partik-Pablé! For you only a short time: The rule of law is in danger when methods, as proposed by the FPÖ, are introduced, which cannot then be controlled. [[Contradict with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: You are no longer to help!]] [[Abg. Achatz: You can't leave it!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Tasteless!]] If you say how you once did, that just system critics did not leave the country – that was related to Afghanistan at the time – then I hope you have changed your opinion on this. Moreover, I hope that you will now be the same as we Greens, namely that refugees from Afghanistan who apply for asylum in the Austrian embassies in Islamabad or Tehran will not be rejected, as has been the case in recent months and years, but that they will be recognized as refugees. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Against terrorism, Greens are in no way neutral, but that does not mean that we approve of war preparations or war operations. This must not be because war is not an appropriate means of combating terrorism, and that is widely known. It takes legal proceedings, it needs evidence, an indictment has to be filed, there has to be an international arrest warrant, and then police actions, possibly with military assistance, are possible, but a second decision of the Security Council is necessary. However, what is urgently needed is a new foreign policy, which is also coherently designed by external trade, external economic policy, where it is clear that respect for human rights, democracy must be guaranteed that there must be no exclusion from women. There is a need for an Austrian economic and trade policy under foreign policy criteria. That is why we are also trying to maintain a Foreign Council in addition to a Security Council, because foreign policy issues are not just security issues. Especially in times like this, a foreign culture policy is necessary. For example, such a thing should be discussed in a Foreign Council, and I very much hope that the signal, also from Dr. Khol, will come to an agreement in this direction. One last thing: Refugees. As requested today by UNHCR, Austria is said to double its contributions to the UN High Commissioner. We're standing here at 26. Job. That doesn't make Austria fair. We need to double these contributions to help refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11522	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Ein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11544	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! Today's debate has been a good sign for this Parliament. I think it was a good day for this Parliament, because it has been shown that it is possible, in the face of such an inconceivable terrorist attack, but much of the party hack, which is sometimes not exactly the case for our debates. It was possible to establish common foundations on essential issues relating to security for people in this country, but also to the fight against terrorism. I think that's important. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] We Socialists have been in favour of this for some time and continue to support the fact that we should try to find a common basis for Austrian politics on essential issues of foreign and security policy, because a small state will only be able to be perceived as trustworthy in the international context if there is a common basis on the most essential issues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We would like this attitude of discretion to be displayed by all parties involved. And I do not want to acknowledge your attitude, Mr President-in-Office, in the last few days, because it was characterized by discretion and sobriety, and that has done us well in these days. I think that this kind of discretion and this type of consensus-making could be of great benefit to the further policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! Today, I have been asked by journalists whether this climate, which we have all seen today and to which everyone has tried to contribute, would already be a sign of a fundamental change in the relationship between the government parties and the opposition. I think that an answer to this question cannot yet be given, but there are some signs in this direction. In this regard, we are bright and would be pleased if these signs, which were visible and audible today, were indeed to emerge as a concrete offer of real agreements or would show that there is a real interplay, especially in the question of the so-called Security Doctor. There will be a need for movement, and there will be evidence of the seriousness of today’s announcements. High house! But on this occasion and all the recognition of what has been done in the last 14 days, let me also say, of course, that you can also have the impression that some have failed. I was a little shocked that very quickly there was a lot of gripping slogans, such as: There can be no neutrality towards terrorism! – This is a truth because there can be no indifference to terrorism, but it was at the same time a game with neutrality, and that has prohibited itself under these conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We have not deliberately put this question at the heart of our discussions, because it is a question of law-abiding measures, because police measures are not at all about this issue. That is why we would have wished if this question had not been raised, for example. And we would also have wished that the Vice-Cancecian today would not have classified neutrality in an adversarial sentence as "stand out everywhere," because neutrality means that we do not participate in wars, and that is very, very much more than what you, Mrs. Vice-Cancellor, have poured over it today as Schlenker. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Finally, let me address another point: Yes, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, there is no justification for terrorism – you have said the reference to a guest contribution by Hans Peter Martin. There is really no justification for this or any other terrorism, which is such a humane one. There is no justification as usual, but – your party colleague and defense minister Scheibner has not mentioned this for the first time today – there is a story, there are conditions that favour it, there are framework conditions that unfortunately make it more likely that such things happen. I think we will have to deal with these questions together. If, on the basis of this horrendous attack, we succeed in establishing a solidarity of 180 states on this earth in order to combat terrorism, we should also be in the process of this coalition of 180 states and be committed to ensuring that the same Community is committed to social, political and democratic conditions in this world, because this would significantly improve our security.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11630	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11651	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today it draws like a red thread through the speeches: The 11th. September 2001 has fundamentally changed the world, and it would be nice if something would change here in our house so that we can discuss these questions much more objectively – at least so far it has this appearance. The terrorist attacks in Manhattan and Washington have reached an unprecedented dimension: Over 7,000 people have died. And this was not about military facilities, but about how to kill the largest possible number of people in this area with attacks. These horrendous terrorist attacks have also deeply shaken and shocked our citizens in Austria. In the case of so unscrupulous murderers, we must help to bring together the backmen and clients of a just punishment. International terrorists have also committed attacks in Austria – I remember the OPEC robbery. The citizens of our country therefore rightly expect the greatest possible security to be provided for foreign terrorist attacks. In the meantime, there are already warnings from the World Health Organization about biological and chemical attacks that are quite possible. Suspected persons have already inquired about the possibilities of such spraying aircraft. In Austria, there are currently no such aircraft – that would be absurd, because we have so small structured agriculture that no pest control can be operated on aircraft – but our neighbouring countries own such aircraft. Therefore, as a precautionary measure, our airspace for such aircraft was rightly locked. [[Abg. But George!]] However, compliance with this barrier must only be carried out with airspace surveillance aircraft. The Austrian government has proved a good crisis management and has acted wisely and carefully. [[New call for tender of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Deputies! I have an IMAS survey here that shows that the population in Austria is very concerned and afraid of such attacks. However, something from this IMAS survey is pleasing to me, namely that confidence in Austrian agriculture is very high. Among the 15 questions were as follows: Do you think there will be a shortage of food?, and only 1 percent of 2 288 people surveyed thought it would be very likely that food shortages will occur, while other questions such as: Do you think that you will be more closely observed by the people living with us from Arab countries?, 50 percent with "very likely" and 36 percent with "very likely". That is, 86 percent of respondents expect that. Or: Do you believe that the government will be passed more stringent laws to ensure the order? 23 percent said that was very likely, and 34 percent said: pretty likely. That is, 57 percent of the population expect the government to pass stricter laws on this issue. As mentioned above, the government has shown good crisis management. We, the Parliament, will, however, be able to fight the international network of terrorists from us with all the means necessary to do so. And one thing is gratifying: The news just came that Israeli Foreign Minister Peres and Palestinian President Arafat had decided this morning a ceasefire, an indefinite ceasefire. These are light-blicks in this so sad situation, in which we have been since these terrorist attacks, because no country in the world knows where the next attacks, the next victims are to be feared. I think we can thank our government for their steps. The Austrian population will be guaranteed with all available possibilities. The government is called on to give security, but it is by no means intended to insure the people on the occasion of these attacks.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11698	The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11719	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The terrible terrorist attack carried out in New York almost two weeks ago probably triggered different feelings in each of us. At first it was often indisputable about unscrupulousness and also the brutality with which many thousand people, far away from the scenes of the conflicts, were involved as victims. Then, with probably all the compassion with the victims or even more with their relatives – and with the first attempts to deal rationally with the consequences of this act, a initially immense sense of helplessness towards such suicide attacks was present, for which every modern society is more vulnerable than ever. We should not believe that with precautions we can ever eliminate any threat. We must be aware of that. Further, it was about expressing our sympathy for the main victims in the USA – threatened by further threats to us all – not only our compassion, but also our appropriate solidarity. "Suitable solidarity" I say consciously because, under the impression of the images from New York, words such as "unconditional support" and the like were also used. I am firmly convinced that no government of a free state can make such unconditional commitments. Each government has to verify its legality, not least in relation to international law, and to keep in mind its effectiveness for its own people. And I'm convinced that's what our government is doing. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Many of us, after the first statements from the USA, were concerned that the many thousand victims that the United States had for the first time had to complain in its history in the mother country itself could be overreacted. Some words, such as those of the Deputy Minister of Defense, were afraid that in a kind of round-up one would now try to solve the problem of "surk states" in the U.S. division. This would have meant not only the fight against terrorism, but also war from North Africa to the Indian Ocean and many other unparticipated countries. Also the words of the President of the United States, who rejoiced by Members, said: Whoever is not for us is against us!, were not soothing and can not be contradicted as far as the demands are concerned. However, I believe that they can be seen under the impression of the domestic situation in the US and were also primarily that way. The actions of the U.S. administration have so far appeared sensible and thoughtful – Mr. Gusenbauer has already mentioned this. There were no hip shots, and the words of the Foreign Minister, evidently a former general, suggest that the planned actions are targeted and without irresistible collateral damage. However, the first blows will only show conditional effects. We even need to focus on new acts of terror, and this is probably the world over. The fight against them will take a long time and must be led at many levels, from the economy to surgical military strikes, and needs international cooperation. But in the face of all fear and aversion to actions, even if we are still under their direct influence, we must not lose sight of their fight. The democratic rights of our citizens must not be easily restricted. First of all, let us check – the Minister of the Interior mentioned this earlier – whether our instruments are enough for them anyway. As much security as necessary, but as much freedom as possible must continue to be the principle of our action. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] European cooperation in the fight against terrorism must therefore not, in all cases, exceed our growing legal system; in this context, too, the European arrest warrant will have to be reviewed very critically. However, we must also learn how easily we can be thrown into terror and war from the deepest peace, and must not forget how it happened in the past, far too quickly, a few days, months after the crises, who had to deal with the crises, and that a suitable and manageable instrument is necessary to do so. Finally, I would like to stress one more point – Mr One pointed out earlier – that: It is reassuring to see that, under the impression of these terrible events, the Austrian parties find the way to consensus, and I can only hope, as the chairman of the committee responsible for the treatment of the Security Doctrine, that we find ourselves on the way there in common. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The next few months will bring us difficult and important decisions. They will put us in great trouble, because the real problems for us come first. If you want something bad in China, you say, May you live in interesting times! In this sense, we are currently living in interesting times. Let us try to deal with them together!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11786	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11807	Ladies and gentlemen! In the face of the terrorist attack, which has caused shock worldwide, there has been a debate in the National Council today, which was characterized by sound tones, from a certain thoughtfulness and also distance to a militant rhetoric, which I have greatly appreciated – except for a few exceptions, as is unfortunately the case again and again. [[Call to the Freeman:Lunacek!]] In relation to the war rhetoric here in this House, it has been mentioned several times that it is harmful and dangerous in this case, and it has been said that it follows an internal logic of the USA, as my previous speaker Jung mentioned. I think that is one of the most important points of approach. It can no longer be an excuse for all of us, for the United States, but also for us, to carry out external escalation from an internal, state logic on the world stage, because this creates a climate that will allow the very hands to rub themselves, which in the background have prepared these terrorist attacks. They feel justified by that. Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, this is one of the most important fishing points. An end to this war rhetoric, an end to war preparations, an end to all of this is more than necessary and an essential prerequisite for the fight against terrorism worldwide! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can also tell you why this is so important to me. A consistent de-escalation is necessary to keep the global coalition of many states against terrorism on all continents. On the other hand, an escalation against individual states – and I am now deliberately speaking of states – leads to destabilization in a region characterized by partially lavish regimes, which, however, have nuclear weapons. And in the discussions I have conducted in the last days and weeks following this attack, the question has been asked again and again: What do we do if, for example, crises occur in Pakistan when governments fall when the state of Pakistan feels threatened? They have nuclear weapons! And what do the Kashmiri do when the conflict between India and Pakistan is again escalating as a result? Ladies and gentlemen! The consequences would be inevitable and unimaginable. Therefore, it was also my concern that Austria, because of its legitimacy as a neutral state – which in fact would have to raise a corresponding demand in this regard – would become increasingly de-escalizing on the international stage, in all international bodies, and thus will only create the conditions for the terrorists who have caused this event to be truly grasped and for the fight against terror! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This brings me to a point that is particularly important to me. In the Western world, we have usually experienced a certain tolerance when it comes to money transactions. Under the motto "money has no mascherl" or "money stops the morale" the eyes were closed for years before the development of the financing of terrorist networks. Ladies and gentlemen! I demand that the sentence that money ceases to be morals should now be heard in the past and that this should also be reflected in concrete actions in Austria! I now put in full text the proposal that Mr Pilz has already outlined in the main guidelines: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this area, drying out the sources is something we really need to do. Finally, to fight opaque financial conglomerates with the appropriate resources is a task that is necessary. He can work and succeed if at the same time the war rhetoric finally ceases! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11880	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is sufficiently supported, and is therefore sufficient to deal with the matter or vote. The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11904	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It is absolutely a priority in these days that there is a consensus in our country and that common and determined action is being taken against the risk of terrorism. Of course, we fully support the efforts of the Austrian executive to maintain public security. However, it is our task to point out any concerns we may have, to make proposals for improvement, and to point out safety mankos. I therefore believe that the government needs to be invited to present a comprehensive report on the structures of disaster prevention in Austria. If we want to close security gaps, we all need to be better informed. Ladies and gentlemen! There are concerns on the part of SPÖ about the plans of the Minister of the Interior regarding the reform of the State Police. The Minister of the Interior must finally find clear words here and put the facts on the table. I think that the state police, i.e. a civil executive body, are clearly responsible for the protection of state institutions and the fight against terrorism by law. In all the military considerations presented here by Mr Jung, for example: In the fight against terrorism, there must be a strict separation of military and civil services, as is the case throughout Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any event, parliamentary control must also be sufficient. We also advocate international cooperation, but above all in the civil sector. High house! Social democracy has always warned against neglecting security policy under the self-imposed pressure of the zero deficit. Now it turns out that it was wrong to cut down the safety standards to a minimum without remembering that there could be crises even once. A small example: I was visiting the security forces of the airport in Vienna-Swechat on the last Friday, as was the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Minister of the Interior – only without cameras, but for a little longer than two minutes. I was informed that 15 000 employees and 12.5 million passengers per year only speak and write to four staff officials there. But I remember exactly: At the end of the year, the Minister of the Interior has celebrated that he has saved 65 million Schilling from the Vienna-Schwechat airport due to this measure and the withdrawal of many security guards. Federal Chancellor! Today, this government knows: That was saving in the wrong place, so, due to the current political development, 90 executive forces of the BWD-sweed had to be assigned to the service. Now, of course, that's an additional cost. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ has always warned against saving at the expense of security. This also applies to comprehensive security in the regions. To date, it was to be feared that a pooling of forces could create security holes in rural areas in a future Federal Criminal Office. Due to the current crisis, this danger has increased even more. I can only ask the Minister of the Interior from this point of view – unfortunately he is no longer present – to rethink his course, namely the closure of Gendarmerie Posts, Commissioners and police guards. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has today said quite correctly that we owe thanks and respect to the police and the Gendarmen. But I'm asking you: Is this respect given when Gendarmen and police are referred to as "Indians" when one returns 1,000 to their careers, when one no longer wants to pay them overtime, and when one saves over 2,000 executives? High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the present precarious situation, one must not fall into the mistake of acting unwisely. Today, there has been a number of discussions about reason. It must not come to an event law! Under the impression of the disaster, the rights of citizens in that state, for example by means of a rigid extended risk study, must not be eroded by rapid measures. In any event, legal protection needs to be improved, as the situation is not satisfactory at present. In this context, I should only like to remind you of the presence of the Minister of the Interior in the appointment of a legal protection officer. High house! The aim of all parties must now be to protect citizens from two things: from the restriction of security, but also from the restriction of their freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11977	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11999	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mr President. High house! It is a good experience to have this discussion today in the face of the insanity of New York and Washington in a climate of commonness and understanding. It is pleasant to be able to make this experience, and I think that this style can also be indicative for next discussions, because it would always be good to practice a little more restraint in the words that fall in this or this House or from one Member to the other. I would like to join this climate and point out that it is up to all of us to discuss security policy across party borders, but also to see what efforts our country, our government, the ministers responsible, but also our Members have made to stop terrorism or other dangers. I am all the more surprised, Mr Parnigoni, that you thought the safety standards had been reduced to a minimum under Mr Strasser, although we all know that the opposite is the case. [[Mr Oellinger and Mr Parnigoni have been very cheerful.]] [[Abg. You don't believe that!]] I would like to remind you – even if I make you laugh – that social democracy leaders did not always respond to the security of our country during the summer when the issues of airspace surveillance or the federal army were discussed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion, let me come back to the need for the discussed Security Doctrine and the Security Plan. At present, the 1975 Security Doctor is still valid. It dates from a time when the world in East and West was divided into two camps, from a time when quite different requirements for Austria and similar neutral states have been met, from a time when we have essentially taken into account the comprehensive state defense – the spiritual, the civilian, the economic and the military. I believe that we should also see a corresponding value in the future Security Doctrine in the context of the intellectual and civil defence. It is about drawing our fellow citizens' attention to drawing the attention of children in schools to the fact that a positive mental attitude to national defence is something quite necessary to security policy so that security policy for the population – as far as possible for all Austrians – is a priority. It has happened a lot in these 25, 26 years. I only remember the year 1990 when the Warsaw Pact was destroyed, when it ended with the dictatorial left regimes, with Communism. And I should like to remind you that in 1995 we joined the European Union, the Union of Peace, and thus also the Peace Organisations, that we will sign and participate in the Amsterdam Treaties, the Petersberg tasks or the Partnership for Peace, and that solidarity for us Austrians has now become quite different from that in the past. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The main objective of the discussion on a new Security Doctor – the Federal Government has received an analysis from the experts – is that one has been transferred from the Defense Doctor to the Security Doctor and that one has done a much wider work on security policy, including foreign policy, internal policy, economic and social policy, in order to analyse the location, the position of Austria and to draw the corresponding consequences. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I have too little time to speak to you today, but I would like to point out that terrorism is already playing a special role in the analysis, but also in the consequences of having to play an appropriate role in the doctrine, that we must be prepared to draw consequences from it, in terms of how we formulate this doctrine and shape security policy. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Our citizens, the Austrians and Austrians, have a right to know what consequences we are taking from the analysis of the security situation of Austria and that we are defining the next step, namely to draw attention, to show what the concrete security policy steps in our country are – and to continue the security doctor. I should like to point out once again, especially today and under the impression of the terrorist insanity states, of the terrorist events, that the Security Doctor must be our common will and that the government parties invite the opposition again to decide here a common security doctor, so that we are not forced to take this step alone, but so that we take many common steps in the sense of Austrian security.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12058	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12080	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Federal Chancellor! High house! ==References== In September, the symbols of the United States of America were destroyed by a criminal terrorist attack. The towers of the World Trade Center cover thousands of dead, and the Pentagon, the heart of the U.S. military superpower, is severely damaged. The question that politicians and publishers have been asking themselves since then is: Are the wars being replaced in our time as the major military struggles of the states by a multitude of civil wars? Or are we actually at the beginning of a war of cultures, as announced by American university professor Samuel Huntington a decade ago? Huntington explained his thesis in the work "The Clash of Civilizations": He believes that the time of the wars within the Western cultural circle is over, and in its place conflicts occur on the lines between the different cultural circles. And he predicted that the most violent struggle would probably develop between the so-called West and the Islamic world. Ladies and gentlemen! This thesis has a lot of things for itself. The dramatically accelerated globalisation has led to an incredible networking of the world and thus also to a fight for hegemony. Islamic fundamentalists not only question the domination of the United States of America in this new world order, but even challenge it with the jihad, the holy Islamic war. Such a discussion – I see this as a historian – is a matter of a very basic nature. It is about the view of Western democracy and the claim of Western values, which are largely influenced by the ideas of Enlightenment, Humanism, but also by the ideas of human rights. Islam is opposed to this in all its forms. Islam, as we know, is not a religion in the western sense, it is at the same time a political and social doctrine. The Islamic state of God, such as Ayatollah Khomeini, the Persian revolutionary leader, or now the Taliban, is the exact opposite of Western secularism in the so-called evening country. Carl Gustav Ströhm has aptly described the feeling of life of many Muslims, and I would like to quote from an article by him. He writes: "The West forgets that precisely its precision, its sometimes questionable shine, its wealth and its power in the Islamic masses, but also especially among the young Islamic generation, trigger a feeling of inadequacy and inferiorities. These people always feel humiliated, hurt in their pride. With smiling carelessness, which could also be described as brutality, the West dramatically leads the Muslims to see that they are inferior: economically as well as militaryly. Every Israeli tank rolling through a Palestinian village that remains unattended for stone-throwers and even gunshots, every American warship in the Persian Gulf represents a provocation for these people." - Quote. As far as Carl Gustav Ströhm is concerned. I therefore come to a second aspect of this discussion, namely the question of immigration and the problems associated with it. Over ten million immigrants have taken up the US over the past 20 years, many from the Middle East and the Middle East. The United States often considered the melting pot of the peoples to be an experimental field for multicultural experiments. In the meantime, we know where this immigration led: The social and political tensions have increased, but not to the extent as the last. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Now it's going to be extreme!]] For Austrian security policy, this means that we have to consider exactly who in Europe, who is allowed to immigrate in Austria, and what problems we may face with immigration. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Lichtenberger and Dr. Petrovic.]] The Austrian Federal Government, I believe, is completely right in its "integration is against new immigration", and the Austrian people, ladies and gentlemen, have a right to be protected from street battles, as we experienced years ago between Turks and Kurds on Austrian soil.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12150	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12168	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For me, it was a very valuable experience to find out what the mood in the population – especially in the population in our country – has widened as a result of this horrific terrorist attack in the USA. The mood in the Austrian population was marked by grief and distress, solidarity to the victims, to the victims' families and to a severely shocked American population. Interestingly, it did not come in Austria and beyond, as one might have feared, to call for a total, after a rapid, violent, military counter-beat. On the contrary: In many discussions it became clear to me that in many parts of the Austrian population there is great concern precisely about such a counter-beat. Many people have asked themselves the questions: What would really trigger such a counter-beat? What dynamic would be set in motion with it worldwide? It would set an endless spiral of violence and counter-violence in motion. It would set in motion a dynamics that would call for hundreds, thousands of victims, but determined people would probably not stop such insane attacks to carry out terrorist attacks. There is a danger that such a spiral of violence would result in a situation in which the population would have to live in constant fear. Therefore, the attitude of mind, which, at least so far, is becoming increasingly apparent, is of great importance, and it is hoped that this mind will continue to prevail, and not the logic that has stood behind the strong words of the first days. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] Nevertheless, there is also great concern as to how the migration between the necessary fight against terrorism on the one hand and the safeguarding of fundamental and freedom on the other. This is not only discussed in Austria, but of course also in Austria. There is concern that measures are now being put in place that promise protection against terrorism, although they cannot offer it, but that they put at risk and limit the valuable good of freedom. Against this background, we also need to see how the steps are being implemented, which are now being announced. How can all this be seen if, in the context of the concern, for example, my previous speaker at once speaks of the multicultural society that has been "burdened" in New York, when he speaks of what has been "needed" with this immigration policy? – It derives from the fact that we in our country should make a more restrictive immigration policy. Are these already the first signs of restriction of freedom – under the guise of these terrible events? How do we evaluate it when "finger prints" are spoken of, as that means now? It's just about fingerprints – fingerprints that everyone should suspect. How can it be assessed if there is a simple continuation of noise attack and grid suspension without a discussion phase, without evaluation of the trial phase? They will understand that these are not really trusting steps. There are even voices that believe that the increased security needs of the population would now be misused to enforce things that have been planned for a long time. That is why I call on the political groups of the Government, the members of the government, the care and thoughtfulness that marked this debate on a large scale today to include in the concrete political steps you will take in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12244	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12265	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! ==References== I put myself in my car at three o'clock in the afternoon in front of Parliament, and as usual I turned up the radio. The Burgenland hour was on the program, and Barbara Maras-Egermann, an Upper Pulverdorfer, child of my home community, has moderated. A few minutes later, as thousands of millions of people were informed about what happened in the United States, what happened in New York and then in Washington. The USA as a target of terror – this is something that meets all of us deep in the heart. But also Austria – and Mrs. Vice-Chancellor mentioned it in her speech – is like the United States has already been the target of terror in the past: In this context, we think of the murder of city councillor Heinz Nittel, we think of the OPEC robbery, the attack on the Jewish synagogue or the raid on the Schwechater airport. It has always been terrorists who have threatened security in our country. That is why the answer to what has happened in the United States is the answer to what has happened in Austria, an answer that policy has to give. In the last two hours, Mr. Federal Chancellor, I have received four calls from Burgenländer, who have followed today's discussion on television, and I have heard for the first time – and I want to express this – something that fills me with joy, which will fill everyone in this room with joy – you too, Mr. Federal Chancellor: They have been enthusiastic about the tone and content of the statements, but also about the conclusions, and their question was: Why aren't you always that way? So the occasion will be discussed in the House, and that is a good thing. The crisis management that the United States has accomplished in these last two weeks has, in my opinion, really worked. It is done by thousands of investigators in an acrybian way: Evidence is collected, seen, conclusions are presented, assumptions are put on the table, which ultimately condense into facts. And, as the Federal Chancellor said, the United States is cooperating with its partners in the EU and worldwide. They are informed and, we all hope, in their assessment, above all in their reactions to it. Federal Chancellor! The Ten Points Plan, which you presented on the occasion of your speech, is – and I expressly say this as the last speaker of the Austrian People's Party and its security spokesperson – the full, full support of this group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, we also welcome the arrangements that the Minister of the Interior has made in this context, for example by mandateing the Stapo to intensify the investigations intensively – and very, very intensively – when it comes to observations in the field of the extremist scene with Islamic ideology in Austria. All those who are members of the Stapo Committee know that it has never been good to allow extremisms in this country. But we also feel that as a simple person: that extremism is neither from the right nor from the left the way that this country wants to go. We are working towards the stable middle, and that is the way we are taking along with the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to pay tribute – and I expressly say so – to the SPÖ's contributions today. The analogy made by Klubobmann Gusenbauer regarding the Marshall Plan to the Powell Plan for the Middle East was interesting to me. There will be talk about it. However, I cannot identify with the rejection of the Greens, and it is the sharpest critic within the Greens who, with their attitude, especially with the attitude of Alexander Van der Bellens, is keenest in court. I quote in the following Voggenhuber: ==References====External links== September, the position of his party is not only not appropriate to the seriousness of the situation; he, Voggenhuber, even believes that it is a pity to neutrality if it is made a means of eviction, and that it is also a mistake in a very, very critical decision which, not least, also harms the government of the Greens. – This is what Voggenhuber says to the address of its own party leader! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That was right!]] The United States, ladies and gentlemen, is hit, but they are not faltering. Democracy has been hit, but it will remain defensive. I and, I assume, all of you, ladies and gentlemen, as well as all the people in this country, we do not want to experience it as a repetition of the events of the 11th century. ==References== Let us work together to ensure that this does not happen!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12317	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12338	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The deep distress and the outrage over the terrible terrorist attacks in the US is one that we are now across the party borders. We all demonstrated to the American people at the beginning of the session our deep participation for the many victims of this crime. But we must not close our eyes to reality in all of this. This attack, my Ladies and gentlemen, not only has it been against the US, but it has been an attack against the entire democratic community of states and values. It is therefore necessary, in a broad solidarity, to help deal with this disaster and to be determined to oppose international terrorism and its sympathizers and supporters. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We liberals assume that the necessary responses to this terrorist act will be targeted, by appropriate means and on the basis of the decisions and resolutions of the international community. Austria, according to its possibilities in the humanitarian and logistic field, is to demonstrate its solidarity effectively, because international-connected terrorism has become a global problem – whether we want to recognise it for political reasons or not – to which it is necessary to combat it, to form a close cooperation of the democratic community of states. The cooperation of security forces and intelligence services is therefore a command of the hour. Crisis prevention and the enforcement of political and economic solutions for conflict regions – and this has already been tailor-made today – especially in the Middle East, can escape terrorism. Within the European Union too, these current threat scenarios need to be more taken into account in building a European security and defence policy, and in Austria, too, these violent fundamentalist and extremist groups must be taken decisively into account. A flat-rate criminalization of religious communities – and this has already been clearly expressed by the speakers of our party – must be rejected from the point of view of us liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also necessary to constantly evaluate and optimise the capacity to protect the population and the vital infrastructure, as well as the willingness of the disaster protection forces to use. There is also a need for close cooperation, professional training and a modern provision of the relevant institutions, especially of executives and federal authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! However, we parliamentarians today should not only make demands on the governments about us, but also have a very specific responsibility. Mr Murauer has already mentioned this: We are currently working intensively on the analysis part of a new Security and Defence Doctor, and in this analysis section are already presented those threats that have unfortunately become God's sad reality. The main security challenges are already mentioned there, and they are: Proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, destabilisation of arms development, totalitarian ideologies and fundamentalist religions, political fragmentation phenomena associated with an erosion of state action and order, international organised crime, environmental hazards, population development and migration, energy and resource problems and food problems. Ladies and gentlemen! They should recognise that this analysis, as presented by the Government, is a comprehensive one. We should therefore also cooperate quickly and consistently in the preparation of a new Security and Defence Doctrine in the Subcommittee, which has been set up in the National Defence Committee. I believe that we, as MEPs, are guilty of this to our people.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12404	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12426	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Minister! High house! I do not think anyone who has seen the images of the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington – and the whole world has been able to experience these terrorist attacks live through the media – can escape the feeling of tension that these terrorist attacks have triggered. The incredible aggressiveness and incredible destructiveness have hit not only America, but all civilization to the market. The grief of the public as a whole is, therefore, true to the thousands of innocent civilians who have lost their lives in these suicide attacks. To believe that this huge terrorist act of violence against people or things would bring any constructive change in policy – if at all – is an error. Nevertheless, terrorism, I believe, has hit the United States, which has not had to endure any war and destructive acts to this extent on its territory since the secession war. Neither the First nor the Second World War nor the other wars involving America, from Vietnam to the Middle East, have tangled the American territory. In this respect, not only a district of the city has been laid in Schütt and Ash, but also symbolically lost faith in invulnerability and its own territorial integrity. A sense of extradition, a certain helplessness, and the desperate search for a tangible, tangible debtor seem to move America at present. In this regard, in view of the many positive achievements already mentioned here in this House – from the liberation from the Hitler regime in World War II to Marshall Plan and so on – America deserves all our solidarity. Do what? – I believe that the speech about the struggle of cultures – the representative Kurzmann has already mentioned this today – as it has presented Huntington, who sees a threat of war in the otherwise of cultures, in a sense is culturally racist. If one really takes his theses seriously and makes it the rule of political action, a massive reedology of foreign policy would be the result – even if under the cover of the Islam file of intolerance, fanaticism, violence and terror are committed. The first is the failure of any economic development, the second is an authoritarian, repressive and dictatorial state apparatus, and the third is the existence of foreign powers interested in the resources of the region, especially in oil. The West and Afghanistan in the 1980s, especially the Soviet Union, are partly responsible for many disastrous economic and social developments. The perpetrators, who have calculated the thousandfold murder and destroyed indiscriminate and brutal lives, have not achieved anything in spite of their cruel violence and their obscene programs. Nevertheless, the terrorist attacks, I believe, have a story: They cannot be understood without historical and political developments in the Middle East and the Middle East. The US's extensive military operations in the Middle East in the last twenty years – Lebanon, Libya, Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan – have probably prepared the ground for hatred and for the willingness to be violent in parts of the Arab world. In particular, Afghanistan became the main battlefield of the Cold War of the 1980s. Both superpowers and their allies have pumped huge amounts of weapons and money into the country, which has raised the war to a much more bloody level. That is why, I believe, an opinion deserves attention, namely that of the specialist representatives of the Islamic and Oriental sciences of universities and other German scientific institutions. They have noted in an opinion on the current events that, after their assessment of these terrorist crimes, they are not acts against the background of a religious or cultural conflict, but rather that the conflict is about the distribution of positions of power in the Middle East, with Islamic religious elements and religious terms being welcomed by the terrorists as a support of their own ideological position. The hostile image of radical Muslims is less the western civilization in itself than the US as superpower, whose influence on the political conditions in this region is felt to be overwhelming and unbearable. Only political changes could create the prerequisite for the withdrawal from the soil of terrorism. It is therefore to be criticised that the internal political debate of the last days has been used by the Minister of Defence Herbert Scheibnerda, that the concept of neutrality has now been completely decoupled from the real and international conditions and that, in any case, due to the tragic events in the USA, there must be a rethinking, or that the ÖVP Parliamentary Ursula Stenzel says that the Neutrality Act is a completely obsolete law, or that even the green Member Johannes Voggenhuber speaks in his despair of "Appease policy" and says that it would not be "Appeasement policy" anyway. Any discussion about the task of neutrality or the accession of Austria to NATO is completely unnecessary, as Klubobmann Khol – in my view – has rightly stated. This is not a war within the meaning of international law, but measures within the meaning of the UN Statute. In the present situation, therefore, there is a need for attention and caution and not retribution if the spiral of terror and violence is not to continue. This command the mourning and respect for the dead and their suffering relatives. That is why, I believe, the position taken by Austria on the basis of a UN mandate is the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12496	The next speaker is Mrs Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12517	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Federal Minister! Many speakers have already mentioned this: ==References====External links== In September 2001, the terrorist attack in New York, an unimaginable acid. The third millennium starts with a nightmare for us. In view of these events, the vulnerability of our modern industrial society becomes clear. Suddenly, it is clear to all – and this is also very common – that everything is possible. One is thinking of attacks on nuclear power plants, the use of biological or chemical weapons or nuclear weapons. That is to say, the suicide attacks are putting us in great trouble all over the world. The impact of this attack on international economic growth, on our exchanges, on the balance of the international economy has not yet been mentioned. Of course, in this situation our compassion applies to the many victims and their families and the American people. I also support the fact that terror must be fought decisively, but I am firmly convinced that this terrorist attack, regardless of its horrendous scale, was a political crime and not an act of war, but a criminal act. I very much hope that the sensible forces of the United States, Europe, Russia, and the whole world will prevail – this has already been addressed several times today – and that, if action is to be taken in Afghanistan, these very targeted, very sensible ones will be carried out. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In fact, there is a legitimate fear of an uncontrollable war. We have known for years that the Taliban regime in Afghanistan is cruel and humane. We have already supported a request against this regime in this House. However, I also remember that there has been no solidarity with Afghan refugees in the last few months. We should also say that in this situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The command of the hour is: We must avoid terrorism. This soil – Mr Posch mentioned it – is above all the political and economic situation in the Middle East. I am very glad that measures have also been taken by the Federal Government in this regard, that the foreign minister is on his way to talks in the Middle East. All political means must be used to re-establish the Middle East peace process. The Middle East conflict was resolved within the meaning of the 1991 Madrid Conference. It is also remarkable that in the time of the Oslo peace process of terrorism there was almost no existence. A second point – and this has not been raised today – is: In my opinion, Iraq must also be reintroduced into the international community. Of course, this must be linked to controls on weapons of mass destruction, but there must be a way to get Iraq back into the conversation, a way to normalising the situation. Thirdly – and this must also be understood by the world –: During this terrorist attack, a delegation from Parliament stopped in Burkina Faso. This is one of the poorest countries in the world. In view of this imbalance, this uneven development in the world, we must simply see and also look at the fact that only a just world economic order can create peace and democracy for the long term. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In this context, I would also like to appeal to the Austrian Parliament: What we are doing in the field of development cooperation does not correspond to our economic strength, does not correspond to our possibilities. Perhaps this is also the time for us to stand together and that all the parties represented here in the House will also express their support to the fact that we are making more financial resources available in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12589	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cap, Mr Ing. Westenthaler, Dr. Khol and comrades on solidarity against terrorism. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign of approval. – I notice: That's the majority. This amendment was accepted. (E 98.) . We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Comrades on solidarity against terrorist acts. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of the non-representatives of the Greens) What will Voggenhuber say?]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign of approval. – This is the minority. This amendment is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen and his comrades on solidarity against terrorism and its funding. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign of approval. – This is the minority. This amendment is therefore rejected. 2. Text of resolution adopted by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 8, 10 to 19 and 25 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 4, 10 to 17 and 20 (684 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12654	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. We are immediately entering the debate. Mrs Haidlmayr is the first speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12682	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are also discussing today the collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. Like everyone else, it is about the concerns of the citizens in Austria. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] It has been shown very clearly in the last two years that the interests of citizens are increasing, that there are more petitions and citizens' initiatives, but that there are others. It is less and less willing to take care of these interests of the citizens of our country. I would just like to take out a few important petitions and citizens' initiatives: There are, for example, petitions for the abolition of ambulance charges and for the abolition of accident pension taxation. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that the ambulance charges still exist, that the population will receive the first certificates of payment in the coming weeks, and we also know that the accident pension tax has not been abolished or is still upright. On the other hand, it was not possible in the Committee on Citizens' Initiatives and Petitions to deal with this issue and to carry out these petitions in the interest of the applicants, for the petitions were only taken into account by the ÖVP and the FPÖ in the light of the fact that they said: I would like to say a few words about this. We don't want anything more to do with this! That's all clear! Ladies and gentlemen! Nothing's clear. The interests of the citizens are no longer represented by these government parties, not even in the Committee on Petitions! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the same way, the petition No. 14. We drove to Mittersill before the summer – for some it was a rather further route – and looked at a project at the middle school, which involved a so-called distorted zebra strip. All the representatives of this Parliament who are responsible for this, namely the chairmen of the Committee on Petitions, have pledged there that they will treat and drive forward the interests and project of the students there. What about the petition No. 14 happen? – It was not even possible for the Committee on Petitions to make a recommendation to treat this petition positively in the Committee on Transport, because FPÖ and ÖVP have probably already adopted their commitments in Mittersill on the way back. I think it is equally bad that the Citizens' Initiative No. 20 in which discrimination against lesbian and homosexual people has not even been dealt with in the Committee. [[Abg. Murauer: Were you in the committee?]] The Committee has only agreed – as FPÖ and ÖVP have the majority – that this issue is assigned to the Justice Committee. This is not an area that concerns exclusively the Ministry of Justice, but we would have expected that – and this is usually common for citizens' initiatives and petitions – at least opinions will be received from those ministries where there are points of contact on this issue. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that the citizens' initiative "A lot of right for equal love" concerns the Social Ministry on the one hand, when it comes to co-insurance, when it comes to the issue of care-free provision, and that it concerns the Ministry of the Interior when it comes to the issue of equal rights for equal sex relations. Of course, the issue of this citizens' initiative also concerns the Ministry of Justice – that is not a question – but the government parties were not prepared to get opinions from the ministries concerned. You just said: Hands away from this topic! In the judicial committee with that! Whether it's on the agenda or not, that's absolutely not our problem! We don't want that at all! – Time and again, the government parties ask themselves to think – at least seven years I already know – because they still want to inform themselves, but nothing will happen. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Although the collective report reflects what was visual and content, I still cannot agree with it, because the collective report, which is also an expression of how the interests of the citizens of Austria are represented, shows that these interests are no longer represented on a wide range. All those who agree to this report take the view externally that everything in the Committee is in order to represent the interests of citizens in the Committee, to try to pass on the interests to the respective ministries, to try to take people's interests seriously and to respond to people's demands. But that's not the case. People's interests are no longer represented in the Committee, as they successfully prevent ÖVP and FPÖ. Because the result of the Committee on Petitions is not in the interest of bringing in citizens' initiatives and petitions, this report cannot be accepted either.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12739	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12761	Mr President. High house! This report contains many important concerns, such as the reduction of the number of students and the withdrawal of savings measures in the field of education. These are very important concerns, ladies and gentlemen, when the future of our children is important to us. The demand for a legal anchorage of free radio was also made in the form of a citizens' initiative. This too is an important policy concern for democracy, an important demand for democracy. I would like to refer specifically to a petition and a citizens' initiative, namely the petition of the Federal Supreme Realgymnasium in Mittersill concerning the project of the so-called distorted zebra strips and, on the other hand, to the citizens' initiative called "A lot of right for equal love". In the petition "distorted zebra strips", the class 7b of the BORG Mittersill presented a project with a lot of work and with the help of her very dedicated professor, and Mr Emmerich Schwemlein introduced this petition to Parliament. It has become a really interesting project. The special thing is that we did not wait for the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives until the pupils and their teachers came to us, but we said: As a committee, let us take ourselves so seriously and our self-understanding is going to go and look at what these students thought about in this project. That's what we've realized. It is a very exciting and interesting project that was presented to us there. We were – I think I can say that on behalf of my colleagues – really enthusiastic about this idea and its presentation. Personally, I also enjoyed the fact that young people at the age of 17, 18 are thinking about how they can improve something in this state. That's living democracy, that's commitment to the public. Thank you very much to these students and to the woman professor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But what I was sorry about in dealing with this petition is that we have not managed to make a joint recommendation to the Transport Committee. This has not succeeded, although in Mittersill – at least I understood – there has been a unanimous opinion about it. I now hope that Mr Schwemmlein, a member of the Transport Committee, and also the support – I assume – of the government parties, will ensure that this petition is examined and treated accordingly in the Transport Committee and that, after this comprehensive examination, what is already in force in other EU countries will come into effect. The ultimate effect is to increase road safety for the most vulnerable road users, and these are pedestrians, which are the children. That's why we did it. I hope that the Transport Committee accepts this matter accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The citizens' initiative, which I specifically turn to, is the citizens' initiative "A lot of right for equal love". Here I would like to focus specifically on the issue of human rights. Human rights are indivisible. Human rights must apply to all, regardless of whether someone is heterosexual, whether someone is homosexual, whether he is gay or whether he is gay. Let's talk about it at last! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, we have a legal situation which does not at all correspond to a modern state. It is a fact, Mr. Schwarzenberger and Mr. Puttinger, that there has always been love of the same sex since human thought. People have simply and simply always loved the same sex. That this is at least as valuable as heterosexual love, we should finally take note. At least 10 percent are, according to estimates, homosexual, and if we exclude 10 percent of people from essential rights, that's a big problem. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a question of black, blue, red or otherwise of a color, but it is a question of human rights and really not a question of party politics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Very well! Very well, this is a matter of mind!]] What does this citizens' initiative call for? – This citizens’ initiative calls for access to all rights and obligations of marriage for couples of equal sex, and for equality between different and equal sexes without marriage, while at the same time ensuring the rapid legal development of marriage and communities of life, in accordance with the principles of personal self-determination, partnership and equal treatment. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is the demands that should have been fulfilled for a long time in a modern and open state that does not prejudice its citizens. I do not understand why you, especially you, from the People's Party, which you call social and Christian, are always an important guiding principle for charity, so that something is changed to treat these groups so differently. No one understands that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Where is there equality with marriage? In which country? There's no such thing all over the world! There is no such thing in any country!]] Austria is increasingly out of the European balance sheet by rejecting these demands. The FPÖ/ÖVP mandates operate far away from Europe. Unfortunately, I have to say that. They did not want to discuss it in committee. I am glad that this citizens' initiative has now been allocated at least to the Justice Committee. I hope that the Justice Committee will now act. He could have done it for a long time, there are already some applications there. Mrs Fekter did not take action in this regard. I would like to see these opinions - as Mrs Haidlmayr has already mentioned - still being received. What are you afraid of? Has You're afraid of the opinions of your own members of the government? Why don't you make any comments? I also believe that these people deserved that there is a public hearing in which precisely these questions are addressed. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me finish by once again You appeal: If you don't believe us, if you don't believe me, if you don't believe in science, but on your own party colleagues, for example, to the head of state, Klasnic, on Mr. Landesrat Hirschmann. Maybe you'll ask some colleagues who were here in the room: Mr Dr. Ofner, Member of Parliament and current Secretary of State Morak, Mr Amon. I'd think of some more. Ms. Vice-Chancellor, member of the LAMBDA Legal Committee, advocated equal treatment for heterosexuals and homosexuals in society. All of this might move something, would bring movement into the whole discussion. We should ensure that Austria goes back to legal ground – that is what I mean now in relation to EU law. I would like – Mrs Gatterer is the next speaker – that a little bit of the recommendation of the Council of Europe last year, which was adopted by a large majority, would be involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12853	Next speaker is Mrs Gatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12875	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. The Committee on Citizens' Initiatives and Petitions, I believe, is a very important committee, although there are very different concerns about it. In addition to popular desire, referendums and popular surveys, it is an important instrument of direct democracy. It is a direct link between the citizen and Parliament, and I therefore believe that this is a very good establishment. I would like to talk about some petitions and citizens' initiatives, and above all about the citizens' initiative No. 4 to improve diabetic care. I would like to thank all the colleagues who have adopted the initiative of both the Petitions Committee and the Diabetes Forum Austria, an interest group of independent self-help groups, and the Diabetes Association, which has presented itself here in the House. There were a lot of colleagues there who could measure the values. I believe that early detection is very important in this area – which was also very credible – because at least 10 percent of Austrians are at risk of diabetes, so you can talk about a real folk disease. That's why this presentation was very important. Around one third of the Members have come in, have been consulted and have the values measured. Unfortunately, two Members who have not known so far have learned that they are at risk. I think that shows very well how important it is to do much more in the precautionary field. The government also supports this citizens' initiative. Most of the claims contained in them have already been implemented. I would also like to quote Prime Minister, who said that it is especially important that the offer that young people should already be available from the 19th century onwards. Year of life can be used free of charge for the precautionary examination, as the precautionary examination is the most important information and prevention to be able to take timely action. I come to a second very large area, namely petitions and citizens' initiatives in the field of education. I would like to say that this has a negative side-effect. The Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives should really be a means of addressing Parliament with its concerns. But if you look at the variety of petitions and citizens' initiatives in this area, then you naturally come to the view that they have been greatly influenced by a party and that you may sometimes be panicking here. I would like to refer to the many discussions on education and education which we have already held in this House and in which the SPÖ and the Greens have repeatedly come up with the same arguments. However, I would also like to point out in this discussion that with 110 billion schilling – that is 8 billion € – we have the highest educational budget for education, science, culture and research that ever existed. I believe that this must be underlined – and I want to do so – in this context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order not to accuse me of partiality and to say that it is quite clear that, as a spokesman for the government party, I want to delete only this positive budget – precisely in order not to get into this suspicion – I would like to quote from the OECD study "Education in focus 2001". This study attests Austria to an excellent value compared to all other countries. As an example, only a number: People's students are being funded by 50 percent more than the OECD average. The OECD countries spend an average of 3 800 dollars per adult student, with us there are 6 528 dollars. I believe that one must take note that it is not true that there is a step backwards in the field of education. I would also like to refer to the petition No. 10 on the reduction of the maximum number of students. It says that saving in education is a saving away from the future of our country. However, the figure mentioned shows that this is simply not true. We do not want to save on the future of our country. On the contrary: In this area a lot is happening. I can also tell you that we are on average very good. If you say now, we have too many students per class: I must point out that we have been in the government for a very long time and that in this time of government the maximum number of students has not changed. There are 41,500 classes of school, but thank God there are only 7 800 classes of school more than 25 students in the class. I think that's a number you can live with. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would, however, like to give another example. They have not managed in their time of government to reduce the maximum number of schoolchildren, although, as I know, there have already been many initiatives on this subject. [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] If you were to lower this high-class school in Austria, it would cost 50 billion schilling now, I suppose. As a long-term goal, it is not too expensive for us to do even more for students, but with this budget, I don't think you can assume that this government is saving it in the field of education. I would like to end with a positive example, namely the joint visit of the chairmen of the political groups in Mittersill. Very dedicated students have introduced a road safety project, i.e. visually distorted zebra strips. My colleagues have already pointed out that the pupils have put forth a lot of effort. In the case of pouring rain, they have repeatedly applied the so-called distorted zebra strips. You have really worked out a very good project. It has been assigned to the Transport Committee, but it must also be accepted that the transport experts now have the say and must also examine this highly committed model.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12924	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12946	Mr President. High house! A collective report, as it is now before us, is always the reason to look back on petitions and citizens' initiatives. The Committee on Petitions is characterized by very different materials. Much is discussed after the Committee's opinions have been received, but many other specialist committees have been appointed to consult, as Mr Gatterer mentioned earlier. I should like to mention some of the concerns raised in this report, which have had a special significance for me. We have already dealt with this matter in the committee in January of this year. There was a very important among them, which I would like to mention, namely the petition "Human rights also for Sudetendeutsche!" Ladies and gentlemen! We all know the history of genocide, which is closely linked to the infamous Beneš decrees. In the Czech Republic, the Beneš decrees are still part of the constitutional and legal reality today, and these racist law laws are constantly being passed in Prague, as well as in other Czech cities. They all know that the Slovenian counterpart to these notorious Beneš decrees is the Avnoj laws, which are also applicable in the legal reality of our southern neighboring country Slovenia. Recently, Czech President Václav Havel has stopped in Austria and has again condemned this Beneš decree – and it is his merit that he was the first Czech politician to condemn these Beneš decrees – morally, but at the same time he has made it clear that he sees no political possibility for the withdrawal of these decrees because they were constitutional, as he said, for the emergence of the ČSR. We also know that months ago there was a meeting of Czech and Slovak politicians, namely, after the comments of Slovak President Schuster on the persecution of the Carpathian Germans, and these Czech and Slovak politicians agreed not to change the constitutional reality of the Czech Republic and Slovakia. As an excuse, they meant that the expulsion of the Sudeten Germans was justified by the so-called Potsdam decisions. Ladies and gentlemen! Crimes against humanity, as the crimes of abortion were undoubtedly, never delay. In our opinion, States that do not abolish racist laws have lost nothing in a civilised European Union. This should be seen by the Czech government once. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The displaced people, who have contributed so much to the construction of Austria, who have done so essential, have also a right to be very strongly represented by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13003	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13024	Mr President. High house! There is a stand-by set, which is always used by the members of the Austrian Federal Government and which I think is also very stressed, and this is: No matter what has happened or what is going to happen, we are holding fast to the zero deficit, because we want to secure the future of our children! [[Abg. Murauer: You say: No matter what happens: We make debts!]] The addition is that part of the statement I would like to pay particular attention to, ladies and gentlemen, for I can prove the opposite to you. I wonder, Who can use it if it even harms those affected by it? Now after school, the fears of Zig thousands of parents, ten thousand teachers, parents, pupils, apprentices and students confirm themselves. You, ladies and gentlemen, also have the numbers on the table. These fears are expressed and justified in a number of petitions and citizens' initiatives on your education policy, on the education policy of Blue Black. There are eight petitions and citizens' initiatives in this report alone. It has also become certain that: It is likely that a third of the students will begin their studies in this year than in the previous year, thousands of young people – exactly 10 500 – will be on the street without teaching, and we can also assume that about 7,000 students are not accommodated in their desired school, but have been dismissed from it. [[Calls and calls between ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The fact is also, ladies and gentlemen, that, contrary to the announced foreign language offensive – and this is actually quite a pity, because we are in the European Year of Languages – English in public schools, a language that is being taught playfully at this age, had to be deleted in many schools and the children of these have nothing now. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, from the Government parties: How do you interpret the UN Convention on Children's Rights when an article under the title "Law to Education and Education" states that the Austrian schoolchildren – and this number is really not to be rejected – are missing about 75 000 lessons in the school year? These hours you have sacrificed the zero deficit that serves exclusively for children and young people and their future? This is something that is not particularly credible. It is particularly exciting to read carefully the opinions on petitions and citizens' initiatives. First of all, the educational significance is repeatedly emphasized – yes, paper is patient, I think so – and second, when you read it carefully, you get the feeling that in the financial field between the federal government and the countries just moving back and forth, from time to time. The countries are saying: We cannot do anything about it, the Minister of Finance must approve the plans of teachers!, and the Federation says: Well, how the countries use these planning sites then, split up, that's not my problem! – Hen or egg?, I think so. The fact is that those whose future you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, want to secure, now, in the present, to suffer. On the other hand, we Social Democrats say: The earlier learned with lust, joy and motivation and good care, the more a society benefits from its human capital.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13068	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13089	Mrs. Colleague! Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Landeshauptmann's deputy from Upper Austria! A special greeting to you, which you listen to today's discussion. [[towards gallery]] High house! Again and again petitions are being brought to bear on the noise protection measures to be set up along roads, motorways or railway lines. One petition was met, the other one was not, because the affected noise was not as big as it was described. The petition as such now leads me to the topic of "Lam protection measures in Austria". I believe that in the construction of noise protection measures in recent years the target has been exceeded. It's called "Austria on the beautiful blue Danube", but this Danube is no longer seen, because the noise protection walls cover the area partly over long distances – colleague Schwemmlein gives me the right – and if you drive certain routes, you find: [[Abg. Son of a bitch: No, I'm not giving you the right!]] This is certainly no longer useful to tourism. You can't see Austria's beautiful landscape anymore, you have only one installation on the left and on the right. I think more thought should be given to noise protection measures in the future, especially as the costs of doing so often account for up to a third of the total cost of the road – I am thinking of the Perg road. It is also not acceptable that plots located directly next to the motorway or directly next to the railway line are purchased at a reasonable price and then a noise protection wall is required. In part, the noise protection walls are higher than the single-family houses. You can see this if you go behind the noise protection walls or if you take a look behind these walls. I believe that something should be slowed down in the construction of noise protection walls, and I also believe that it is time to use the funds that could be saved by this to build safe tunnels or for those safety measures for our children or pedestrians who are required in a petition, namely for the installation of visually distorted zebra strips. For example, the saved money could be used. On the occasion of this petition, I would therefore like to ask for the regulation to be reconsidered and reworded.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13128	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13148	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address two citizens' initiatives and two petitions in this collective report. The two petitions concern the sickness allowance and the accident pension tax. These petitions have been brought in by the SPÖ-pensionist association, so they are party-politically motivated. I would like to say to the accident pension tax that we have carried out a compensation in a truly excellent way and can now really live well with it. Those who have staged this point to the fact that the savings measures taken by the Federal Government in 1996/97 were far more severe and did not cause any party-politically motivated petition at that time. I also remember the introduction of the health certificate fee, which was far from being a control measure, but was to be paid as a kind of entrance fee to the established doctor and is still, however, able to achieve the performance much more economically than a hospital clinic. We have taken the reverse path. We have introduced a moderate ambulance fee, and we also guarantee that the health security tax introduced by you, my dear ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, will be removed with the introduction of the chip card. The ambulance fee is a social and health service that makes sense: We direct the patient stream to where the performance can be achieved more economically without suffering the quality of the care. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A very supportive citizens' initiative is the citizens' initiative introduced by Mrs Helga Grillmayr concerning diabetic care. I can assure you that although diabetes supply has always been worthy of improvement, the measures required by this citizens' initiative have already become largely reality. I am pleased that we are also involved in informing the population about the concerns of diabetics and that we have already made great progress in training. We will continue to talk with the initiators so that we can work out further improvements in good diabetic care and effective precautions. In this sense, we should also stick to it and not believe that this citizens' initiative introduced by private individuals should be discussed today and that it should then be forgotten. On the contrary: The care of the diabetics and also the early recognition of diabetes must be our concern, and we will continue to do so in the future. The citizens' initiative, which I would like to address most recently, is the one initiated by the Liberal Forum. You want your own professional image for natural healing therapists. With all the appreciation of natural healing treatments, which I very much welcome, they must remain in the hands of the expert. It is not a matter of learning natural medicine in a weekend seminar and then being let go of humanity. We assume and also work to ensure that the more and more desirable natural healing options can be used, but remain in the hands of the expert. This is also reflected in the answer to the question to the Minister for Social Affairs: Natural healing measures must remain in the hands of the expert, the doctor or the doctor. This is the health policy that the former Federal Minister Krammer of the SPÖ also represented. It is not important to have a professional profile for natural healing procedures. It is equally important that the initiators, the Liberal Forum, are in Parliament. They don't leave us, and we don't have our own professional image of natural healing procedures.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13184	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13205	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have already said to this speaker that petitions are an important and effective instrument of direct democracy in our country. All the more so, I am glad that the petition I have brought on on the subject of "protection of schoolchildren" has been effective. In contrast to the original plans of Mr Strasser, the number of civil servants in the area of St. Pölten has not been reduced. However, another aspect of the internal security in the area of St. Pölten is still threatened by plans by the Minister of the Interior, through the irrational absence of many guards throughout the federal territory. In particular, I would like to address the St. Georgen Guard Room in the south of St. Pölten, for which I have also received a petition, and this petition, ladies and gentlemen, was supported with many hundred signatures. This measure affects a whole district with thousands of inhabitants. The opinion of the Ministry of the Interior on this petition ridicules every description. It is an array of conflicting words. You can read this at any time, ladies and gentlemen! As the Minister of the Interior wants to achieve greater security for the population with a reduced number of officials, I and many others are a mystery. When I think of the latest developments in international terrorism and see the verbal superiority with which the Minister of the Interior manages internal security with the aim of reducing plans, I am really afraid and afraid. Ladies and gentlemen! Something else stimulates the displeasure of the population in the Lower Austrian Central Area, the really unbearable traffic noise. One of the most affected people in our country is the trailers of the West Railway and the West motorway, i.e. those roads that have a very high traffic frequency. The locals of the main station St. Pölten and the inhabitants of the settlements in the south of St. Pölten have for a long time been moaning under unbearable noise. In tough negotiations for appropriate noise protection in the freight transport in the south of St. Pölten, it was possible at the time to achieve a joint plan for protection against noise by rail and motorway in order to protect the inhabitants of the southern districts of St. Pölten from noise pollution. However, this optimal variant of transport planning has sunk the infrastructure ministers Schmid and Forstinger in the floods of the now unreachable zero deficit. At least the petitions and efforts of the capital of St. Pölten have yielded, and noise protection measures are also carried out in the course of the three-track extension of the West motorway in the area addressed. However, since the construction and completion of the freight transport system will probably last for many years, the inhabitants of the city centre of St. Pölten will be burdened with noise for more than 200 a day by the actions of Minister Schmid and his successor Forstinger. The implementation of the noise protection measures that are urgently needed for the St. Pölten Central Station is also currently in the air, as the Minister has removed the funding. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The trailers of the main station of St. Pölten – and these are also thousands – are exposed to heavy noise noise caused by the railway operation of the ÖBB on the Westbahnbahn line day and night. The permissible level of noise emission is far exceeded, and there is evidence of this. Ladies and gentlemen of Blue Black! The majority of the Austrian population has already realized that this government can be saved. You're saving Austria's infrastructure broken!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13268	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda, so that the required examination of a urgent request may take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Karl Oellinger, Dr Eva Glawischnigund Comrades on the position of the Federal Government on the requirements of the ÖGB original vote (502/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13301	We therefore reach the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 502/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13383	I give the floor to Mr Oellinger as an applicant for the reasons of his urgent request. I remember that the speaking time is limited by 20 minutes. Please, Mr Ollinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13408	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to continue the debate on the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, the original vote of the ÖGB, in order to democratize the ÖGB, where it has ended pretty much in the USA because of tragic terror. The abolition of trade unions, which would be equivalent to a de facto ban on the trade union, was not only an absolute low point of political debate, but is also a position that all democrats in that country can only condemn. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view of democracy and a developed parliamentarism, it is not possible to reflect on the abolition of trade unions. I did not think it possible that we would ever go back to this level in Austria – and that was largely contradicted by official government representatives – that there was something like this public to think about. Ladies and gentlemen! Not only was this a low point, but we have experienced a rather inconceivable debate; inevitably because in this debate about the union and the original vote only the incomes of top-ranking officials were talked about, in fact, because the trade union tried to escape this debate to a large extent, and as if there were no crisis at all. Of course, Mr Vergestnitsch, there is a crisis of the union. There is a crisis of the union alone because the times in which the trade unions in Austria used their old policy of cooperation with the economy are over, because the trade unions still think that this form of politics, in which few top representatives on both sides make up what they then acquire from their member organizations, could be the perspective for the future. That is probably why, Mr Vergestnitsch, no proposals for the democratisation of the trade union have yet been made from the ÖGB. That is why it is a crisis. In this debate about the trade unions, in which the question of income was rightly asked not only by the post-union president but also by his alternate, in which it was legitimately asked: Why at that time? What does this look like with multiple functions? What can a person accomplish?, in which it was legitimately also discussed, why the members know nothing about the fact that the union chief officials in the post-union union have approved this – obviously not even the officials themselves – so in this debate there were questions that were very elementary. And then it's not enough to say: The resignation of this one top representative of the post-union trade union solves all these questions. Within the Christian Trade Unions, there is now still a debate within the Christian Trade Unions, which sometimes becomes public, in order to withdraw the vice-chairman of the postal union. I think it would have been time not only to raise the question of the resignation of the entire body at the postal union, but to ask the question in principle: How can a leading trade union be selected at all? We have asked ourselves this question. The post-union statute does not provide for the election of the chairman. There is no regulation in a very important and, as I do my, indispensable institution like the trade union, which clearly does not consider and regulate the fact that a leading trade union can also be called upon to resign. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Vergestnich and Mr. Nürnberger. This is not an evil thing from us, but it needs to be considered quickly. On this occasion, I can inform you of the following: A trade union member who has been a member of a single union for 30 years – I will not mention them here as much as the name of the trade union official who has replied – has noticed on the occasion of this debate: He's been at a union for 30 years, but he's never been to a member's meeting. Is there actually a meeting of members at all? He also notices: He is now a pensioner, and it has been founded a pensioner section whose representatives, he writes, but were already determined in advance – he would have liked to have been there. He is a touching, active colleague, in this case one who is close to the Greens. He writes a letter to the union, and she then writes him back: I will forward these questions which you have asked to the individual unions. I can now transmit to you the statutes of the ÖGB. This person makes the effort and looks at the statutes of the ÖGB exactly to find out what they say about it. He notices the sentence: The delegates of the individual trade unions are elected by the Executive Board. He thinks of it: To me, this sounds very much like democratic centralism, which I have assumed is already a thing of the past. His question is: How is the Executive Board of the individual trade unions elected? A provision laying down the right to vote of the members of the trade union shall be noted to him for this purpose, § 17. To this end, he raises the question: When and where did the last meeting of members take place? After considering further statutes, which I do not now discuss in detail, he comes up with the question: What direct elections take place in the individual trade union or in the ÖGB at all? And then there is the union official's answer: In principle, I agree that for an association of the size of the ÖGB, it is probably indisputably organisational as well as financially difficult to allow the members to participate in all activities in the form of an immediate democratic participation. I do not think that is acceptable, Mr Vergestnitsch. Of course, it is difficult – organisationally difficult like this original vote – but the financial argument that democracy cannot take place until the member, that elections cannot take place, it may not have been. We expect clear answers in this context, not only because the Greens have written an open letter to the ÖGB, in which we request a dialogue, but because it is essential to ensure that trade union members not only participate in the themes of the original vote, but that they can also identify with their organisation. That's what we need! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It goes on: The Trade Union Secretary also acknowledges that in parts of the ÖGB, he says that the sizes of participation should be expanded by the members. He doesn't dispute that. In the case of specific questions, it allows itself to refer to the individual trade union. No answer has been received from the single union so far. But the point is: Someone makes the effort to look at the organizational status of the individual trade union, the ÖGB, and asks: Where am I? Where do I come from, where do I have something to say?, and the only answer there is: Currently is one – one! - Original vote. And now I say, we Greens say: We believe that this instrument of original voting is very important, but it cannot and must not have been the first and the last step of the union's participation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] After I have announced that I do not want to continue the debate where it has ceased, because I do not represent it and because I hope that no one here in the house is willing to think of the demand for the abolition of trade unions, and because I believe that this country, like every country, needs strong trade unions, because there are large groups of people who need the trade unions, I am convinced that the trade unions also have to do something to get to this strength, and that they need to be credible – I emphasize: credible! – have to legitimise against its members. And this is only about elections that take place in a somewhat acceptable mode, in which members have something to say. Ladies and gentlemen! There has now been criticism of this original vote, criticism by the FPÖ representatives, who have been concerned about whether there is a correct counting of whether enough people are participating. – Mr Klubobmann Khol! I would have liked to see a little of this energy, which the liberals used for their criticism, their concern for the counting mode, for the original vote as a whole, would also have been incorporated into the so-called public council election in the ORF. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When we discuss the legitimacy of an original vote, from when it takes place: from 400 000, 500 000, 600 000, 700 000 members or only when 1 million have voted, and some of the government parties say: 1 million, that's us anyway! if we can discuss it – and not very serious – then, Dr. Khol, we also need to discuss the not small Fauxpas and, in fact, the increase of the ORF audience by this public council survey. This was not a very serious abuse in a truly important democratic matter. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There was no anonymity that you requested at the ÖGB original vote, and there was no possibility for anyone who saw and heard the ORF to decide on it, but only the payer was allowed to vote, but not the payer's family members. That means: Young people are excluded from this type of survey. But now I do not want to talk about the ORF, but about the ÖGB original vote. I do not want to hide that in addition to the absolutely evil tones towards ÖGB, we have also recorded intermediate tones from individual government members. The opinions of Mr Bundeskanzler have partly – partly! – well-regarded by materiality. I would also like to distinguish between an opinion by Mrs Riess-Passer, who said: The determination of the incomes of union officials is the matter of the union!, and the clear distinction of their party friend and clubman Westenthaler, who said: We will start a popular desire to see how high the income of union officials can be! These are not unimportant nuances. This is not unimportant, because you have to decide, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, not only on the issue of the abolition of the ÖGB, whether you want to continue discussing at this level, but also whether you can really represent it and want the state or Parliament to make a direct intervention into the freedom of organisation of a trade union, an important association in this society. Mr Krüger, I suppose, I know what I am saying: it would be a very massive state intervention if we told trade unions how to regulate their relations, their associations, their relations with the other social partners and the incomes of union officials. But, of course, I would like to address the ÖGB once again, that the members of the ÖGB know what income the union officials have, and I also wish that the ÖGB members are not being tempted to argue that these incomes are as low as possible. Officials should be paid quite well if they do good work. That's something I think we could understand. And in this context, we have also made a request in which we wanted to keep clear and clean, what the state is, what the tasks of the state are, what the tasks of a private association are and what our proposals are in the direction of how a private association of the size of the ÖGB – which is not comparable to a Hasenzochter-Verein – should develop. Ladies and gentlemen! For the original vote itself: "Mutless questions", it was called by the FPÖ Klubobmanns Westenthaler. "No-na-fragments" – again Westenthaler. "No-na-fragments" – Riess-Passer. "No-na-fragments" – Fassleven. These are "naturalities", Mr. Haider said. Mrs Rauch-Kallat said: These are general questions, which are probably hardly likely to be addressed by an employee. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, if this is the case, then you can agree with the question that you can represent, Mr Tancsits, then you will agree. You should be given this opportunity, because we do not care how the representatives of the government parties – and there are on both sides of the liberals who call themselves workers' representatives, as well as in the ranks of the EIAs which are referred to as employee representatives...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13564	I just wanted to preserve equal opportunities for all speakers in relation to side-by-side talks. – Please continue, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13585	Thank you, Mr President. – So there are on both sides those who have already explained that they can start something with these questions – up to top officials such as Mrs Rauch-Kallat or Mr Haider and Mr Westenthal on the free side. On the other hand, however, there is a speech – and I do not find that unproblematic, Mr Khol, the Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein, who has remained in conflict. One has only tried to speak out in this regard that he has been misunderstood in the statement in which he referred the original vote to as an attack on the site of Austria. Mr Khol! We have had a special presidial to Mr Gartlehner's renunciation. I would have expected – we are still expecting this – that the statements of Mr Bartenstein's Minister of Economic Affairs, which were reported in a serious newspaper by a serious journalist, will not be corrected by the indication that somehow a misunderstanding was to occur, but will be clearly and decisively rejected – even if it is a statement by a member of the government of the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is not enough for us to be silent about such statements on the government bank. We do not need any special Presidential, but a clear rejection of such, actually primitive statements, which are unworthy of a government representative and a democrat in Austria – and as such I would call the Minister of Economic Affairs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! After we vote on a request containing all the questions of the original vote, I do not wish to miss the opportunity to give you the opportunity to vote on the question of settlement, because it is ready for decision. It was ÖAAB's function, Dirnberger, who said that it was no longer the task of the social partners, but that of the government. And it was the ÖVP- and Economics-functional Mitterlehner, who said that it was not for the economic partners that they could only make gross demands, that is the government's task. Ladies and gentlemen! The time-limits given by the Federal Chancellor have now expired. Mid-September is over. The time to vote on the resolution has also come in Parliament to vote on a motion for a resolution which I am submitting here: [[Quoted print version removed]] You should have the opportunity to address the questions of the original vote...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13647	Mr Oellinger! Firstly, speaking time has expired, secondly, motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure can only be tabled in the course of a debate. The urgent request will now be justified by you. The Secretary of State will speak before the start of the debate, and the debate will begin with the first speaker after the member of the government. I would therefore ask that your request be submitted by Mrs Glavischnig or by Mr Grünewald, because it can only be made in the course of the debate. I'm asking for understanding.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13664	You should only have the opportunity to decide on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13694	Unfortunately, the finding that the application has been properly filed cannot be made. I would ask him to bring him in at a later date, and then he will be voted on. On the subject of urgent request, the Secretary of State will be given the floor. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13722	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few points of principle before addressing the individual questions raised. Many of the reform projects launched by the Austrian Federal Government over the last one and a half years have been implemented with the assistance of the Austrian social partners. The measures that have been so necessary in recent years, for example in the area of pension systems or civil service rights, would not have been possible in this form without the constructive involvement of the social partners. To this end, we must thank the social partners on behalf of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, a world of work, understood in rapid change, requires that all institutions be prepared to reform, including for one's own reform. This also applies to the social partners, and it should be noted that this need for reform has been recognised by individual social partners and has been met in recent years. I'm allowed to sum up: We are committed to a strong, reformable social partnership, which is ready to deal with the challenges of the modern working world together with the Austrian Federal Government and to implement them together for the benefit of the workers of this country, but also for the benefit of the Austrian economy and its competitiveness in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now to the individual points. This Federal Government has repeatedly demonstrated that it always includes the Austrian social partners in the decision-making process and has a significant part to play in it. Thus, as examples of the reform project, the approximation of workers' and employees' rights – a long-term call for workers' representatives, which could now finally be implemented successfully after detailed social partners' negotiations – can be called the social partners' agreement within the framework of the workers' protection innovation. The Federal Government's sustainable effort to build on proposals from the social partners in connection with the issue of redundancies is also evidence of a commitment by the Federal Government to the social partners. This is why the social partners have been asked to negotiate on several occasions and to submit proposals for solutions to the government. Accordingly, the Federal Government has extended the deadline for drawing up proposals to allow the social partners the necessary negotiating period. One of the key concerns of our social policy must be the guarantee of social security for the future. In Austria, a social system based on the performance of its people is well functioning. Based on fundamental considerations, we have repeatedly expressed our support for maintaining the model of compulsory social security insurance. In all reflections on reforms in these areas, the priority is to ensure the safe provision of all citizens in the event of social need. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Other forms of insurance are likely to be difficult to ensure that the contribution payment is based on the level of income, but the benefits are equally open to all. Finally, legal health insurance gives certainty not to lose insurance protection even in the event of serious health risks. Especially in the field of health insurance, it must be prevented that there is a two-class medicine in which only the wealthy can afford adequate medical care. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It must be available to all, whether rich or poor, adequate and appropriate medical care. Changes both in the working world and in the demographic composition of the population also require us to examine other systems for their applicability. The Federal Government has therefore launched the review announced in the Government Convention, in which areas a transition, but above all an addition to compulsory insurance by an insurance obligation, is useful, by setting up an expert group. Currently, professionals will present a final report on their discussions in the near future. In no case, however, there must be a deterioration in relation to the previous system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is not intended to intervene in the competences of the collective contract negotiators. On the contrary. It is already the right of the social partners to negotiate wage increases and working time schemes on the basis of the law. The Government Agreement also provides for an extension in the sense that rules on flexible working time in those sectors for which there is no collective agreement should also be possible at the operational and individual agreements level. As mentioned above, the social partners are invited by the Federal Government to submit a proposal for the renewal of the existing treatment system. The task of the social partners is to ensure that it is a system that is a key to the economy, but at the same time to eliminate the injustices of the existing settlement system at last. In particular, it is not to be seen in the light of the government's goal of ensuring our standard of living in old age, which is why only a small part of the workforce should get a job. In particular, workers in seasonal occupations who are involuntarily affected by frequent job changes are not entitled to compensation. The existing step-by-step regulation leads to injustices and unwanted terminations by the service providers, who could now be given the incentive. At the same time, this will increase the mobility of employees. Finally, it should be noted that the demand for the Federal Government to guarantee a right to discharge from the first day even in the case of self-announcement needs some clarification. Do applicants even know what that means? Is it likely that this is a claim for discharge within the meaning of the existing system, because how should it be judged fair? Apart from this, the government programme assumes that contribution payments are to be made in a cash register after the end of a service year. It seems that the critics have been overlooked that a one-year period of waiting compared to the existing law, which provides for a right of termination only after a three-year term of service, is already taken for themselves and, given the average duration of employment, represents a significant improvement for workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Federal Government has already defined itself clearly and clearly on the subject of education offensive. With the 110 billion schilling planned for 2002 for education, this Federal Government will succeed in providing more education for 7 billion schilling within three years. Let me conclude by commenting on the last point of the urgent request: All the efforts of the Federal Government – the "Administrative Reform" keyword – are going in the direction of maintaining and improving public services in their quality and scope. The savings made so far, for example in the personnel sector, have not led to any reduction in the quality of service provided by state institutions. On the contrary. Negotiations between the Federal Government and the federal states, which are currently in progress, will lead to a closer-to-citizen role of public authorities. The same objective serves numerous reform measures in the Federal Government itself, which have already been implemented or are in preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13864	I would like to thank the Secretary of State. We are now entering the debate. I would draw attention to this: no speaker longer than 10 minutes, no political group more than 25 minutes. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Is that right?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13899	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by expressing my great disappointment at the fact that Mr Martin Bartenstein, Minister of Economic Affairs, did not think it worth appearing here in this debate today, and that until today he did not think it worth apologising in any appropriate form for the statement that I really can only call derailment. I am also very sorry, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you too, after Mr Oellinger has already done this very widely, have found no word of regret for this sentence, namely the sentence that the ÖGB's action is an attack on Austria's site. I would like to remind you once again of the terrain on which we are moving here. I looked up in the dudes: Attack: more treacherous, insidious plan, attack. I find it really remarkable that in the context of a vote, with an original vote with democratic means, one can speak of an attack. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It is absolutely unacceptable not to lose a single word here, Mr State Secretary. [[Abg. May. Kukacka:... the Green is an attack on the economic location Austria!]] . I would now take your place very, very back, Mr Commissioner, I would not talk now about attacks. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka]] Today morning, we have tried to treat the meaning of language and everything related to it, images and language, a little more sensitive. But they fall again into an incredibly brutal form of political abuses and accusations, which is no longer tolerable. Attack, attack – please be more careful with such comparisons when they are related to politics, voting and democracy. That's absurd. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr State Secretary! As I listened to you now, your reading gave me the impression that there is a very, very positive opinion of the ÖVP on the original vote and that this is actually something like a call to participate and to sign everything with a yes as far as possible. This is relatively surprising, especially when you look at the picture that has solidified in the past weeks in the run-up to this discussion. It was already very, very clear, banishments, and I have missed this clear commitment to the right to exist of trade unions to this day. I am pleased that you have so clearly formulated this today, and I wish that this understanding that a trade union is simply one of the foundations of our democratic society, including the members of the Freedom Party. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This government, in particular, still has and still has a very, very strong impact on the interests of the weaker, the women's rights, the environment, the workers' rights. We would be pleased if, in the context of welcoming the social partners, we were not only talking about the welfare of the economic location – that is important, undisputed – but also about legitimate interests and concerns which are constantly lacking, but which for us are the reason for the need for such representations – independent of parties. I am therefore very, very important to one of our Greens: We need a social partnership and also a trade union, but we need it in a form that does not remind us of the image, where a few older gentlemen sit in a back room and consult laws, make up everything in terms of point and emphasis, and then pass it on to Parliament. This was also the principle criticism of the Greens in the old social partners. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of Abg. That's not what I'd like to do: "older gentlemen"!]] However, I must also take an illusion for the future, Mr Verzehnitsch or also future President and President of the ÖGB: This situation will never exist again – and that is good! – even if there is once again a red-black government or a red federal chancellor. We simply do not want these states anymore, because that has nothing to do with democracy. This was packaging and has actually questioned many fundamental pillars of democratization and legitimacy. That was our principle criticism. There will no longer be a return process in this area. The future looks different, we imagine it much more democratic. It has been introduced today by the Chamber of Commerce Act, but our fundamental requirement for democratization and legitimacy of such institutions is not included in it either. This is very sad because Mr Leitl, President of the Chamber of Commerce, has always been very committed to modern understanding, but democratization is not taking place in this area either. We want and wish for a strong expansion of democratic structures in the ÖGB and have therefore made a request today. The explanatory statement makes a number of points which show what we are talking about and what is very important if we now want to take up the debate on social partnership in a constructive way. We want to see that there can be a will-building of positions among members as well. We want there to be transparent democratic legitimacy and elections. Mr Oellinger has already mentioned this: A election of Mr Dörfler would not have been possible at all! - That must not be true, says everyone. This opportunity not to take now would be a serious mistake. That is why our request, our request, our appeal to the ÖGB: Please think seriously about democratization! I can also address this to the industrial association and the Chamber of Commerce. Today, as has been said, we have been given the Economic Chamber Act. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is simply too little, legitimate concerns, which have always been too short to comply alone in the form of referendums. I'm just saying, Women's referendums are no longer contemporary. There must be any other representation of women's policy. There must be a different representation of migrants and their rights. There must be a different representation and a serious take-up of workers who are today subject to quite different employment biographies. In the U.S., the average working life now looks like this – I heard it again today – three professional changes, thirteen job changes. Mr. Khol! These are biographies of especially young people who do not live up to this idea of representation. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you also charge me to the "older gentlemen"?]] We also need to take such groups into account much more closely! – In the past, this was also the criticism of the ÖGB's policy. Our great wish, which I can finally express here, is... – Please, Mr Khol? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you also charge me to the "older gentlemen?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you also call me the "older Men", along with Mr. Vergestnitsch?]] – You do not need to be offended now, but the impression that came from the social partners – behind red closed doors – is so. You will probably forgive me for the expression "older gentlemen", but there are many interests that have not been taken into account accordingly. Just younger people, just women could not participate in this process. That is why this criticism is also to be taken seriously and not only to be seen as a bit of coke. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to make the motion for a resolution which Mr Öllinger has already announced: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr State Secretary! We're aware of what that means. This is serious and decision-making, and I think we may be able to do this positively today. I would also like to make a request to justify and discuss this, but I hardly have time. This is a question that is closely related to the subject of democratisation, namely transparency, transparency, especially as regards the references. We do not want to have a mixture of state and society here, and we also fully respect the principle of coalition freedom, but we are nevertheless submitting the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14078	The two motions for resolutions are properly supported and are under negotiation. This is what Mr Vergebnissch has to say. The watch is also set to 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14103	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr State Secretary, you have certainly brought the right things in your presentation over long distances, but please also allow me some clarifications: You have referred to the involvement of the social partners in the pension reform, but you can't do that with regard to the last year's invading pension reform, otherwise this Federal Government would not be able to do so. I'm sure that's what I'm saying. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, You are right that we have jointly found and transported a solution in the area of worker protection. We also had a common solution with the main association, only it did not fit in with this government, and therefore there was no agreement here either. They wanted to achieve a very specific party-political goal. The third point and the fourth point seem to me worth mentioning – I hear it now: Mandatory insurance, of course there is nothing else! Mr State Secretary! Then you would have to define the government programme, then there should not be activities like those of Mr Waneck's Secretary of State, who said only last weekend that it would be advisable to consider that the service providers no longer need to be allowed to fall into the current form of compulsory insurance, but that they should be able to vote. So, either – or! What does this Federal Government stand for? . The government agreement states that it should be examined that Mr Waneck had a working group that he had reintroduced, but last Sunday he "put it out" again. That's where you need a line. This also applies to the finishing. You said – your own words! – you want to include seasonal workers in the settlement, but at the same time you represent the position: only after a year of operational membership. This means that all seasonal workers fall out. In this case, please stick to Mr Gaugg, who has made this clear today. It can't be that if we follow the principle that we trade unionists have repeatedly put in the foreground as social democrats, namely that everyone should enjoy the discharge, we say: But only after a year! - Then many are not included! Therefore, clearly and clearly: Payment claim starting from the first day. [[State Secretary Morak: But now after three years!]] – Yes, but you have to decide what you really want, Mr State Secretary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The same applies in connection with the question: How does it actually look with the acceptance of the questions? What is against the fact that, when we say "compulsory insurance", there is a clear positioning of this federal government? Why do you "eat" around that? – Allow me to say something disrespectful. You should put that clearly and clearly on the table. If you say you want to support the demands that are no-na demands anyway, please write this in your government program! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President, how about a little relativizing this with the dictatorship?- Oh, my God!]] Since my colleague, Mr Fassleven, is just in front of me: Mr Fassleven says: The questions do not address social policy considerations. – Mr Fassleven, I must say, with confidence, that: They have not read the questions, because if these issues do not address social policy considerations, then in some cases the ÖAAB programme will certainly not. It is also clear that this is the case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For example, Mr Prinzhorn says: The questions of the original vote are a joke. – It is likely that he is one of the questions: Stop the sale – the wild sale – also of water and forest. This seems to be disturbing to him in his design of economic policy. According to Vice-Chancellor, he is the "Mirror image of society in Parliament". – Trade unionists not! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Only once you take back the dictatorship accusation!]] Mr. Prinzhorn is the "Mirror image of the society in Parliament". Very "excellent", ladies and gentlemen! That's not our idea! I am also quite ready – I believe that this is important and necessary – to talk to every party about how trade unions should be organized. Free trade unions must continue to move, both in their political objectives and in their organisational representation. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, reform!]] But to suggest to the ÖGB that it does not move on at all is not right, for then there would be, for example, the constant discussion with this federal government, in which it is not about the government itself, but about political content. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But at the snail pace!]] Mr Khol, I will be happy to follow how your party friends in the ÖGB agree to the reform of the ÖGB and will say: Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. I'm going to follow that with joy! I'll hold on to this. I am concerned about the need to involve members in a form through which they also have the direct right to vote at any level. Because the Greens complain here, there would be no choice: Of course there is a choice! Of course, you can call a board meeting, a congress to deal with any person accordingly. I do not know the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Greens, but I know the Rules of Procedure here in the House, and neither does it know the election for committee chairmen, men and women, and rightly not for the President. Mr Van der Bellen! I offered you this morning: Let us speak openly about your letter and your proposals. But I can tell you from my experience: At the last Federal Congress, her representative in the Federal Board of Directors agreed to exactly this electoral order. [[Call to the Greens: That was a mistake!]] – So how would you like it once and for all? We're going to deal with it, and that's good! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is it about? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's about the dictatorship accusation!]] We heard this spring: Fundamental opposition, trade unions demonstrate on the street, and they do not at all represent the opinion of the members. – And then several trade unionists sit together, formulate questions – then the comments I have already quoted have fallen – and then the question will be published. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the dictatorship accusation, why not withdraw it?]] – Your accusations are not exactly from bad parents! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But not "dictatur"!]] Please, the Chairman of the KPdSU will be in front of you after your division! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But this is a fine difference! You could have pulled him back! You compared the government with a dictatorship!]] Here is a freely elected Member who answers: We have a different idea of freedom and free organizations than these. – You can find out who that was, Mr. Westenthaler! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you really deal with the questions and these are no-na questions anyway – I assume that the majority of you here in the hall are even union members – then I invite you to participate in the original vote and to express your opinion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In reality, what stands here is not an attack on the location Austria, but rather a support of the location Austria. This is written to a minister in the master book, which is strangely always referred to here in the house as only a minister of economics. But probably it is his approach, because as Minister of Labour, he would have to say: These questions have more authority than ever – in the requirements that this government has.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14301	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. For him too, the watch is set to a voluntary red time limit of 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14322	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I am a trade unionist. I was a member of the trade union, a strong trade union officer. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Have you already chosen?]] I was one of the many small officials who do this work every day, and I know the life of a trade union official. I am telling you, Mr President Vergestnich, from our side there will not be these trade union hostile statements because we believe that the union is necessary in our system. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, the ÖGB – that is your responsibility – has lost confidence in large areas of workers, it has lost confidence. If it were so – I would like a little more humility, Mr President of the Council – that everything is all right, then you might not have had this crisis. I am going to tell you what to change from my point of view and from our point of view, namely from the point of view of the EIA, I think. You know, Mr President, the debate on the pension reform that has been considered necessary in the meantime has greatly affected me. We know very well that there is for and against, but there is no way of reforming the pension system. At that time there were votes. The one or other official of us, of the ÖVP, found himself on letter-type convoluts of the ÖGB, on which stood: "These Members too voted in favour of this reform." – I was so affected at the time – ladies and gentlemen Fink is not here right now, he is a trade union officer himself – that I said it was impossible for the union to do the task of opposition or SPÖ. That is what you have done with your ÖGB, Mr Vergestnich! That is critical, and we do not really stand up to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Conspicuous: The voting behaviour is public!]] Mr Vergestnitsch! At the time, they denounced some of our officials. In the meantime, you are at the heart of criticism, even with your own functionals. We are not those who demand your redemptions, nor will we participate in them – neither the ÖAAB nor the ÖVP nor the FCG. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] We need a strong ÖGB. I believe that there must be no such conditions as in England or America. I mean, however, that the ÖGB must be ready to change its way of life, and I know what I'm talking about. I've experienced this myself as a functional. It is, of course, as the colleague of the Greens has said, that democratic participation in your apparatus is very difficult, but of course many trade union members wish for it. I should also like to say, Mr President of the Council. We should perhaps take an example of the reform of the Chamber of Commerce. That's what we should do. One of the social partners has lived to see a reduction in membership contributions. There is a broad spectrum there, there is a new Rules of Procedure and much more. Ladies and gentlemen! We as the ÖVP not only stand for the ÖGB, but also for the social partners to continue, only not in the form they have been in for 50 years, because we believe that this old kind of social partnership is obsolete. Social partnership must no longer continue to be state in the state. It should no longer be possible for the social partners to determine what the government or Parliament has to do. We have a completely different view. [[Abg. No, we don't! We have the same opinion!]] We also believe that it is necessary for the union to deal critically with the government there or there, of course. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is legitimate for the ÖGB to ask six questions. Only: A trade union and intellectual master achievement was not these questions from my point of view, I really have to tell you, Mr Vergestnich! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I believe that social partnership should develop rapidly. I believe that, in addition to the social partnership negotiations, there should also be operational agreements in which the Regional Works Council should also have a say, because I believe that it will significantly strengthen the identity of the worker if a works council says: Now we have built up our operation, the operation is well done, we want to participate in the success of this operation! – This is our attitude and understanding of partnership and partnership. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That happens every day! That happens every day! Don't ask for something that's already there!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is open access to all educational institutions in Austria. There is in reality – be we quite honest, because it has been yanked and criticized – not a single person who alone cannot study because she cannot afford it. We know very well that the scholarships have been increased precisely by the amount that the tuition fees represent. We know very well that the functioning of the public service, Mr Glawischnig, who was concerned about it, is upright. I would like to see a reform of the trade union within the meaning of the Public Service Trade Union, in which some things have happened – also in the sense of democratization. [[Abg. Vergestnichtisch: Probably, Colle Neugebauer has different views!]] We as ÖVP also stand for the public service. We stand by the fact that the official or the contract staff who does his work every day is well paid that he is well rewarded, has career opportunities and training opportunities. That's what we're talking about. [[Abg. Silhavy: potential for savings in public service!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Colleague! It cannot be that any reform can be rejected from the house at the same time. I'm just calling e-government. This is a wonderful idea that should be quickly helped to break through. It actually benefits the state because it costs less, and it brings a lot to the citizens, because it actually started the administrative reform, ladies and gentlemen. Your request also includes the situation with regard to electricity and electricity distribution, because one is concerned about how this will look in the future. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is the very classic task of policy to ensure that the current ETUs can survive, so to speak, through partnerships and through cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll finish. The ÖGB is not the SPÖ. He is also more than a resident and a Nuremberger. From our point of view, the ÖGB is part of a proven system, which is modernized and democraticized, which belongs quickly, but not abolished! The ÖGB, Mr Vergestnich, is too important for us to let it be broken by the SPÖ or its own officials. [[Abg. Silhavy: Above all, the GÖD!]] Ladies and gentlemen! From us you will be able to hear a commitment to a new democratic and one of its role justifiable ÖGB again and again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14471	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14493	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! At the top of my remarks I make a clear commitment to the ÖGB original vote. As a Democrat, I will accept and respect the result. However, I regret that an original vote is carried out – the first – which is party-politically motivated. [[Abg. Forbidden: With the voices of the liberals!]] Mr President. This is, and in itself, the bad thing about the ÖGB wanting to pick up the failures of recent years within a short period of time. Because we have always been articulated by individual members – including you – in sharper form – we have all been able to stop today, I must say: If I read in an issue that Mr. Schüssel is filled with power and wants to destroy the country, that can't be trade union work! That's why the whole thing is critical. We need a functioning representation of interests over the parties. The ÖGB confesses itself in its program on extraparticipality, but it apparently only speaks to Mrs. Silhavy, otherwise nobody speaks at all in the ÖGB. Mr Nürnberger has called on his colleague, Ververtnich, to become a little more flexible. It's not an accusation. [[Abg. Silhavy: Which broadcast do you quote? Which broadcast do you quote? Which broadcast do you quote?]] – Listen once, listen to your members once, then you will probably make social policy once and not just yell in here constantly. [[Abg. Silhavy: Tell me what you quoted!]] The broadcast – I will give you, I will gladly make you available. It's in the standard. One was Mr. Sallmutter, who speaks of power and absolute subjection, and the other was Mr. Nürnberger, who said that the Federal Chancellor is destroying the country. A little more caution in Your choice of words would be more reasonable, as well as a little more hardness in the material argumentation! That is what Members would like. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] What are the expectations of your members? How do you know that? – You have had a terrible start from the defensive. I am surprised that you, Mr President Verzellnich, came to the speaker's desk today and did not send colleague Csörgits – but, okay, I accept that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: "In about!" "In about!" Mrs. In-twa-Csörgits!]] We need to strengthen social partnership. But what has happened in recent months? - A self-deficiency! In the question of "reconciling" – where is the proposal of the social partners? Where is the proposal from the social partners on "rehandling"? Where is the proposal of the social partners, in particular the ÖGB for its members, on the extension of occupational pension schemes? Where is the proposal of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation on the question of new occupations, new independence, atypical employment? – You can't always wait for a congress. [[Abg. Inconsistency: concrete!]] Imagine that the Congress will not take place until 2010, then we have missed another ten years. [[Abg. Listen! Listen!]] Mr President. That is the accusation: do not ask No-Na questions and, on the other hand, overlook the important tasks! Where are the social security schemes? Where is the extension of the self-determination rights of the members of the ÖGB? – There are structures there that have nothing to do with democracy. There will be sent and elected by acclaim and not by elections. I have the impression that we are talking about flexible working hours in the world of work, but there is a rigid thinking in the ÖGB. Why don't you get rid of it? The fact that you are sitting here as a Social Democratic MP is right – but you cannot be head of the ÖGB at the same time, above-party, and here you represent the interests of a party exclusively. You misuse your function as ÖGB President for SPÖ! That is the objection to this situation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have to make this accusation to you. Not only do I make it to you, they also make the greens. They are now making a urgent request – at a time of time I must say, because I would have expected a somewhat more intelligent construction than writing off the questions from the original vote, a bit of creativity, a little more, dear Karl. [[in the direction of the Abg. Parent]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He also posters on SPÖ-plakats!]] [[Abg. Verbatim: GEWISTA!]] – Yes, the others will no longer make them available to him. This is probably a financial contribution for the Marode SPÖ to pay something for lending the poster stand. As President of the ÖGB at the head of the ÖGB, you, Mr Vergestnich, have social responsibility, not socialist responsibility; this is always confused. The only way to deal with non-social-democratic trade unionists in your ÖGB is not necessarily democratic, in the run-up to the national executives, in the individual trade unions not necessarily as we would wish. [[Abg. Inconsistency: concrete!]] – I am not going to extend the evening with individual examples, but say one: They are exploring the development in the world. From time to time, the ÖGB seems to me like a residual fossil of a past political period – a little more eastern of us! With old methods we will not master the future! Solution Please get away from it! For example, we hear the word "globalization". How does the ÖGB react? - Not at all! What is the need for improved education, training and training? We also constantly hear the word "profit maximization". – But where are the models of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation for employee participations? Where are they? Where are results visible? – Nowhere, because you are constantly and constantly engaged in either hiking or questions about how to disturb the work of this federal government. This is the only objective of the union union. They have become the extended arm of the SPÖ! This is a pity because in recent years you have had the opportunity to hold a demonstration. There were savings packages that were much more painful. They would have had the opportunity to hold a preliminary vote on whether the members of the Trade Union Confederation agreed that the social partners were sitting in Parliament. Then we would have the legitimacy. Quite clearly! This will always be a mystery. Only in a functioning and good economy is it possible to have good and healthy jobs. The financial condition of the Republic from 1999 to today: Rehabilitation – you know that very well – is simply necessary because your party also has to run a rehabilitation course of a financial kind and then be generous again and see that there is a corresponding employment. We've already experienced that in the morning. It will no longer be like this in the future: it will be independent – since it is self-employed. The forms of employment are changing. There will be many different forms of employment in the working life, in the 30, 40, 50 years of a person's working life. That is why we also need appropriate answers. I would also expect more honesty from both sides. If teachers in Austria are required to work half an hour more, then there is an uprising, then there are strikes, then there are congregations. A scandal!, it's called. And: The Republic is crashing. – Conversely, I find it this way: If there is to be or exists a social improvement somewhere, immediately the call is "plead of the economy!" There. - Both of them are over-emphasized. "Pry the economy!", "Location at risk of Austria!" - I can't afford that much. This is not a threat to the location of Austria. Finally, the quality of the products and the work performance of the employees is crucial to whether we are internationally viable. I say, without money, no social policy! – That too will be crucial. I am disappointed somewhere that this opportunity of the future's social and workers' policy, with little love, has been prepared, has asked seven questions, because social and workers' policies of the future must ultimately be driven forward with professional competence and heart, Mr President Vergestnich, with our joint work for the people of our country. This is necessary, and this must not be reduced to seven questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14660	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14681	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Allow me to begin a resolution first on the grounds of time management, including some sort of security. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would now like to respond to Mr Miedl's requests and look at the traces of "intellectual masterpieces" which he called for in the argument for the original vote of the ÖGB. I would also like to question the performance of the Secretary of State, namely why he uses the "we" concept and what he understands as "we" when he clearly documents his commitment to compulsory insurance. Since the ÖVP is not in a single government, you either have to understand yourself alone under "we" – I don't have to do that to you – or the Federal Government. I now quote from the "Ideen 2000", the liberal programme for Austria's future. In it it is written: ==References====External links== January 2000: "A transition to an insurance obligation leads to more competition and leads to a massive cost reduction." Where is this "we," I ask you? Where is the explanation that in a sentence something true is said – of course, there is more competition – but at the same time something false? – A "massive cost reduction" cannot be said even in the case of explicit scientific analysis. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The health costs measured by gross domestic product in Germany and Switzerland, which live with such systems, are said to be 2 percentage points below that of Austria. The health insurance contributions in Germany are between 10.5 and 15 percent, with us between 6.5 and 9.1 percent. Where is the "massive cost reduction"? Where is intellectual honesty or fairness? Or quite simply: Where is the data analysis? . You have now needed an expert committee which has submitted an interim report whose clarity is without any doubt. If – what is not to be excluded, but it would be strange – something else come out in the final report, I wonder how much intellect it will then need to explain and explain these discrepancies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Perhaps this is related to the fact that bowls always emphasize: Don't be afraid! If he says, don't be afraid, I suppose he'll have a reason to say that. When he emphasizes this over and over again, he will also have thought about why he says that. And this allows anxiety – even if we should not be afraid, because we can also defend ourselves. In this way, I say this optimistically, the ÖGB could help us considerably. – I would like to say a few words about the ÖGB. Now on the subject of compulsory insurance: It is clear that the rules of the market must, to a large extent, naturally be respected in certain limits, especially in the social market economy – in which our party does not differ centrally from others. But there is already a need to differentiate as the rules of the market and competition in the health system come across borders, because health systems are essentially unable to work profit-oriented. That's clear, too. They also quote the term "flexibility" over and over again – which may be another reason for fear. I think we all need flexibility: all the parties, the Federal Government, the health policy, the main association, the cash registers, the universities. There is nothing to be said about it. But if flexibility in the Federal Government focuses mainly on what is called character, then it becomes worrying. Flexible characters, flexible opinions, purple trees in the argumentation I do not consider desirable, not even a flexibility in the argumentation or in the effort to find ever more harsh arguments for the enforcement of your own power claims towards the main association, cash registers, ÖGB, schools, universities, so all those organizations that are in your mind somewhere a thorn. That's what's worried about. We should not, however, be afraid. If we are on the side of the ÖGB, I would like to quote the first request of the ÖGB again. The ÖGB calls for the participation of workers in all areas of the working world to be extended. – I would have liked to read: in all areas of the world of work and in the field of the ÖGB. I don't want to tell anecdotes from my life, but some of the things I've experienced and experienced in negotiations were not like a 1 : 1-Forward of current structures or current forms of opinion. However, I see the ÖGB as a very essential pillar in an Austrian policy of consensus, and that is a higher value than individual abuses here too much. But even though the Lamperl is already beginning to shine, I come to an intellectual crossword. The Federal Government has repeatedly argued that these questions are ultimately stupid because they are "no-na-net" questions. According to general Austrian language understanding, I understand "no na net" – this is heard more often –: That makes sense, of course, I agree. But if you understand "no na net" what the breaks make between the words and "no" You want to show your English skills, with "na" the No of the Western Austrian dialect and with "net" the No of the Vienna dialect, then you said "no na net" three times no to these questions. If that is the case, then this is intellectually unreasonable and one of the main pillars of the Austrian social state would be quite properly shaken. There'd be fear. But we're not afraid yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14795	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14820	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I stand here as a worker and I say to the original vote. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] In Atomic, if you want to know exactly. Mr State Secretary! I would also like you to stand by what you say, as you have emphasized in your remarks that there should in no way be any deterioration of existing systems. As a worker, I'm telling you: We already have enough deterioration! In order not to go further, as employees, we want to support this catalogue of questions, these six important issues. I believe that most of you have not really looked at and read these questions, otherwise there would be no discussion about them. Question 1 by the ÖGB: "We demand that the Austrian social partners be strengthened. The participation of workers must be extended to all areas of the world of work." - I'm saying that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Question 2: "We demand the maintenance of compulsory insurance, so that everyone – regardless of their income – can rely on health and pension services in the future." - I'm saying that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Question 3: "We demand that wage increases and working hours continue to be regulated by the unions in collective agreements." - I'm saying that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not want to see, as in England, where wage increases are regulated by law and the current hourly wage is 55 S... [[Abg. Young: Who's ruling there? Isn't that a social democrat?]] But there it is regulated by law, and there people have no chance, even if the product brings more money in economically. [[Abg. Young: What's Tony Blair?]] But that is not just the case there, there are several countries where this is handled. That's why: Voices You're up to our demands! On Question 4: "We demand a right of termination from the first day – even in the case of self-announcement – with free availability by workers." - I'm saying that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On question 5: "We call for a school and vocational education offensive to improve the prospects for the future of all. The aim is: open access to education without social barriers." – I’m saying that because I come from a family of nine children. My father was a miner. At the time, I had no chance to learn what I would have liked, because in school it was determined who was in which class train. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That was once!]] - That was at my time. They want us back there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: That's just a fright! That's irresponsible!]] On question 6: "We call for the maintenance of the functioning of public services and the cessation of irrevocable sale of public property (e.g. businesses) – businesses that go well, I say – "power, water, forests) to secure our basic supply." - I'm saying that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have the opportunity to agree to these questions. I am voting in favour of social justice and I also urge you to support this original vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14970	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grünewald at the beginning of his debate on the maintenance of compulsory insurance has been properly signed and is therefore part of the debate. The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14994	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Even though our memory of the immeasurable human suffering, which is the act of terror on the 11th. We must return to the agenda and to reality on September, which is the most important issue of today's day. Nothing must and should not conceal the fact that other important issues, such as this urgent request, are also to be addressed. The destruction of the Austrian social system has led the ÖGB to hold an original vote under the title "vote for social justice". As a union member, I have been a member since I was 14. I regard it as my duty and as a matter of course to take part in this original vote. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, here in the House and to all ÖGB members, to do so. The questions that are asked are not often enough to be remembered. – My colleague mentioned these questions earlier. Why do I agree? – All that the workers have worked out in recent years is deliberately destroyed by this government: to enforce its power and bring its people to certain top positions. Everything that then condemned and criticized the opposition is now carried out in full force and power. I'm also very concerned about the health system. Although Mr Waneck believes that there should be no two-class medicine, I can tell you about an experience on the weekend. Four doctors have complained to me that the health system will be broken down. Financial resources for research shall be deleted. Devices that need to be used for this can no longer be purchased because the money is missing. What will be the end of the song? – The two-class medicine will keep in progress: Those who can afford it will be able to finance their recovery – and the others will stay on the track. That's all there was before. I just remember my childhood: It was not easy for a worker to spend a family – let alone use the health system. But that's where we're going, unfortunately, to come back! If Mr Westenthaler believes that all these are just "no-na-questions", or even Mrs. Rauch-Kallat blows into the same horn, they can be helped: Accept the questions of the ÖGB and this urgent request! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Bartenstein was also involved in the discussion by saying that the ÖGB original vote would be a "attack to Austria's economic location". – The opposite is the case! Of course, the Federal Minister sees this from a different perspective, and it is with God really a different from that of a worker or an employee. Ladies and gentlemen! This ÖGB original vote shall be carried out on a cross-party basis. At an event last week in my district of Neusiedl, ÖVP functional solidarity also showed me. Also, Mr Gaugg – who is not present now – could give his approval to this original vote, because this vote will give a clear signal of how the trade union intends to deal with its future issues. I personally support this social justice and ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to do the same. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15110	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Gusenbauer and others on transparent income arrangements for the entire social partnership area, which Mrs Pfeffer has now presented, is in accordance with the rules of procedure and is therefore part of the negotiations. Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15136	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Relatively moderate tones were to be heard in this debate, quite different from in the run-up to the debate on the current original vote. From our, from my point of view, it was very disappointing that no one, not a single representative, has said anything about the only statement of a member of the government who was not moderate. A original vote, which came to term as "attack", is truly unique and groundless! I think it sad that you were not able to name this clearly. Ladies and gentlemen! It also surprises me that you highlight your criticism that this original vote – from my point of view: of course – bears oppositional character. What else should she have?! – The list of loads for workers is long. These are some of the burdens that have not only affected the self-employed, but also the enterprises, the employees and employees. In particular, I miss some statement from the representatives of the economy in the direction of their members of the government, for example because the compensation fund has been abolished. There are, I suppose, some representatives of the economy who know how small businesses are in addition. With your representatives in the economic organizations, they miss out on any independent social partnership activity – and obviously expect it from all. But that won't be played anymore! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This original vote is not a "attack" but rather a very, very late reaction to a burden policy which we have also complained of from the Greens under previous governments, especially when it came to removing, under the title Budget Rehabilitation Fund, which has been saved for special purposes, in particular the Reserve Fund under the Unemployment Insurance Act over and over again, by billions. In our opinion, a cry should have taken place much earlier. But I'm glad he's finally taking place, though late. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If they are "no-na-questions", we will see if you are able to agree to them – according to today's words – obviously natural demands. I can only be surprised that, on the one hand, you complain of a lack of willingness to reform at the trade union, but on the other hand, you seem to have gone too far in opposition. For my part, I also miss the government, not only in this one, but also in the governments before, reform impulses towards social partnership. A debate should have taken place for a long time in view of the growing difference in wages and salaries, given the growing gap also in income levels between the sexes, namely a debate on basic security in Austria. The government or the majority of the government in the National Council could have given rise to social partners. – But nothing came from you! I also miss a reform impulse, which we have long called for, and which would not be an irregular interference in self-government towards women's equality within the social partners. There are already equality laws everywhere – in public service and in a way also in the private sector – but this principle is still very limited in the field of social partners. I'll get you together. I miss a statement on the only really dangerous statement – and that was that of the Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs. You've remained guilty of this statement. And I miss out on the part of the government any willingness to bring meaningful reform impulses into the social partners. The cry of yours that this is an oppositional instrument is an abundant cry, for this oppositional moment we Greens had already expected us much, much earlier.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15208	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. The remaining speaking time of the Green Group is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15230	Mr President. I can actually make it shorter. We are talking about a resolution which has already been tabled, namely that of the highly valued colleagues Gusenbauer, Vergestnich and comrades on transparent income regime for the entire social partnership, income pyramid and so on, since there is no problem, that is quite clear; the most important ones are already covered. It would be very interesting to come back to who constantly boycotts there that the law will also be observed. I emphasize: That's a federal constitution law! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] We have already discussed here in plenary a few times that the Chambers of Commerce are refusing to see the Court of Auditors, which is the result of the fact that this Federal Constitutional Act on income disclosure cannot be properly executed. There will be more to talk about. I am just saying that blue and black officials in the Chambers are particularly involved in refusing to see the Court of Auditors. – From the disclosure of remunerations and incomes in interest groups! But where we note particular scepticism, that is the point that the same principle can be transferred to voluntary representations of interests. The difference to the Greens' motion for a resolution is precisely that we provide for a voluntary submission of the ÖGB. The publication of the Court of Auditors' income report, so to speak, is provided for under the law, while the SPÖ's request at least suggests that voluntary interest representatives should then also be subject to certain salary rules which are specified elsewhere, and whether by law, by Parliament. We do not consider this suggestion to be a target. Although it does not explicitly stand inside, you think that would end, it would run out on it. Unfortunately, since we have no other interpretation, we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15281	There is no further statement of words to this effect. That concludes the debate. We come to the votes and I ask you to take the places. First of all, we are voting on the self-employed request of the Members of Parliament, Mr Oellinger, Mr Glavisch, Mr Freundes concerning the position of the Federal Government on the demands of the ÖGB original vote, which is based on today's urgent debate. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on self-promulgation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – The request has not received the necessary majority and is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Silhavy: (in the direction of ÖVP and the Freedom) What about...?]] Next, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades on the possibility of voluntary reporting under the BVG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Next, we shall vote on the request by Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades on the maintenance of compulsory insurance in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Pure populism!]] We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades on transparent income arrangements for the social partnership sector. I would ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. That is what we have done with this item on the agenda. Before I open the negotiations on the 2nd. I would like to repeat the item on the agenda as follows: It is known that a third house meeting will take place after the second house meeting. It is still to be announced at which time it will take place. In the early days, I meant that we should interrupt one hour between the second and the third sessions in order to carry out the discussions in the Budget Committee. However, it is now being signaled to me by representatives of several political groups that they believe they will be enough for 30 minutes. This decision can be made if this is a proper assessment of the actual duration of the negotiations in the Budget Committee. It would not be desirable for this third meeting to be convened, but the Budget Committee would not have completed its deliberations. If, therefore, there is consensus that a 30-minute interruption is to be foreseen between the second and the third sessions, Parliament's management will prepare the Croquis in this way. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed in this way. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15389	I now take the negotiations on the second. The item on the agenda on the joint report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives was resumed. I call Mr Gahr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15413	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to make a brief comment on the request for the "Sudden abolition of the pension tax on accidents". The reintroduction of the taxation of accident pensions was decided in the National Council to achieve equal treatment for accident pensions and invalidity pensions. It was and is difficult to argue that a person who receives an invalidity pension in case of illness must pay taxes for it, but someone who has suffered an accident is tax-free. For this reason, the taxation of accident pensions is not "unjustice", as stated in the petition, but equality and adaptation to existing legal bases. Mr Inge Jäger's petition on "Slow abolition of accident pension taxation" has been dealt with and dealt with in the Committee by the government groups. They have stated that they have shown insight and have shown courage to compensate for hardships. Out of 108 000 accident pensioners, 60 percent – 65 000 citizens – are in the hard fight. People who earn less than 20 000 S per month receive the tax as a whole upon request. In the case of a earnings of between 20 000 S and 23 000 S gross, there will be a partial refunding scheme. This scheme applies to existing accident pensions and is retroactive from 1. January 2001 is valid. In addition, there is a legal claim to existing accident pensions. The additional income, which may be increased by the taxation and approximation of invalidity pension and accident pensions, amounts to half of the people with disabilities. This money will create better access to the labour market for disabled people. Measures to help the population most in need of assistance will be financed through the billions of disabled people. The accident pension tax is therefore not a arbitrary measure, but a political decision taken taking into account existing legal bases and regulations and drawn up with the involvement of experts and experts. For all of us taxes are not joy, but are necessary. Policy has the duty to distribute taxes as fairly as possible. It is unsocial to unilaterally distribute tax burdens, but it is social to create tax revenue and thus to secure our social system for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15462	The next speaker is Mr Zellot. He'll get the word. The clock is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15483	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! As a whole, the Committee on Petitions's report shows that there is a need for citizens to co-design and stimulate projects, but of course there are also changes and wishes relating to their immediate habitat. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If you read and discuss the collective report and the individual petitions carefully, you will of course realize that there are two types of petitions: on the one hand, those whose concerns have to be clearly addressed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, regardless of whether they are noise protection measures, the improvement of transport safety or human rights. I am convinced that this close-to-commitment of the Committee on Petitions gives people the feeling of being able to co-form and improve a little. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Müller.]] On the other hand, unfortunately, it is not possible to fulfill all the wishes. However, from the point of view of the Federal Government, even those desires and suggestions that are not feasible – for whatever reason – represent a positive kind of enlightenment for the public, which helps to think properly into the situation. I mean, the citizens' suggestions show us that they want to co-form with us, and I am convinced that the Committee on Petitions – and this has shown the expert discussions – will continue to assign most petitions to the relevant committees in the future. I am also convinced that the Austrian Federal Government will continue to support the The Austrian citizens will work well.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15534	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15556	Mr President. High house! Mr Roland Zellothat means that petitions and citizens' initiatives show the needs of the citizens. [[Call to the liberals: Right!]] That's what we're sharing. Your last sentence, however, that the Federal Government should continue to take the wishes of the citizens seriously, is almost a dangerous threat, because, Mr Zellot, as seriously as you have said, unfortunately, you do not take them. The number of petitions and citizens' initiatives is increasing and this is linked to the policy of this federal government, which is a deterioration in many areas of life. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Scatter]] [[Abg. Ing. Scheuch: That's not very persistent, you bastard!]] The drastic example of accident pensioners, Mr Gahr, shows no injustice, which is now being eliminated, but the problem was that accident pensions were set at a level where it was assumed that they were not taxed. If you say, The level of accident pensions is fixed and now they are taxed, this is an injustice of all the greatest extent that is being introduced. This also does not alter the hard tissue you have introduced. Professor Mazal, quoted in this report on page 6, says very clearly that he does not believe that this new regulation is really fair now. The non-social measures are also evident in other areas, such as the closure of railway stations and postal offices, as well as a topic of the citizens' initiatives and petitions discussed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gatterer.]] As far as the postal offices are concerned, there is also a failure by the government, colleague Gatterer. You know exactly: For more than a year, Mrs Forstinger has had to adopt and adopt a Universal Service Regulation in order to clarify which post facilities remain and which can be closed. Minister Forstinger replied to a parliamentary request from me in December 2000 that this would be done immediately. – To this day, however, nothing has happened! These are failures for which this government is responsible. They bear the responsibility for each single post office and for each individual station that is closed. Let me come to the field of education; it has already been discussed today. Most of the petitions and citizens' initiatives deal with the field of education, and people's concerns are very detailed about this policy area, which is important for the future of Austria. It is about hourly cuts, about overcrowded classes instead of small, pedagogically meaningful groups, it is about demotivating teachers. The consequences of this saving course are, unfortunately, just in the current situation, despite the beautiful shipping that is being carried out here. Mr. Amon, as you look at me like this: There are currently 5 000 places for first semesters in high-school courses. Do you know how many applicants there were and how many of them passed the admission exam? - 18,000! Only 5 000 will be included. And what happens to the others for whom there is no room in these important study facilities? Similarly, the situation in middle and higher schools is dramatic. Ten thousand young people are waiting for a place, but they do not receive one because of the savings rate of this government. [[Abg. Amon: How does it look at the primary schools and AHS?]] As far as the apprenticeships are concerned, where you now want to do something: At the end of August, there were almost 4,000 open teaching posts, but more than 8,000 job seekers. Only when looking more closely at these statistics will the drama become quite clear: In the case of IT professions, where we all agree that something has to happen, there are almost 600 apprentices looking for an apprenticeship – and only 24 open apprenticeships. For communication technicians, there is no open office, although hundreds would seek such a place. This is the policy you have to answer with your saving course in the field of education. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You can't say that!]] [[Abg. Amon: That was decided together!]] These young people also have no use in telling them that they can also be cooks or waiters. The teaching committee will take place on 14 November. On November 1st, you will be discussing these concerns of citizens, so you will not be very quick to convene a meeting of the Committee on Education. It is interesting that from 6th to 13th. In November the popular desire for better quality in education takes place. At this point I call on all Austrians to show the yellow map by taking a high interest in your policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15670	The next speaker is Mr Brugger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15692	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out, in principle, that the Committee on Petitions of the National Council represents that body through which citizens of our country can have a direct influence on legislation. We here in the House need these impulses of the population and the direct participation of citizens in this process of political will-building. In addition to the good and constructive discussion climate in the Committee – which I would like to emphasize – we have always tried to help not only in individual cases, but also to develop and stimulate proposals that are to be found in legislation and implementation in the future. In this sense, the petitions we have today are an essential part of direct democracy. We liberals have always taken direct democracy seriously and also called for it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In this sense, the Committee on Petitions has been much more active today than in earlier times. Once only a few areas have been treated, it is now far more than 20 petitions. To me this is a clear, clear signal, an indicator of a quality leap in democracy. In this report, there have been two petitions, in particular, which are particularly close to my heart as a liberal and as an employee representative. On the one hand – this has already been addressed today – I mention the accident pension tax, petition number 25. When it came to the taxation of accident pensions, it was as in "normal" life: Where work is done, mistakes can also happen. We have learned from it, and this Federal Government – above all Mrs. Riess-Passer and our Social Minister Herbert Haupt – has responded promptly in the recognition of the shortcomings and has led to the reorganisation accordingly. The second petition I would like to address is petition number 16: Human rights also for SudetenGermans. In this context, I would remind you of the 1997 German-Czech Declaration of Reconciliation. This is an area where we must be extremely careful and vigilant. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My final appeal to the members of the Human Rights Committee: Moral and right must remain indivisible! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15740	The next speaker is Mr Rada. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15761	Mr President. High house! I am certainly of an opinion with my previous speakers, who have meant that the petitions that are brought in express concerns and fears of the population. It is only striking that the petitions introduced in the past half-year are concerns and fears about school and education policy. If there were still concerns and fears in June and July, many of these concerns and fears came true at the beginning of 2001/2002. The reason for this – we have discussed this several times here – is that these mischievous financial compensation negotiations between the individual federal states and the Federal Government are specifically the compulsory school sector. If many of these petitions deal with the reduction of the maximum number of students, then only for one reason: to be able to meet the teaching requirements set by the Austrian legislator. We're talking about individualization, playful forms of teaching, discovering lessons. What's the result? – Fully stuffed classes in which this teaching methodology cannot take place. If, in addition, the financial compensatory negotiations in rural areas – as Lower Austrian Members of Parliament, I know what I am talking about – lead to class combinations in primary education, this is clear and clear for me to reduce education. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] This will certainly be no different in Upper Austria than in Lower Austria, Mr Colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We decide here in the House on the integration of disabled children with special educational needs, we decide on flexible schooling stages, we decide on foreign language initiatives. What's the result? – All of this is no longer available to the extent that it has been in the previous year. We already have a somewhat strange situation: Parents in urban areas that are well situated have a good family income, join together and afford their own native speakers for their schools, provide additional accompanying teachers for school events abroad and also in Austria, because our public schools are no longer able to provide these services. We have to note marks in the field of language health education, as well as marks in the field of computer education. It cannot be the announced modern IT offensive if three and four children have to sit in a PC. This is a completely wrong policy, which is currently being pursued! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The government parties have "created" the fact that a great deal of confidence has been committed in the Austrian public school. The numbers of those students attending private schools speak a clear language. Therefore, I hope that those concerns and fears expressed in this report will be expressed on 14 May. In the course of November, the teaching committee will deal with the matter accordingly in order to bring about solutions so that the people and Members who have submitted the petitions will recognise that their concerns and fears will also be understood.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15829	The next speaker was Mr Reindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15850	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First I have the petition number 11 on the maintenance of the guard room St. Pölten/St. Georgen. This petition was made by Mr Anton Heinzl from the Socialist Group on the basis of repeated media reports. Except for newspaper reports, there's nothing specific yet. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the good right of the population and the mayor to sit down for the Wehr when the closure of a gendarmerie post or a police guard room is planned. I know what I am talking about, I am a general army official myself and the gender army post of my Styrian home community is also affected by this innovation. The Gendarmerieposten of my home community, as well as many others in Austria, is to be combined with the Gendarmerieposten of the neighbouring community. You can believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that I am not just happy about closures of Gendarmerie Posts or police guards. High house! Reforms were always necessary and will be necessary in the future. Mr Heinzl, in his conclusion today, said that this government was breaking up the infrastructure. However, I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that even among the Social Democratic Ministers of the Interior, around 190 military departments were left out or assembled and hundreds of planning posts were saved in the area of security executives. [[Abg. Auer: (in the direction of SPÖ) There you have also held your ears!]] – That’s right, colleague. It has been found that in the councils, these measures relating to the merger of the Gendarmerie Posts and the police guards meeting the current Federal Government are strongly criticised and municipal councils of the Socialist Group are also calling on the ÖVP mayors to consider measures against these new schemes. What measures are to be taken? – I asked a councillor – I am still in the council itself – a SPÖ collegiate: What measures did you take when social democratic mayors were affected by changes by the Social Democratic Minister of the Interior? Unfortunately, he has not been able to answer me. I have told him that if he can give me an answer, we may be able to take more effective measures to prevent such closures. Ladies and gentlemen! However, all safety executive restructuring must be guided by one thought: The security of the population in our country must in all cases be guaranteed! [[Abg. Gaál: It is no longer guaranteed!]] – It is probably as secure as it is during the time of the Social Democratic Minister of the Interior, there is no dispute about it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] A few words on the petition number 14 on increasing road safety in the example of visually distorted zebra strips. Together with the honourable Magistrate. I had a worm, Haidlmayr, Gatterer and my colleague, Schwemlein. May this year the possibility to visit the project work of the BORG Mittersill on site. For the first time, the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, I believe, has taken advantage of the opportunity to assess a project on the ground and has therefore shown a particular proximity to the citizen. At this point I would also like to thank the teachers and students of the BORG Mittersill. [[Congratulations on the liberals, the ÖVP and the SPÖ.]] It was really impressive how much commitment this project work was prepared and presented. The Transport Committee will continue to deal with this matter in detail, as Mrs Wolf has already done in her statement. A statement by the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology is already in place, and I am sure that, after an in-depth review, the right decision will also be taken on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15918	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15939	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on the petition number 14. Why did I bring this petition? – In principle, because the commitment of young people is always to be supported, and for the second reason, because the preparatory work of the students of the BORG Mittersill shows a significant improvement in road safety. I can give you, ladies and gentlemen, all of you, the chairman of the Committee. Worm, from this point of view, thank you very much for seeing the possibility to be shown on site of this project. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But please also give me a strong comment. The students, under the supervision of Professor Ninaus, have been very intensive about how in the municipality of Mittersill, safety can be increased especially at those intersections that the students unfortunately have to cross very often? They noted: The problem is the drivers; the drivers who, despite all the signs, travel too fast. Within the EU, there are already countries that are modifying their road traffic regulations so that other forms of zebra strips can be applied, even visually distorted zebra strips. These zebra strips give the driver the impression that a floor wave is in front of him. It then reduces speed, and due to the slower speed of passage, the safety for the pedestrian increases. I think we should all be interested in better protecting pedestrians and pedestrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! An urgent request to you all here in the house: The students expect us to deal with this matter as quickly as possible; they probably have no understanding that if they actively act as citizens, we will not be able to change a law matter as ever. It is therefore high time that this matter was dealt with in the Transport Committee. I say quite frankly to you that I think that some of the amendments to the present opinion of the Ministry of Transport are more cynical than factual. I would ask you to work in the Transport Committee to create the legal basis for applying such zebra strips where you want to, that model projects also receive legal certainty. By putting this into practice together, we also strengthen the faith of the students in politics, that is, the citizen is able to influence not only the legislative body but also decisions that also affect his life. – It is up to us to strengthen this faith.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15991	The next item is the speech by Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e16012	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Most of these petitions concern education. We must first deal with the issues in the Committee, but it is nevertheless important for me to keep in mind that the issue of high school students deserves a very serious discussion. In Austria, more than 2,000 classes have exceeded the maximum number of school students defined by law last year. Today, I would appreciate, without knowing the exact figures, that some 100 000 pupils in Austria are particularly affected by this in education and vocational education and training schools. As a counter-argument of the government, it is usually to be heard that we are in the OECD section. This helps those concerned – admittedly: they are not all, but there are specific groups – that is, those who sit in these classes, very little. At least it would have to be important to comply with the law, and this provides that a breach of this maximum should only be permitted in exceptional cases. Unfortunately, however, it has become practical in Austria instead of creating the necessary places, simply exceeding the maximum number of students. As we are no longer going to discuss the report in plenary, but in committee, I now call on the government parties to deal with this matter more seriously than in the past, and not with OECD numbers, but with how they can at least ensure compliance with what is in the law in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e16053	The next speaker was Mr Wimmer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e16075	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to deal with the petition number 25, which concerns the lifting of the accident pension tax with immediate effect. It is really no coincidence that almost every speaker mentioned this petition here and today. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that it is a pity that this petition, this important concern, was rejected by the majority of the government groups in the Committee on Petitions. The people concerned – they are well over 100,000 – are not heard, their interests are not represented in any way. I say from this point on to government groups: This will be a revenge! The persons concerned, who are partly threatened in their existence, will still present the invoice. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Who are these people who are really affected? They are mainly workers, farmers, and 60 percent of these people are no longer in employment. 60 percent of these people are no longer able to work due to injuries they have suffered in an accident in working life and are therefore in retirement. So they're double-punished. These people have lost an average of 30 percent of their pension. In view of this, it is already remarkable that Mr Pumberger dares to speak here and speaks of "political motivation". – Mr Pumberger, with so much social "competence" you run a little cold over your back! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! I am sorry that the chance of a fair social solution has not been realized. Personally, I am firmly convinced that the Constitutional Court will abolish this rightful law. But I also say quite honestly: I am not unhappy that the rigid attitude of this government keeps giving us the opportunity to express our position. We'll do that again and again, even if it's already hanging out on our necks. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This accident pension tax is immediately abolished – and we social democrats will fight for it with all their strength.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e16124	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 684 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. That is why the request has been accepted. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-09-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00077_d7e16169	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 502/A to 521/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2814/J to 2886/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, I call for today, Wednesday, 26. September 2001, 5:11 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting – one. The sitting is closed.
