ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e1540	Ladies and gentlemen! I very much welcome you, may I ask you to take the places and open the 59. Meeting of the National Council, which, on the basis of a business order request under § 46 para. 6 GOG has been called up. The official protocols of 57. Meeting of the National Council of 1 and 2. ==References== Meeting of the 2nd meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and The following Members are reported as preventing the present meeting: Kurt Eder, Dietachmayr, hunter, Mag. Kubitschek, Dr. Mertel, Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn, Mag. Posh, barter, ing. Gerhard Bauer, Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mag. Mühlbachler and Dr. Pilz. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e1580	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 GOG to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e1763	Mr Van der Bellen has asked for the self-employed amendment 397/A (E) by Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Comrades on "Education offensive now!" to be treated in an urgent manner. For the purposes of the provisions you all know and I do not need to refer here, this urgent request will be called at 3 p.m. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e1789	I would also like to say that, prior to the entry into the agenda, Mr Kostelka has requested the Financial Committee to report on the motion for a resolution 387/A by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Genossen concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988, a period of time of until 13. ==References====External links== In this context, there is also a sufficiently supported desire to hold a short debate on this deadline. Given that a urgent request has been envisaged for today's meeting, as has just been announced, the short debate will be held after the debate on the urgent request has been concluded and the vote will take place immediately after the debate. I would also like to say that Mr Kostelka has also asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on Amendment No 391/A (E) by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades on the abolition of non-social and safe measures by the Federal Government. This is the first time we've seen it in the European Union. A debate is not scheduled in this context. The vote on this request for a time limit will take place after the vote on the first motion for a time limit. Finally, I would like to inform the House that Mr Kostelka has requested that the Committee on Education report on Dr Antoni's motion for a resolution (86/A) and comrades concerning a federal law amending the School Education Act 1986 be limited to 9. ==References== The vote on this request for a time limit will take place after the two previous votes have been taken after the end of the negotiations on the request for a time limit mentioned at the outset. These are the business orders to be made. I am now interrupting the meeting until 3 p.m. At 3 p.m. the negotiation of the Self-employed Application 397/A (E) with colleagues will take place Van der Bellen started. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.06 a.m. and resumed at 15.01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e1850	Ladies and gentlemen! As announced at the beginning of the meeting, I will now resume the interrupted session at 15.01 a.m. Request for urgent procedure Dr. Alexander Van der Bellenund Comrades on "Education offensive now!" (397/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e1886	We come to the debate on the urgent request made by Dr Van der Bellen, Brosz, Dr. Grünewald, friends and friends. The application has been duplicated and distributed. It is therefore located in the meeting room. A reading by a writer is therefore not necessary. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e3342	I can give the floor to Mr Van der Bellen as the first applicant to justify his request. Under the Rules of Procedure, he has a speaking time of 20 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e3364	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We hear a lot about educational offensive, research offensive and so on in the last few days and weeks. If you've been listening to the Federal Chancellor yesterday in the press hour, you've noticed: He threw the billions around him so that you could get dizzy. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Today he listens to you!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He is competent and knows himself!]] [[The speaker turned to the government bank.]] Oh, Mr. Federal Chancellor! Say hello to God! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] We only had 2 days to think. But I am glad that the Federal Chancellor is also present personally. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mrs Bundesminister, you are making the effort and you can see what experience parents have had in recent weeks in Vienna, yes, all over Austria! We have heard of the experiences of affected parents who in recent weeks wanted their children, Mr. Westenthaler, to enroll in Vienna, yes, throughout Austria in the first class of folk school. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: election experiences! Vienna-Wahl!]] Whether an election campaign in Vienna will somehow tang the registration deadline for the public schools, Mr Westenthaler, I do not know that is your case. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] These parents experience the following: They go to schools, for example, within the framework of the "Day of the Open Door" and find out what the offer will be in autumn. They ask if there are Montessori classes, and they ask: What is the offer for the support teachers? Are there football classes? Is there music classes? Is there any theatre classes? How does the hourly offer in the field of exercises and other learning areas look like? [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] They will admit, Mr Westenthaler, that these are not completely irrelevant issues, but that parents who are concerned about the welfare and education of their children must ask such questions. But you will have lost what this parent is going to give to answer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The teachers concerned – essentially women – can only say one thing: We don't know what can be offered at our school in autumn. We just don't know. We don't know if there's going to be a freenet class, we don't know if there's going to be a computer compartment. We don't know, we don't know, we don't... The affected parents, as a affected father wrote to us last Friday, were horrified to hear that. This father expresses himself even more dramatically, but I now spare myself from repeating this word choice, which I understand to understand, which might not be quite appropriate to the dignity of this House. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You must tell your colleague Pirklhuber! He always says "Sweinstall" to Austria!]] Yes, Mr Westenthaler, it is obviously completely wretched what is happening in schools. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] He doesn't care. I often wonder, What is it? Is it unthinkable what moves the government parties in the school sector? Is it white cynicism? Is it indifference? What is it? Mr Westenthaler's calls are clearly to be interpreted: It's all together. All three explanations are at least addressed to you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is evidence of inability, this paper!]] Yeah, you think that's funny. We take seriously the concerns of the parents, the teachers, the directors and, of course, the children. You, Mr Westenthaler, may find this funny and Mr Schweitzer too, but he will still be able to speak. [[Abg. May. Trattner: That was the sweater, not the Westenthaler!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now I've been with you for the fourth time!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So far you haven't said anything! You talked for 5 minutes, but you didn't say anything!]] I didn't say anything except that the parents are horrified that they can't be told what the school offer will look like in autumn and why... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Say something in content!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] That's a smooth lie, Mr. Schweitzer. That's a smooth lie!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e3596	Mr President, please take back this expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e3613	I take that expression back. Although I do not know whether there is a synonym in the German language or in the German language for "consciously saying the untruth", I take this expression back with regret. I too sometimes feel angry about it, especially when talking about "education offensive", but the figures in the budget speak a completely different language. Mr Schweitzer. You made an intermediate call earlier. The figures that appear in our urgent request are not freely invented, they are without exception from the official data of the Ministry of Finance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And you will probably be able to look up the overview 20 of the volume of tables for the budget speech, the so-called "functional breakdown of the expenditure of the federal government". It is clear from this that, in your government period 2000 to 2002, expenditure on education, education and education will fall from 2.8 percent to 2.5% of the social product and, in the coming budget year, in 2002, will be completely reduced. They can also understand from this data why the directors in particular at the public schools in the coming autumn do not know what they can offer: because the staff costs are falling. And it is quite easy to understand in what scale the staff effort is falling, how many jobs or how many hours need to be deleted, or – this is the great alternative – how much the teachers' income has to be reduced in order to cope with the budgeted staff effort. [[Abg. Großruck: This is adventurous!]] Mr Schweitzer. Ask the teachers at the schools, not just at the schools! Let's show the payrolls, and you'll see what's going on this time! And then explain to the person concerned that there are no budgetary cuts here – if you trust. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This situation has already been given, Mr Schweitzer, this year, and in view of this budget data, it can only intensify in 2002. There will be additional hourly cuts, and there will be cuts in the number of teachers; that is absolutely clear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] The Minister of Education is Minister Gehrer of the ÖVP. She has to answer it first and foremost, completely right. But because Mr Schweitzer is so preoccupied with his calls and because the FPÖ is known to be a government party, I look at him all the time. You have to be responsible for what Mr Gehrer and your Minister of Finance, Minister Grasser, believe in us in this case. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The most massive will certainly be the deletions and cuts in the field of additional offers, in the area of so-called non-binding exercises, in the field of music education – we do not need; Let's go! Let's go! – we do not need to do so in the field of positioning; Let's go! Let's go! – in the field of theatre playing – we do not need to; Let's go! Let's go! – and so on and so on. This is your education policy – not to mention the hours of the support teachers, of the support hours not only for so-called weak children, but also for those who are exceptionally talented. What about the hours in the field of so-called mother tongue additional education? – I can already imagine that the FPÖ is the sausage. Does the ÖVP don't care? I'll be back to Vienna. In Vienna alone, more than 50 percent of all children live with a non-German mother tongue. They need a teaching of funding, an additional teaching in German and in their mother tongue – not only for humanitarian reasons, I would claim. I already know that moral appeals can be done relatively little here. But for economic reasons alone, Mr. Khol, it is necessary to understand these children as an opportunity, as an opportunity of true trilingualism: in German, English and in their native language. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This opportunity has so far been perceived imperfectly, and in the future it will no longer be perceived at all. What is missing in the elementary school, Mr Khol, is very difficult to catch up with later. I don't know what school to go to. They left. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Haspingerstraße!]] Haspingerstraße in Innsbruck; I in Trinitarians. I have very pleasant memories of this school, strict but just. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Me too!]] The children, who then had the chance to go to the gymnasium, were greatly encouraged. I have a pleasant memory of this school, unlike the gymnasium. What is missing in the folk school, Mr. Khol – and I hope you agree to me – can be very, very difficult to adjust later. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you increase the number of students in the class, if you delete the additional offers, if you save on the promotion offers, then promote to express it quite placidly, the formation of an auxiliary worker generation in ten, 15 years. Mr Khol – I speak She is responsible for the ÖVP Group – the ÖVP Group cannot wash its hands in innocence here. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] The Federal Chancellor personally takes the matter so seriously that he is present here. After the end of compulsory schooling, 8 per cent of a year's age does not make further education any more. What will happen to these people? You're talking about a knowledge society all the time, that knowledge is outdated and so on, and there you save. For economic reasons alone, this is a dissatisfaction, apart from moral categories. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can only confine myself to individual sections of the education sector, in particular compulsory schools, universities and, if I have time, the research sector. At the universities it is a little better, I admit, compared to the disaster years of the late nineties. This is clearly demonstrated by the budget data. Compared with the disaster years 1997 to 1999, the budget of the universities is increasing, and that is why you always choose this comparison. But is that enough that it is now better than in the years of disaster 1997 to 1999? That's enough for you? Have you taken into account that, compared with the early 1990s, the proportion of university expenditure on gross domestic product has declined and has not increased? And if you look at the personnel effort alone: This shows exactly the same picture as with compulsory schools. Staff costs are frozen, and that can only be called - to achieve this simple knowledge of arithmetic - that jobs are deleted and/or income of university members are reduced. This is your offensive university policy! Students who are now burdened with 10 000 s of tuition fees, assistants who are faced with existential threat in the context of the service reform, and professors who are confronted with hundreds of vacancies: This is your educational and scientific offensive? Have you been to the universities, Mr Trattner, for example, because you look at me so thoughtfully? [[Abg. May. Trattner: I'm listening to you!]] Isn't it your business to turn around? Is it just your business to decide a budget that does not meet the requirements of science? At "meiner" Faculty alone – "meiner" of course under the leading marks – economics and computer science of the University of Vienna, eight ordinary professorships are obvious. One to two, says the rectorate, may be occupied. Maybe! In the terminology of Mr. Grasser, it is well known that it is not the "Orchideenfacher". These are business, statistics and economies. How can it only look like the "Orchideen Faculties" – still in the terminology of Mr.Federal Minister Grasser – in humanities, for example, if the economists are already under-occupied and under-educated in this form? Finally, the research area. Mr. Grasser has disagreed – and I suppose he is speaking here for the entire Federal Government – ten days ago, that the Austrian research rate will be increased to 2% of GDP by next year and 2.5% by 2005. That's what I'm looking at! It is a shame that this goal is so far away, because in order to reach only the 2% next year, Mr. Khol, at least university professor, research expenditure in the enterprise sector would have to rise by half compared to the last few years. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Out of service! Without Gage!]] This is research policy, science policy based on the principle of hope, but it is not realistic. It is not in any way sufficient to ensure that this so-called research quota, which the Minister of Finance has raised, can and will be achieved next year. He did not in any way ensure that the entire federal government did not ensure that the business sector had increased its research expenditure accordingly. In dreary figures: Within a year, the business sector would have to invest at least 12 billion schilling more in research, spending more on research than it has done so far. And that's where I ask you: This is realistic research policy? I'm only going to meet you at your own goals, with all of us sharing the goal. Two years ago, I believe, a unanimous decision - I do not know if the liberals voted in favour - was given a decision by the Industrial Committee, which considered the corresponding increase in research expenditure as an objective. Reality does not match that. [[Abg. May. Trattner: 7 billion additional!]] The seven billion! I knew that number would fall once. The 7 billion schillings have been paid as a deposit this year. These are already included in our figures, whereby we have allowed ourselves to share the 7 billion schilling, which is planned for three years and not for a year, for the three years 2001, 2002 and 2003. In the numbers you have, these legendary 7 billion are inside, and yet – nevertheless! – results in this depressing image. We have not changed the figures, my colleagues and colleagues from ÖVP and FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We only use the official data of the Ministry of Finance. They didn't change anything. And finally, At the beginning of my remarks I heard the call "Wahlkampf" that election campaign was special in Vienna. [[Abg. Wenitsch: You don't notice that at your speech!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Well, it's election fight, isn't it? Is it illegal to address in a campaign the central questions to which FPÖ is devoted only cheerful laughter, namely, investment in the future, education, science and research? Do you think it's illegal to discuss this now? It is not the fault of the Greens that parents are desperate and angry. It is not the fault of the Greens that teachers are insecure and simply cannot provide information. It is not the fault of the Greens that at the universities of anger boils, from the students, from the students to the professors. – You have to answer that, you of the ÖVP and of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would strongly advise you: Go to the schools – to the compulsory schools and to others – go to the universities and talk to those concerned! Explorers On the spot, what the situation really looks like, and perhaps then we can talk about an educational offensive, a research offensive, a science offensive that really deserves this name. So far I have seen nothing of this in budget data, and unfortunately, I have to say, especially from the FPÖ, I have heard only laughter today. That's really sad, that's embarrassing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e3852	In order to give an opinion on the urgent request, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has come to speak. I can inform you: Under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time shall not exceed 20 minutes. After an agreement at the Presidential Conference, the speaking time of members of the government will not exceed 25 minutes in the next two hours. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e3882	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Education is a very important part of politics, and, Mr Van der Bellen, I think it is right that both in election times and in non-election periods about education are discussed, education offers are being questioned, education offers are at the heart of our discussion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At the last meeting of the Ministers for Education of the European Union, the issue was the following: What particular emphasis can the European Union set in the field of education? This will also be a very important point at the Stockholm General Council. I just mean, in the field of education, you should avoid everything that insecures people: Students are insecure, parents are insecure, teachers are insecure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I mean, you should read the budget properly, too. Of course, you can explain numerical material in some way, but we have 109 billion schilling for education. 109 billion schilling! This is as much as we have to pay interest on debt, and you will not want us to continue to owe ourselves, Mr Van der Bellen. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have listened very carefully to your speech, but I have not heard that you have also shown a single way in which to deal with the additional education. It is the responsibility of this government to deal with resources sparingly and rationally, to use taxpayers' money in such a way that we have the greatest, the best, even in the field of education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to point out to you, on the basis of an example, that the numerical material you provide is simply not exactly the same as the real trend. They said that the share of education in gross domestic product had declined. – But if we look at it more closely, we see that the entire budget for gross domestic product has declined, as we make fewer debts, because we are more economical, because we deal responsibly with the taxpayers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So, of course, it is also with the other figures mentioned in this request: They're always so tendent, so they're not exactly wrong, but they're not right either. Now I would like to come to the individual requests you have made: The first three applications relate to compulsory school teachers, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Van der Bellen, you have spoken about how terrible it is for no one to know what will be in the autumn. Especially in Vienna it is so terrible. In other federal states, it seems to be better – there is no campaign for election. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] You may not have read the letter from the City School Council, which told the schools that the necessary resources were allocated. You have also not read the promotional articles in the "Kurier" where there is a standing inside, which will be offered to the compulsory schools of Vienna. And I'll tell you: In Vienna there are currently about 100 000 pupils in compulsory education, and they will continue to be taught by 10,000 teachers in the future. That's a ratio 1: 10 – and that's what makes us Europe's top! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You've been talking about uncertainty. – Ladies and gentlemen! There is a great responsibility for all those who carry on uncertainty. I ask you: What should one think of it, what should parents like if, in an internet forum, on a homepage of the Austrian teacher initiative, which is usually counted among the Greens, since January a call is sent to all teachers to refuse work? [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Incredible!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It is recommended to teachers: Quit school events or school-related events, such as project weeks, sports weeks, language weeks, excursions, competitions, theatre visits, school performances. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: This is a scandal!]] It says: The suspension of orders for teaching materials by Coastods – which have a Custodiat for which they are paid, but they are to suspend it. It is recommended: targeted disease reports of the Pragmatized due to acute circulatory weakness when looking at the salary mark. [[Call the ÖVP: Awesome!]] I note that German teachers, to whom this is recommended, earn gross in gymnasiums, in secondary schools, between 24 000 S and 56 000 S – German teachers and teachers – and this is really an income for which one must not be ashamed in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It should still be noted that this income is of course without allowances from German teachers: Gymnasium, AHS. And it is recommended not to give any parent information, not to make an early warning system, not to hold parent talks. – Ladies and gentlemen! That is uncertainty, and those who allow it, promote and support it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Especially in compulsory schooling, all necessary measures will be taken, such as integration, additional promotion of children with non-German mother tongue, health schools, which are in the service post plans inside. But no one can really explain to me why, for example, up to now in Lower Austria, a teacher has come to a school 14.3 school, in Vienna 12.9 and in Burgenland 11.8. That's unfair! We want more justice, and that is why there will be common ratios. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To your request "The rapid expansion of IT workplaces in schools": We have most computers in Austria's schools throughout Europe. We have created additional offers: We will not have 20 000 graduates in the new technologies at our schools until 2003, but 30 000 graduates – we have provided! –, there will be three times as many graduates as previously from the colleges, from which universities will be trained in these fields. We set up the new Chairs – for computer science management, for the Computer Science Department – and half of the degree programmes approved this year offer this focus. We're making up the young people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Other points in your application are the removal of study fees, an extension of the reference group and an increase in study aid. That's what we've done! The number of subjects of study aid has been increased from 30 000 to 45 000. The study grants amounted to 1.5 billion schilling in 1999. You will have a budget of 2 billion in 2002. So we have already done all these increases and can say with good conscience: If you are able to study, if you are able to do so, you can study in Austria and get any financial support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the next points of your application, university reform, reform of service rights. Ladies and gentlemen! When we look at international developments, we see quite clearly that the development goes everywhere towards a modern, flexible service right, that the development goes everywhere towards independent universities with global budgeting. I really don't understand why the Greens, especially the young people who are now studying, want to take every opportunity to work academically once, because they demand that all posts be fixed. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Who's asking?]] This is not a future innovation! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: I'm not asking for this!]] That's no look at the future at all! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's exactly what the Greens don't want!]] We don't want a closed university teacher career! But we would like to make sure that we have the best minds in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We do not want to allow closed careers, but continuous careers, with quality evaluation. Everyone should have the chance to enter a new job at the university. However, this requires an accurate evaluation and determination of quality. This must ensure the new right to serve: Opportunities for young people so that they also want and can enter a scientific career. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Modern University means that more self-determination, more self-responsible in the context of target agreements, within the framework of a global budget, in the context of mandatory evaluation and quality assurance, as well as the creation of a datawarehouse, in which exactly what developments the universities are taking, as is the case with the personnel stand. For example, you, Professor Van der Bellen, mentioned by your university: You probably still know very well from your time that a third of these posts were not employed as early as 1993, because it is difficult to find professors with regard to modern technologies. Some jobs are already occupied. And you know very well that assistants were employed for this. This is because of the freedom of choice of universities, which we do not want to cut! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With regard to research, it is a fact that this government is the first government to provide 7 billion schilling for research, from the proceeds of privatisation. This is the way forward! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This federal government has set itself the first objective of rehabilitating the budget. Now there are important reforms and priorities. [[Call at the SPÖ:And the loads!]] We want to reform so that we can achieve this budget objective. At the same time, we want to focus on the proceeds of these efforts. One of these is the very important social and social focus on childcare money, in which we invest 9 billion Schilling more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The second very important priority is education, in which we invest 8 billion Schilling more. And the third priority is research into which we invest 7 billion Schilling more. Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group! This educational offensive takes place, even if it does not notice Professor Van der Bellen!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e4129	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for her opinion on the subject of the urgent request. We are now entering the debate. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, each group has an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. However, we have reached the following agreement: A first round of speakers provides a speaking time per group with a maximum of 10 minutes, and in a second round each speaker will have a speaking time of 6 minutes each. In this sense, Mr Brosz is speaking at a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e4179	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister for Education! During your speech, I thought: Here in the High House you can make this easy: There are representatives of the government parties who, from the beginning of this debate on the urgent request, have usually had nothing else to do with yelling in and not even listening to what is going on. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because it's so weak!]] Here in this hall you can talk about uncertainty that we, the Greens, the Opposition, supposedly practice, but outside, with the people, you will not succeed because they know what is happening! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Maybe you can remember a quote from yourself. You were asked by "NEWS" how the savings in education in schools will have an impact. You answered: "I don't know." – Literally quote! Now I ask you: If a minister of education is unable to say concrete questions about how the billions – for this is about billions of schilling – will have an impact on her area? I'll show you a few things. Look at this! [[The speaker keeps the copy of a newspaper article up to date.]] I didn't write that! It comes from the "Kurier": "Students are being rationalized." I can also tell you what this article says: In a Baden-based gymnasium – not Vienna, so no election campaign; next municipal council election only in 2004, I think, or even in 2005, we still have time – students are "wayrationalised". The point is that a gymnasium, where enough places would be available, where there would also be enough teachers, has rejected fifty students, on the grounds that there would be an arrangement of the country, so there should be "no more classes in the coming school year". According to the director, rooms and teachers are available, but unfortunately: We can't! Now I ask you: Are we insecure? Who's responsible? Is that the opposition, or are you with your policy? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Minister for Education! You have had the reputation in the previous government that education policy is worth something to you. At the beginning of this legislative period, you have still tried to act as a buffer. I just want to get some of your own quotes from the APA: 8. March 2000: There will be no cuts and no stop for teachers at schools and teachers at universities. – That was a year ago! ==References== May you have repeated: No savings plans for teachers. ==References== June: There will be no cuts in teachers' salaries. Then came this famous game with the Minister of Finance. I'll tell you: That's your failure in this federal government! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have had the education policy of Mr Westenthaler, Mr Schweitzer and Mr Grasser on the ground. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Take this back!]] You just allowed what's happening now, piece by piece. You can understand that very well. Two months later, it says at once: Gehrer says that structural measures will save a maximum of 2.8 to 3 billion schilling. – So all of a sudden it goes! First of all, you said that these savings would prevent you, and then it did. Grasser made pressure, you gave up piece by piece, unfortunately! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you talk to the people in schools when you look at the e-mails you were talking about earlier about uncertainty, then look at what specific measures are taking place! This is not about things that are not tangible, but about the following – and you can see it from a number of points of view –: One point is: The teachers themselves are massively saved. In addition to having to teach longer in classes, teachers will also have to take notice of significant salary losses. That's a clear savings measure. I therefore find it particularly cynical when Mr Schweitzer, who has already been mentioned several times – now he has gone out, well, as usual! – according to APA, the teachers had obtained a right of service that had numerous advantages. – Well, they’ll really lose you, they just need to look at their salary bills, they just need to look at how long they need to teach, they just need to look at how their framework conditions change, that the class students’ numbers will rise massively! And you're mocking the teachers from the government parties, you're deceiving them by saying: Great, thank you, you take note of all this! If there is then resistance – which can be seen in the individual points, measures that should be tried to prevent – then you, Mrs. Minister, no longer stand up and say that you are defending what teachers want, namely adequate teaching policy, adequate teaching at schools. They have now taken the step in the other direction: They represent teachers as they have always been represented by the other government party, the FPÖ. I would just like to remind you of the beautiful words of the head of state of Carinthia, who spoke of "parasitic elements" in the education system. As an educational minister, I would expect you to take a position on the fact that you are really opposed to this so that it is not possible. Meanwhile, the arm goes in arm, FPÖ/ÖVP, wonderful! You hang up the teachers' uncertainty instead of that you really stand here for high-quality education. That's the disappointment you caused. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And then you say we're not sure! Am I the State School Council of Lower Austria? - I don't think so. [[Call to the ÖVP: Thank God!]] Maybe you gave me a job without telling me. The State School Council of Lower Austria announces: Next year, there will be 100 classes that will be run throughout the year – for reasons of savings! Do you know what that means? – This is a measure that can certainly be considered in educational terms. In Vienna, there is already this in the form of cross-border schools, but there is a second teacher there, usually a second teacher, which ensures that the teaching can be useful. But what are you doing with your actions? – These second teachers will no longer exist. There will be third and fourth classes of education, which will be jointly taught, without appropriate framework conditions, without any additional measures. This is the quality of education that should be over from our point of view! In the case of small rural schools, the savings fund is set up. They always say: This is the country's business! – Look at what is contained in the School Education Act! I know, I looked at it, you'll know, too. It reads: If the necessary figures are lowered, the Council of State Schools decides whether these schools continue to exist or not. – Yes, but what should the Council of State Schools finance these schools when the money is gone? It is likely that only what is in place for distribution can be distributed. And you know exactly that you are actually provoking these measures. There's nothing left but that happens. To the additional offers at the schools – I can only express this in one picture –: When I talk to you or listen to your department heads from the ministry, who always occur at panel discussion events, I sometimes have the impression that there is a huge cheese bell above the minor square, through which nothing of what is happening in reality enters the ministry. They say: Everything is maintained, including non-binding exercises, integration lessons! – Yes, please look at it! Go to the schools, ask, look at what's happening! These famous non-binding exercises are no longer available in many areas. My prognosis is as follows: In a few years it will be a relic, a reminiscence to a past education policy, that there has been something like that one not only spoke of learning objects but also of other offers. All this is broken down piece by piece, and for that you bear the responsibility! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! They have repeatedly come to speak on the election campaign in education policy. There is a party that has truly disgraced the education policy into an election campaign, and you know where that party is sitting, that is, over there. [[the speaker points to the right side of the hall]] I remind you of the last elections in Vienna. There was a party who claimed on posters in brochures that students in Vienna were forced to learn foreign-language texts. That's from this side. [[The speaker points again to the right side of the hall.]] You know that. And I have once, after someone from this group has unwittingly watched with it, got this book and looked at what it really says. Do you know what it says? – In addition to a lot of other texts – "Your little children come" I have just opened up, you will probably like it – there are descriptions of holiday experiences in it: [[The speaker holds a booklet entitled "Lesefuchs 2".]] "Maxi and Izzedin" meet in Turkey. It is told what "Good morning" is in German and Turkish. – That was what you drew! These were the texts you mentioned on the sides of Turkish and Serbian texts. Now I ask you: Is this so terrible, if an Austrian child also knows what "Good morning" means in Turkish or Serbian? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! If you continue to do education policy with this group, you will have to expect our resistance in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e4316	Mr Gusenbauer spoke next. Talk time also 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e4380	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important that today the National Council is dealing with the central issue of our time in a special session, namely the safeguarding of the future. And the guarantee of the future of our society is education policy, which is why it has to be the central concern of society! Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What education system did you talk about when you presented your presentations or your perceptions today? Every day parents face shortcomings in our education system. Parents come to me pointing out that their children don't have a place in an HTL. Parents come to me to tell me that there are no places at the colleges. And I hear every day that the necessary resources for the training of IT workers and professionals are not available. These are the shortcomings that we should solve together, instead of pooling here in the House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But you, Mrs Minister, clearly have been impressed by the way in which education is being used to it by the Freedom Party! Mr. Alt-Parteiobmann Haider has sometimes considered teachers to be "parasitic elements", there has been a true Hatz on teachers – and of this kind of discussion are They obviously didn't leave them unimpressed. Mrs. Federal Minister, we would expect you to be the lawyer in education, but not a caretaker of education! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] To the number games you brought, we have to ask ourselves a central question: The Austrian society is becoming richer and richer in times of economic growth. Is this wealth of society guaranteed for the future, and is there more opportunities for individuals in the future? And the lever for general wealth as well as the lever for the opportunities of each individual is now in education! Therefore, a richer society should spend more on education and no less, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In principle, this concerns the entire range of education. Professor Van der Bellen has pointed out the importance of education in public schools and that what is missing there is no longer to be recovered. It would add that, of course, we need to take care not only of the HTLs and higher schools, but also – and especially in view of your statements about IT professionals – the vocational schools. Mrs. Minister, you are talking about the great initiative in this area: How do you explain that of more than 160 Austrian vocational schools, only 30 offer training for the so-called European computer driver's license, are basic qualifications, including in the application of IT? Especially here in the specialist work, it will be necessary to improve the skills and knowledge of the young Austrian skilled workers if we still want to be internationally competitive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] As much has already been said about the teachers today: I attach importance to the fact that our children receive the best training in a stress-free environment. I don't think it's a good contribution to put pressure on teachers every day by reducing the number of planning posts by putting them under physical pressure by threatening the contractual teachers, who are not only young, but also persons up to 40 years of age, quite massive pay cuts. Being a teacher is one of the most important services in our society, and I reject the fact that teachers in Austria are being put under such pressure, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You have Today's social-political credo presents: They have said that the introduction of childcare allowance and the zero deficit have absolute priority. We are of the opinion that: These priorities must not be sacrificed to the formation of our youth, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] For every infant who is over three years of age, the question arises at some point: What about the chances? What education do I get in folk school? What higher schools are available to me and what material conditions? And one thing is clear today: In the future, rich societies will only be those who provide the highest possible skills for most of their population. That will be the rich societies! Saving education today means saving on the future of our country and on the future of our children, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is, you are living in a conflict between your favorite election promises and what is really necessary for the future of our country. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: So what?]] And you solve this contradiction by increasing the pressure on teachers by limiting the educational opportunities for our children and by increasing the social barriers to access to universities. However, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a resolution of the contradiction within the meaning of the Austrian people, but rather a political government policy. Return to a policy for our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] At the first reading of the budget, we reached a consensus on the absolute priority of education policy. We have reached a consensus on the need for research and development to be at the centre. The opposition parties have assured you that what you have announced as lip confessions will also be put into reality. The budget figures have so far been the opposite. Today, Mrs Minister, you are pretending that your budget figures would be a fulfillment of the educational priorities. This is not only unbelievable, but it leaves the consensus we have reached here in the House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Education must not be a lip commitment, especially in this high house where there are a large number of academics, a large number of people who have acquired higher education in the past, because all the working people in this country with their taxpayers have enabled this higher education. It would be our common responsibility to grant the privilege that we all of course have taken, namely free access to higher education, also to the future generation, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, of course. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Bravorufe at SPÖ.]] That is why my final appeal, Mrs Bundesminister: You have a chance that the budget will go into a second reading, the educational budgets can be changed. Take care of your function! Become a lawyer for education and not a lawyer for the reduction of education!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e4506	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e4528	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It's election campaign – and it's about education. Is that legitimate?, Mr. Alexander Van der Bellen asked. – Yes, it is legitimate! But it is the question of how and how solidity is spoken about. I am of the opinion – with a view to my previous speaker –: Old-known ideological phrases do not bring us forward in this context! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I have not heard a single constructive proposal so far! – But back to the applicant Van der Bellen. I ask him as a university teacher: Is it a fair discussion, not a sound speech about education, to argue a certain virtue, that is, clean and fair? As part-time university teacher, I am still trying to stick to this point. The Minister has shown you that you are generously dealing with numbers – well. [[Abg. Brosz: (the written budget speech of the Minister of Finance) All figures from the budget!]] I would like to point out once again the example you mention in your request, namely the reduction of Professorships-Vakances at the Faculty of Economics of the University of Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] – Yes, you don’t say there’s been a breakdown, but the vacances have risen. If you research exactly, you will notice: Vacancies have been reduced from 12 open places to only eight, with a total increase in positions. [[Abg. Brosz: Super!]] [[Abg. Oils: Fine!]] Please, Professor, stick to the truth and argue solidly in the audience as well as here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It's election campaign, can we talk about education? . I mean, in a sense, looking over from this House to the Town Hall and reminding Mr. Mayor Häupl that he was the one who signed a pact with Minister of Finance Grasser, a contract for the re-regulation of the funds that flow through the financial compensation. [[Abg. Edler: Empressed!]] [[Abg. Edler: blackmail!]] The schools were a big package. Mayor Häupl said: We can afford to do that, it's manageable! and placed his signature below. And what's he doing now? – A self-scribing action against yourself! So I don't see solid argumentation in that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another example: The Vienna Financial City Councillor Rieder must, according to his own statements, jump in with a Vienna educational billion. – But when I look at exactly what he is spending on it, it becomes clear that there are loud areas that concern compulsory schooling, i.e. the national schools of Vienna. That's wonderful in itself, but I don't have anything. But he shouldn't link this to the federal budget! And he can spend a lot more in Vienna compared to other federal states. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We heard: 109 billion schilling for education! This is the highest level ever reached, and against the background of the objective of all debt limitation, the end of re-indebtedness. I think that none of the political groups who agreed at the beginning of this legislative period have been removed from this objective, but I have not heard any proposals from the critics until now. To make a request and simply to ask for more money, I can only say: Well, imagination, where are you? This is not really a creative offer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I believe that it should also be remembered that it was the school specialist Scholz, the city councillor of Vienna, who said – and with that I am particularly speaking in the direction of Mrs Van der Bellen, who is a teacher in Vienna – that sometimes the teachers must be protected from themselves and that there is a need to warn against panic. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I do not wish to quote Mr Scholz unjustly, but I believe that the fact that no precise information can be given in schools is due to the fact that the primary schools – and in fact the mayor and the head of state, Häupl, are in a position to do so – are lacking in this information input, as is so well said. [[Abg. Oillinger: This is the same in other federal states!]] Mr. Mayor! School your teachers! Tell me what you signed with the Minister of Finance! [[Abg. Oillinger: Look at the other federal states!]] I believe that the Greens and perhaps also the SPÖ are likely to escape, that we are on the right track in connection with universities. Throughout Europe, a university reform is being considered, and I have recently made the effort to go to all the major discussions on university reforms in the country I was invited to go to. I have also heard there that the University of Basel is understood in a reform process, that in the course of "New University Management" exactly those goals that the Austrian government has also written in the programme for Austria. If I look at some of the Preamble to a meeting of services adopted in Austria, I can only say: That's what I'm going to do. This government, this minister, is right with her programme. I quote the minutes of a meeting of services: Thus, a "performance-oriented, open and pluralist university structure is required, while preserving freedom for teaching and research". - Quote. [[Abg. Oellinger: Mrs Brinek! Think also of the students and students!]] And: Furthermore, the "advanced development to ensure and improve the quality" and the "view of the university's international competitiveness" is desired. Mrs. Federal Minister! I have to say, if I follow the services meetings: We are right with our program! Ladies and gentlemen! Planable careers with "Tenure Track", pre-evaluation, opportunities for cross-entry from industry and from other fields of science: These are all keywords from service meetings. I can say: ==References== There is an offer for dialogue on December 2000. I thank you at this point for the fact that some universities and some of the officials have benefited from this offer. In particular, I thank the assistant association of the Vienna University of Economics and also the University of Linz. They have taken this co-decision, this co-plan offer seriously and presented a better model in their opinion. The representatives of the ministry, for example, were extremely constructive in the context of a panel discussion and made the offer to bring the assistant spokesperson to the control and reform group immediately. This happened in an open event, so it was not planned, nothing turkted. So I imagine a good dialogue – not the way it has been practiced many times so far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! University reform is an essential concern, and to go into negotiations means to really keep behind the mountain at the time of the strike-threat negotiations. [[Abg. Edler: Your teachers... ÖAAB!]] We don't even have a government template yet, not even a precise punctuation – and yet some at the universities, some business meetings, are considering a strike measure. I am also a trade unionist and a staff representative, and I am sorry that the discussion should be promoted with substitute arguments. If I am properly informed, the negotiations will continue, and I hope that there will be no suspension measures of any kind. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Negotiating does not mean: We're making a lazy deal! – I hope I am not admonished for this expression! – by then talking about a few percent approach, but negotiating means returning to the beginning again means "argumentatio ad rem", i.e. getting to the point. If someone makes a better proposal, then he should be heard and integrated. In this sense, I sit down and support my group, and my colleagues are committed to ensuring that the argumentation continues to determine the reform process. I conclude at this point with a beautiful statement made by the high-ranking member of the university board, the renowned professor in Konstanz, Jürgen Mittelstraß, – I quote –: "Ideally typical universities should understand themselves as self-learning vital organisms and not as great immovable cathedrals and palaces." - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e4739	The next speaker is Mr Schweitzer. The clock will be set to 8 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e4760	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If I want to make the political discussion of the last few weeks happen again and describe the figure that Social Democrats and Greens have made in this discussion, then my judgment is as follows: helpless, unscrupulous, partly aggressive, but, above all, without any idea. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: On the matter!]] You have been trying to hold the internal debate for weeks, ladies and gentlemen, of the Social Democrats and the Greens. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Such a procedure has also been practised by you in the debate on the introduction of child benefit: A milestone in family and women's policy will be set by this federal government – under the free leadership – at last, all women, whatever you always wanted, will be treated equally, so that students, farmers and self-employed women can now benefit from the child's money, and yet these women have a lot of choices and benefits, but what do you think of it? [[ongoing calls to the SPÖ]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] - They're just saying: That's bad! We're against it! That's why you argue, because you didn't think so. They already draw the same picture over a long period of time, as they do today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Professor Van der Bellen! What you've offered here was pure helplessness, was really without your own ideas. I can't remember you making a single proposal. In addition, Mr Professor, you have argued extremely aggressively what I have never seen before. Very aggressive! You write in the explanatory statement on your urgent request: "At schools and universities, anger boils. The Federal Government is threatening phrases and staggering from an educational offensive." [[Abg. Riepl: That's right!]] This is your style, Professor! Professor Van der Bellen writes about the "Faseln" and the "phrase". Professor Van der Bellen further points out that the offer will fall, the hours will be shortened, the number of posts will be reduced, and all this at the expense of teachers and at the expense of the children. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's terrible!]] – To that end, Professor, let me tell you not to! Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer should listen carefully if I quote a Celebrity of Social Democratic Education Policy. This Celebrity wrote in February of this year – it negotiated with the Federal Government and came to this conclusion – that the continued existence of the well-equipped Vienna school system is guaranteed. And it also says in this letter: There is no reason why some parents are afraid that there will be an irreplaceable stop to the afternoon care, the integration of the disabled or the measures to promote foreign pedagogy. - I'll stay with good regards, Dr. Kurt Scholz. [[Oh, call to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe, Mr Gusenbauer, that Mr Scholz understands a little more of education policy than you do, and that is why I call him a witness to the good education policy being made by this Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] Professor Van der Bellen! Why Give You're here for spreading untruths? Is the reason for this ignorance, or do you consciously spread false information? We are grateful that you give us the opportunity to put the facts on the table. Under this federal government, the educational budget has been and will be expanded. [[Abg. Oil: Where?]] That was said several times! In 2002, Mr Oellinger, 8 billion y, i.e. more than 110 billion schilling or a seventh of the total budget, will be spent on education policy in our country – more than anywhere else in the world! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Professor Van der Bellen, your black painting insecures teachers, insecures students, insecures parents, and disapproves of any basis for it! [[New congratulations to the liberals and to representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact is, Professor Van der Bellen, that no one lesson is shortened. In addition, the "computer billions" in the field of information technology set a major new focus: on the one hand, for upgrading schools and on the other for teacher training. In 2001, there are 200 million Schilling more, even 300 million Schilling in 2002. Well, Professor Van der Bellen, to the fairy tale, teachers would earn less in the future. [[Abg. Brosz: Sure!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] This Federal Government has introduced the following performance-oriented components: Delegation for technical and engineering projects, payment of matura preparation, payment for participation in school events, payment of overtime even during participation in training events. Kustodiates and ordinations are now paid extra. – Professor, this concludes with the fairy tale that teachers will earn less in the future! Now go to the next fairy tale. – Our schools should not be competitive? Professor, let's look at the international comparison! Austria spends 6 percent of the gross domestic product on education and not, as you write, 2 percent. In total, it's 6 percent! The OECD section is 4.8 percent. [[Abg. Brosz: What year?]] Mr Brosz, it is the bad thing that one like you is doing education policy, then there is such untruths that are being spread there! Austria spends 66 percent more than the OECD average. – Germany spends 8 percent less, ladies and gentlemen. – Austria is 55 percent above the OECD average in the primary school, AHS and BHS sectors, and Germany is 15 percent below it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in view of this, are you talking about hunger of education in Austria?- Oh, my God! Professor Van der Bellen, you're like never before! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now to the fairy tale of the "overcrowded classes". Let's take the numbers from Vienna! In the primary school there is a teacher for eleven students, in the primary school a teacher for 7.8 students. [[Abg. Oils: Where?]] In Vienna a teacher comes to 1.75 pupils in the general special school. This is a relationship that seeks the same! There's nowhere in the world! [[Abg. Oillinger: Also in Vienna!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 1980 we had 1,19 million pupils in Austria, 93,000 of whom were teachers. Today we have fewer than 1 million pupils, 115 000 teachers. That is, the number of students dropped by 200 000 – and in the same period the number of teachers has increased by 20,000. Given that you're talking about savings, are you talking about a "educational emergency"?- Oh, my God! Mr Van der Bellen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. You're out of print, Professor! The seriosity is out of your mind! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You will not find these care conditions anywhere else in the world! I hope that with these facts I could fill up your knowledge gaps – I hope they are only knowledge gaps and that there was no evil intention behind them – Professor Van der Bellen. Despite the financial disaster that we have inherited from these rulers, this federal government has been able to give more money to education policy. [[towards SPÖ]] This federal government has been thinking about how to make this more innovative: for example, with the budget accompanying laws for the AHS and for the BHS teachers, and above all with the new Landeslehrer Service Law. This is a milestone in education policy! With this model, teachers can finally describe what they actually do. This has also been agreed with the teachers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger crosses middle and toe fingers in raised arms.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and of the Reds! Despite your antipropaganda, 75 percent of all teachers voted in favour of this new, innovative model. This shows that this federal government is on the right path that this education policy is excellent for the future, that exactly the opposite of what you say is the case! [[Abg. Oellinger: (middle and index finger crossing) So, colleague Schweitzer!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, because you are so concerned about the young teachers, I should like to make a request that will also create opportunities for young teachers and help to reduce another problem, namely information technology. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Approaches that are worthy of being pursued only come from the Federal Government, the Free and the ÖVP. Of you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the Greens, I miss every idea!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e5088	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e5113	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to say something about the statements made by two previous speakers, Mr Brosz and Mr Dr Gusenbauer. I have always tried to see education policy on a broad basis, to try to ensure that education policy is supported by as many people as possible, because I believe that we owe our young people the best for them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to reject what Mr Brosz said with all due respect. He's been talking about a "principle of teachers." [[Abg. Brosz: Exactly!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to let that happen, and no one can put it in question because we know what our teachers do every day! [[Abg. Brosz: Under what conditions?]] We know that teachers in elementary schools, in primary schools, in polytechnic schools, in special schools, in gymnasiums, in vocational schools are doing best work. I would like to thank them very much for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Sweamlein: (thumbs and pointing fingers rubbing) Every quality has its price as well!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to stress that we are putting pressure on teachers. What should that be if you give note from the schools of the children to the parents, what will you no longer do next year? [[Abg. Edler: ÖAAB teacher!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can't! We have to ensure that this is not done in our responsibilities, namely the Vice-Chairman Laska in Vienna, who is responsible for compulsory schooling. That's not a good way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Edler: ÖAAB teacher!]] [[Abg. Riepl: These are your party friends!]] [[Abg. Oils: Oh! Zensur!]] It has also been said of "free access to higher education". There comes again this old thought, this obsolete attitude, that everything and every one from the cradle to the Bahre must be free. – We cannot afford this permanently, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: When it comes to you!]] That's why I ask you: If we demand a moderate study contribution of 5 000 S for best performance at the universities of the students, do you know how much this is in the month? – That's in the month 833 S and 33 Groschen. That's in the day 27 S and 77 grossen. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] For best education you pay less in the day than a small beer costs. And that's probably worth the best education! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think that we should throw this old thinking overboard and that we must deal with the new challenges with new thinking.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e5306	Next speaker – please pay attention! – is Professor Grünewald. This round of speakers, which is now beginning, has a speaking time of 6 minutes per group speaker. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e5333	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor! High house! Mrs Gehrer, you have always wanted to say that there are no problems, there are only challenges. Two challenges were my predecessors: Mrs Brinek and Mr Schweitzer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It was spoken here of "aggression" and assumed that Mr. Van der Bellen could not read a budget and could not handle numbers. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I didn't say that!]] Mrs Brinek spoke of "Domen" and asked whether it was even legitimate for us to make this urgent request. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This was a statement by Jürgen Mittelstrass!]] Mrs. Brinek! The truth must always be legitimate. By the way, there is no place where you can compare dome with universities, and there is no place where Members are blessed. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I just quoted Jürgen Mittelstrass!]] You can certainly remember: True, obedience is the Christian’s duty! – but not party obedience, namely, that one prays down only what has always been prayed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm going to prove this with quotations now. Grasser said in the budget speech: The difficulties of the mountains lie behind us, and now the efforts of the plain come. – If I apply this Brecht quote to the science budget and to the educational budget, it sounds relatively flat and I wonder: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The plane is flat!]] How long do we need to go to the Gobi Desert? Again on the figures: You can turn it and turn it as you want: As measured by gross domestic product, as measured by the net income of the State, expenditure on the science sector has fallen! You say that all expenditure has fallen, but you have also said, Mrs Minister, that you are putting a priority, you are bringing a future aspect in this area. To that end, I say: Even the gross domestic product would have been more than what, as you yourself admit, the reduction will ultimately be. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If priority and budget changes are only to be measured with the scale of the letter, I simply can't recognize this aspect of the future. [[New condolences with the greens.]] What is fact? – The "technology billions" have been promised for many years. What's the further fact? – They were filleted to three years and three ministries. Even at the "Reform Dialogue" to which Chancellor Schüssel and the vice chancellor had invited, one of your experts or invited guests said that this was more than a drop on the hot stone, but by far too rudimentary to reach the 2.5 percent of gross domestic product. – That’s the truth! You made cuts a year ago at the universities and then you tried to make them even, so bet, and now you're selling it to us as "advanced". They sell us the transfer of the clinical extra burden back to the ministry, which in any case only serves the clinics, in turn as "increasing", which he is not. I also believe that cosmetic operations remain the domain of plastic surgery and should not be the domain of a finance minister, because it is a real satire or a magic trick in which the cylinder becomes bigger than the rabbit hidden in it. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Students and their parents were asked to cash out with 2 billion schillings, but you say: You'll get 500 million schilling return! – Calculations You're going to: They take off every single and every single 10 000 S, give him or her 2 500 S return and then say: This is our idea of social justice! - Not mine! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Students from developing countries are further comforted. Education and research have the highest priority in the headlines, perhaps in speeches and promises. The staff budget is suspended. That's where I ask you: How do they want to increase research by 2.5 percent? Do you research the computer tomographs, the photometers, the pipettes, or are it people who carry the research? I think it's people. A "reform dialogue" was proclaimed by you, but what we saw was in the better sense slides, and logos were almost no trace. The young people want to be promoted, but they are deprived of the prospects. Last but not least – to make counter-proposals in six minutes, Mrs Brinek, is now difficult: The universities should always be a place of debate and not the execution of vague and totally unscientific government documents in terms of research and education. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You divide the world into good and evil, your critics get evil letters, and quite razed evil letters. If that is the case, Minister Gehrer, then it is a problem, but for us it is a challenge!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e5460	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e5481	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, as a proud mother of a 5-year-old son, I had an exciting day: I went to school with my child and registered it for the folk school, and I naturally asked the question of what the children will do next year in this folk school. They gave me very serious information on this – these are not fairy tales, that is not an uncertainty propaganda! –: Unfortunately, I am not able to answer this question because of the savings measures. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you're talking about insecurity, I have to say, It actually takes place, but it does not happen through statements by critics and critics, but through information given in a very serious way to parents in schools when they ask what is offered to children next year. Mrs. Federal Minister! I've asked myself about the numbers – you're talking about the number of players taking place – and I'm calling you the numbers now, and these are numbers that you yourself announce: Next year, 3 700 teachers will be saved in Austria – and this, although your ministry, Mrs. Federal Minister, is estimated to be more than 7 000 students next year. 3 700 teachers less, 7 000 more students – there must be savings, the children must feel! I have also asked myself how these savings are to be made in schools. The answer is that – and you can't speak well – that afternoon care is at risk. You may not be so disturbed, it fits into the bundle of measures you set to make working women more difficult to live, but I wonder: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] How will a working woman be able to care for a school child in the future and at the same time be able to live up to her work? She needs the money because she has to live on something. Mrs. Federal Minister! They announce a foreign language offensive, but the savings measures will lead to savings in the service posts for native speakers. That is, the foreign language offensive is an air bubble, because there are no conditions for it. Next point – and I find this particularly characteristic of the calmness with which you put on the spasm – is: It will have to be considered in schools or in the school administrations whether special care should be taken for children in particular, such as whether the care for children who have to spend months in the hospital, such as children with cancer, will continue to be maintained to the necessary extent. This is particularly important for these children to maintain the connection to the teaching process, and for these children this is also particularly important so that they have a straw in which they can set up psychologically. I don't want to talk about the children of Germany's mother tongue and disabled children at all. In any case, these are all children who find particularly difficult situations in life and start-ups. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, accuse others of being insecure, and you say here in the current session, in front of the ongoing camera, that we can no longer afford in the education system that everything remains free of charge from the cradle to the Bahre. Mrs Bundesminister, what did you actually announce to us? Have you announced to us that the next step after the introduction of the tuition fees will be the introduction of school fees? Mrs. Federal Minister, we've been hearing about this for a long time. Because the situation in Vienna was addressed: On the one hand, the financial compensation has been put into the room: Either we agree, or it will be decided by the majority simply the hardest variant! and then, of course, we have been negotiating. For example, what happened for Vienna? – It was originally planned to save 1,400 posts. One has negotiated it, and now only more are going to be done in Vienna – still much too much! – 500 teachers are saved. If you, Mr Schweitzer, quote from the letter of the President of the City School Council, I would ask you to quote correctly, because the President of the City Schools Council writes: The City School Council for Vienna will take all organizational measures to implement the planned absence without profound restrictions on the quality of education. - Quote. And why? – Because the educational budget has been increased in Vienna, because the Vienna educational billion is intended to ensure that the children of Vienna are not to suffer under the spasm you will make. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Green Group's urgent request also addresses the non-social savings policy you are making, i.e. saving the weakest. In addition to the tuition fees, you have also decided on the taxation of accident pensions. I would therefore like to make a request concerning the abolition of the non-social taxation of accident pensions. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Col. Partik-Pablé,...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e5587	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e5602	Mrs Partik-Pablé! I am very excited whether you will now agree to this request. You have made such requests at the last meetings in the House...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e5635	The speaking time has expired! [[In the case of the SPÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. May. Kuntzl.]] The application just submitted is duly supported. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Belongs to the application on the matter!]] – Deputies! I have examined this and compared it with the request made in the course of the urgent request 10 days ago on the subject of "reduction of the taxation of accident pensions, reduction of the deterioration in unemployment insurance, withdrawal of study fees and reintroduction of free co-insurance". [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Which one?]] A motion for a resolution was then tabled to examine whether the pension reduction, which was paid for climate, corresponds to the legal ceiling. If this request has been accepted, I cannot reject the request which refers to the passus 7 in the explanatory remarks. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank you!]] That is why I note that the request is under negotiation. I call Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e5710	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In pedagogy, repetition is a very useful means, so I would like to take one or another repetition. Mrs. Federal Managing Director Kuntzl! The teacher you met when you went to elementary school with your child, and you asked what to expect in the next four years, and who told you: I can't tell you that! Thank God is not typical for the Austrian teachership. I can tell you that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Austrian teachers know very well what it is to be taught, how the curriculum looks, and you do so in an educationally excellent way. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They criticise what the Federal Government did not do in connection with the teachers' offices at the schools in Vienna. It doesn't help: There, too, repetition is a really sensible means. You have quoted the letter of Mr Scholz's President-in-Office yourself, but a paragraph under that paragraph which I may quote to you once again, since he has already been brought today. In a letter to all directors of the Vienna Schools, President Scholz writes: The continued existence of the well-equipped Vienna school system is guaranteed. There is currently no reason why some parents are afraid that there will be no stopover in the afternoon, the integration of the disabled or the measures for foreign education. - Quote. This is what the President-in-Office Scholz writes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I can also quote someone with whom you might have been able to make this up in the party presidency, namely the actual President of the Vienna City School Council, Mr. Mayor Häupl, who was in office on 17 November. In October 2000, 700 compulsory school teachers in Vienna found that there is less reduction in education. - That's what Dr. Michael Häupl said. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to talk about what Mr Van der Bellen has announced to us today. Professor Van der Bellen, you teach economics at the University of Economics – now perhaps not anymore – and you explain to students the legality of decreasing border use. This means, for example, that: If you go out after the parliamentary debate and smoke your first cigarette, then it has a special benefit to you, a special pleasure; the third or the fourth cigarette, of course, has by far no longer that subjective benefit for you like the first cigarette. This would mean that the first 10 billion schilling invested in education, in the education system, would have exactly the same benefits as the last 10 billion schilling we invest in the education system. And that's wrong! Although we have the highest educational budget in this year, regardless of whether it concerns schools or universities, which we have ever had in the history of Austria, a higher budget is not automatically linked to a higher quality of education. But you're trying to make us know all the time, but that's wrong. You teach the exact opposite of it at the university! It is about the efficient use of the input! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In one of your requests, you are talking about reducing the maximum number of students. I've already told you this before, and I'd like to do it again. In the AHS, you require a reduction in the number of students to 25. From 1994 to today, the average number of students in the AHS was never more than 25 years old. I know, of course, that this is not the case in all classes, but if you look at the absolute numbers and know that in Austria – all school types combined – we have 41 500 school classes and have less than 25 students in 33 700 classes, then you will probably see that this issue is not really the most pressing issue of Austrian education policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have a clear focus in Austrian policy: This is the investment in education and research, and that is the investment for our children. That is why we have introduced this child allowance, which also benefits the students. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They say we're shortening non-binding exercises. – Also a number: In the school years 1995 and 1996, AHS 1 009 had non-binding exercises, and in the last school year there were 1,311, which corresponds to an increase of 30 percent. That's how the "cuts" of the Federal Government look! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you look at the development in the numbers of pupils and teachers, for example, in the field of compulsory schools, then you will see that the number of students remains constant, while the number of teachers has increased by the last year. [[The speaker holds a poster in the height]] – This is what the "reductions" look like in the field of education! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I recommend the opposition, especially the Greens, to: Finally, make proposals, not just make politics ready! If you bring proposals that are constructive...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e5833	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e5849	Thank you, Mr President. – If you bring action that makes sense, then we can seriously deal with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e5879	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke. Speech time: Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e5900	Ladies and gentlemen! Before Mrs Kuntzl was able to bring her half-truths or untruths back, the President of the Council deprived her of the floor for overcoming time. I would therefore like to clarify the following: The SPÖ has a very serious campaign against me, claiming that I would argue differently outside and vote differently in Parliament. [[Go! Call at the SPÖ]] [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edler: Accident pensions!]] – Thank you for the applause, obviously to my person at all. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In fact, it is true that I said that the accident pension tax in cases of hardness from 1st century onwards. I can give you my press release. We have here in Parliament a joint motion for a resolution, which I naturally approved. There is no reason at all for me to agree to a SPÖ request if we have tabled a request together. Please take note of this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Your cheap polemics can be really easily seen. Please note: I am in Parliament, and I am not here to withdraw the taxation of accident pensions, except in cases of hardship. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about education today. – Why yell You're like that? [[Abg. Swimming: 'Cause you're yelling!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You must distract from the climate!]] – Oh so, you want to distract from the climate with its removal of 27 million schilling! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is today about education, and education also has something to do with example. I was actually expecting a greener, Mr Pirklhuber, to go to the speaker's desk as an allerster in this educational debate, apologizing for saying that the "Sweinestalt Österreich" was missing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Pirklhuber! You'd have the opportunity to apologize. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Come out! Excuse me! Come on. You're out! Now would be a nice occasion for this. [[Abg. Swimmling: Try it with your head – and not with your stomach!]] But Austria, and then to do as if nothing bad had been said, is certainly not right. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As this red-dominated federal government in front of a... – Well, you cannot deny your coalition partner. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] When this red and black federal government was elected a year ago and left under socialist finance minister Edlinger a huge debt mountain, it was not the only problem that you, Mr Edlinger, left behind, but you left behind many other problems. [[Call the SPÖ: How much pension do you have?]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's wrong! Now there are debts like never before!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Edlinger) Pleiteminister!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] For example, socialist education policy has left 300 000 functional illiterates behind. She has left behind a professional group, namely the teachers, who suffer the greatest burn-out syndrome of all professional groups, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: ( towards SPÖ) Congratulations!]] In Vienna, such a short-sighted housing and settlement policy has been made that 100,000 people have been settled on the outskirts of the city without providing the appropriate schools. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Edlinger) A finance minister who has always missed in mathematics!]] There are areas in Vienna where there is simply no AHS, because you have planned short-sightedly. Children often have to travel 30 kilometers to an AHS. This is the "future planning" in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen! You have to keep that in mind once! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaál: federal affairs!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, we have a very expensive education system, on the other hand, we have very large deficits. But this federal government is confessing itself – at last that happens! – to an educational economy, so that what is actually happening in this field of education is clarified, so that it is discussed what way we are actually going and what it looks like with the equation: More teachers are automatically called better education! This Federal Government wants to ensure that there is a better education system and a better education system. And in the education system, because of the limited resources that are very simple to exist, we need to think about how we can improve it in its efficiency. And this is really a very good approach. You should be involved by the Socialists and you of the Greens in order to increase this efficiency in education. But what you do is to be insecure. This has been blamed on you several times today. They have nothing else but to insure parents before the election campaign, to insure teachers, and the result should be to get as many voters as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] But you've seen you won't succeed. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Talk time!]] A professional, i.e. city council president Scholz, has...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e6158	Please put to the end, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e6173	Town Council President Scholz himself said that nothing would change in the education system. Mr. Mayor Häupl himself said,...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e6209	I have made strict compliance with the speaking time with Mr Kuntzl. That's true now too! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I only say one half sentence: the Lord Mayor...!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Goodbye!]] [[I should like to congratulate the liberals and the ÖVP for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. I'll tell the House: We have agreed that no political group will receive more than once the floor for an actual correction in this debate. I would ask you to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e6258	Mr President. High house! Mrs Partik-Pablé has stated here that she has been committed to abolishing the accident pension tax only in severe cases. [[Abg. Swimming: It was weak, terriblely weak!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not an actual correction!]] I quote an APA broadcast. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A false fact sheet!]] "A remarkable demand was made by the top candidate of the FPÖ..., Helene Partik-Pablé...: If the Federal Government is already considering reversing the accident pension tax in cases of hardship, the abolition of taxation should be retroactively with 1. The decision was taken in January 2001.' - Quote. Mrs Partik-Pablé! In contrast to what you have said here, you have certainly expressed your support for the comprehensive abolition of the taxation of accident pensions. This can be seen in an APA notification.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e6323	Mr Edlinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Then comes a personal response, which is permitted on the basis of the wording of the actual correction of Mr Ollinger. Please, Mr Edlinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e6355	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Partik-Pablé said here a few minutes ago that I had left behind the highest debt that has ever occurred in the history of our country. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it!]] - That's wrong! Rather, it is true that Minister Grasser's debt is 80 billion over the one I left behind. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] 1623 and 1706 are higher. I think that's mathematics. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger keeps a calculator up.]] – This is the calculator that corresponds to your intellect! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: You should learn more!]] However, I still have a second actual correction. Ms. Dr. Partik-Pablé has just said that children on the outskirts of the city have to drive 30 kilometers to the next AHS. – I would like to point out that there is at least one AHS in each district in Vienna, and there is no district that is 30 kilometres long in diameter. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: More mathematics for Edlinger!]] Unfortunately, as the top candidate of Vienna, you do not know, Mrs. Partik-Pablé!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e6439	Mrs Partik-Pablé spoke on a personal reply to Mr Oellinger's actual correction. I would ask you to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e6463	Mr Oellinger spoke to me personally. That is why I am replying to his claim that I would have been in favour of the retroactive lifting of the accident tax, that, according to my press service, I have said that the abolition of taxation retroactively with 1. The decision was to be taken by January: in cases of hardship – that is clearly the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] This is my original press release, which is indeed the most important one, Mr Oillinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e6499	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. The remaining speaking time from the government bank is 8 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e6535	Mr President. High house! I think I have to correct what Mrs Kuntzl has said here. The example you brought here corresponded to a new uncertainty. There was no one talking about introducing any school money somewhere. There is no discussion about this, and I ask you not to carry this uncertainty back into the population! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also have to say something about Mr Edlinger's comments. As a former finance minister, he would actually have to know that debt in this order is rising, rising and rising by itself. What we do is: We're not making new debts and trying to break down the old ones. [[Abg. Edlinger: You can't make old debts!]] Nevertheless, your debts are still rising. That's the difficulty we're standing before! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman. - Abg. Edler holds a poster with the title "Gehrmöchte Debten!" to the height.]] Today, Mr. Mayor Häupl said in a broadcast: Vienna was not starved at the financial compensation! [[Abg. Edellinger: 31 million a day!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pleiteminister Edlinger!]] That is to say, Mr Mayor Häupl, the President of the Council of State Schools, has agreed to the financial compensation. He agreed that new proportions should be achieved in the compulsory school teacher field. He agreed that this reasonable measure would also be taken as a fair measure between the federal states. I have held several talks with Mrs. Vice-Chairman Laska, who is responsible for the classification of compulsory school teachers. We have clearly noted that the ratio of 100 000 students to 10,000 teachers is still good, that all offers can be made, but that you can no longer put four teachers in one class. You can't do that anymore! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to clarify something else that you have mentioned here, Mrs Kuntzl. [[Abg. Grabner: I don't know, Mrs. Minister!]] It has been discussed with Mrs. Vice-Chairman Laska that we take special account of the health schools. Maybe she didn't tell you. We will take them into account. But the other areas are the same in all the federal states. That is why it is also fair to have the same ratios in all the federal states. We will be very careful in the field of compulsory school teachers to ensure that the countries make the right allocations in their competence. In the future, three pupils with special educational needs will fall on a teacher. I'll tell you something. In the care of disabled children, we are top in Europe. Everything goes out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] There's integration going on, there's every special school class going out, everything goes out. And I think we have to see that in this regard too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also very important to me to note that it is a particular concern to me and everyone in the government to calm down in the teacher sector and to make it clear that the resources available for the gymnasias do not get away from the resources available for the HTLs. Resources are allocated to schools per student. It may be that the teacher, because he no longer has the discount for the class board, is in the class for an hour, but there is nothing left out of resources for the students in our gymnasiums, in our vocational schools. And that's important! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This government has therefore taken very important steps: important steps in rehabilitating, important steps in reforming, important steps in the focus. A milestone also for students, even for students, is the new childcare allowance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Imagine that child care is now paid more for a whole year! Imagine, by increasing the family allowance of 100 S per month, a student will receive more family allowance in the course of his life 26 400 S! [[Abg. Edlinger: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: The karenz money is taken away!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pleiteminister Edlinger does not understand!]] I believe that this is an essential step forward that benefits our families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The increase in family allowances, this childcare allowance, is a very important contribution to social warmth in our society, to the support of those who need it. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Everyone needs it! Everyone needs it! With this government – clearly!]] There has been so much uncertainty here. Mr Edlinger! Students need it, farmers need it, single parents need it, mothers with three and four children need it. [[Abg. Edlinger: Everyone needs it!]] We give it to those who need it, and we like to do so, very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In my first contribution to the debate, I referred to the insecurity of the Internet, which is being passed on to teachers, to parents. Ladies and gentlemen from the Green Group: I have not heard from you any clear distance from these calls. There's a call. No consultation time for students!, there is called: Boykott the early warning! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Unheard of!]] Do you really want to, on the back of the students who call teachers to the boycott?- Oh, my God! . I expect, ladies and gentlemen, from the Green Group, a clear distance from these calls for uncertainty.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e6765	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e6786	I thank you for this advance applause of the government parties. – Mrs Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor! Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister, you fear uncertainty by the opposition parties. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Distance yourself!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I trusted you so firmly when you said: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Excuse me!]] I'm at tuition fees! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where's the excuse?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Excuse me!]] I thought that this Federal Minister would never give up this position. [[Abg. Auer: Excuse me!]] I have to say I was very insecure by you and your crasher. I hope and wish that the Austrian schools, the students and their parents will not be the same as I do with your faller at the tuition fees. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where's the excuse?]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You have made a comparison which I do not think is very appropriate in view of this debate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The excuse is still missing!]] If you're talking about these tuition fees being as much as a little beer a day, I think you're bringing a lot of trouble into this debate, because you know – you get the same addresses and e-mails as we do – that a lot of Austrian families and young people are getting a good education and that this means a lot of hard victims. Therefore, the comparison with a small beer is not worthy of yours! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Brinek asked for scientific honesty in her statement. - Well, I mean: Yes, we are the population, and that is what I believe we are guilty of ourselves. But, Mrs Brinek, if the staff is frozen in the schools – and we know that there is God in this country thanks to wage adjustments, salary adjustments – and if we assume that existing service contracts do not intervene, then there is a very logical bill: Either the salaries of the individual persons – the teachers – need to be reduced, or the total staff must be reduced. That's not the way it is! [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] And I am actually looking for this scientific honesty that concerns the students, the teachers! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Early retirement model!]] Mrs Brinek! The figures also speak a clear language. Mr Amon has stated that we have a continuous increase in staff, but there seems to be again a very wrong statistics – but again the name Grasser points out – because here is about the staff position regarding the national teachers: [[the speaker is paged in budget documents]] 1993: 76 894, 2002: 73 765. – So, Mrs Brinek, please be more honest in the debate! That's a reduction! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek goes to the speaker's desk and the speaker stops the graphics, the abg. Amon during his speech.]] - That's a reduction! Ladies and gentlemen! It was always said that the opposition had remained guilty of alternatives. - Well, I'll ask you again: Read our request! In this is the talk of an intensification of education, of a reduction in the number of class students, there is the talk of more integration, and a deepening of language teaching is required – also in the mother tongue of children with non-German mother tongue. Therein is actually a perfect educational offensive. So where, ladies and gentlemen, are you missing the alternatives? The Greens have presented alternatives for the area of school and for the area of individuals, the people in this country – with their basic security. These concepts are feasible, can be implemented – only: They don't want to discuss them, and we're sorry about that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One last: I can't speak from the point of view of a teacher, but from the point of view of a mother of school-based children. And what is always said to me by the government bank – it will become more and more of everything – I really can't confirm that at the best of will! There is now no more science book for my daughter and no German book for my daughter – a normal public school, a very good school in Vienna XII. It's not there. The parents copy any paperwork, and the children walk around with loose leaf collections. The preschool education was severely restricted, and it was important: especially for children from financially weak families and for migrants families. – All this is not there anymore, that's gone! And my bigger daughter – she goes to a normal public middle school in Vienna XV – went on school school yesterday, but in six classes there were not even two teachers each class who are allowed to ride along – and this, although children with chronic diseases are included: Diabetics, asthmatics. And I understand some calls, because as a caregiver I would simply not be able to take on this excessive responsibility in such a small number of caretakers. One last thing, and that concerns the situation of women. You know the debate at the WU, you know the share of professors in universities: not even 5 percent. – If we continue at this pace or even – what you seem to be planning – we still need 200 years to achieve equality. This freezing of staff costs, of course, leads to the disproportionate nature of women entrusted with temporary service contracts, with representation contracts. For this reason too, we strongly reject this false savings package in the field of education!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e6968	Mr Oellinger spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e6989	Mr President. We really enjoyed the fact that the Federal Chancellor took part in the debate, but we actually expected him to participate in the whole debate and not only when television broadcasts. I therefore propose the German Chancellor's presence because this debate on education policy is really important.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7037	For business treatment: Mrs Achatz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7058	Mr President. The Federal Chancellor was present for a long time, while part of the debate continued, and I believe that it is perfectly in line with the Rules of Procedure if the Minister of State continues to be present during the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7095	Ladies and gentlemen! I changed a few words with the Chancellor at the moment I entered the hall to replace Mr Fischer. I took his statement that he intended to come back later. I cannot say what he is doing in the meantime, I can only say that he is spending a lot of time here in principle and that every member of the government is also allowed to be outside for a few minutes – apart from the fact that, of course, he also has the right to remove himself because he knows a request or request from the competent member of the government. Mr Spindelegger. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on this point of business. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7130	Mr President. High house! This urgent request from the Green Group is addressed to Mrs Gehrer, Minister of State, and she has been present throughout this debate. I believe that we should not allow it to come to terms with fundamental considerations, either, that if another member of the government takes part in this debate, we should immediately undertake to be here all the time. I believe that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the principle must be that the member of the government concerned must be present on the Government Bank and that no other must now be recovered immediately by means of applications. From the point of view of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, this proposal only serves to stop the debate and we reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7169	Ladies and gentlemen! There is a request to us, which I, as chairman, assume is possible from the Rules of Procedure, but I do not think it corresponds to the Usus – and I say clearly that it does not correspond to the Usus – that a non-competent member of the government should be created five minutes after it has left the Chamber of Meeting, and although I tell you that it has made a statement from which I can conclude that it is intended to return. I would like to vote on the request if you wish, but I am very conscious of the question whether we are not using the use of the House in a way that gives the impression that it is sometimes created here as a member of the Federal Government. [[Yes-Ruff with the Greens and the SPÖ]] – I ask the question! [[Lively calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For business treatment: Please, Mr Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7218	Mr President. I would like to answer the question. The Rules of Procedure state that, as President of this House, you have to put business-regulatory requests to the vote without delay and that it is also the House's matter to decide whether a member of the Federal Government is present or not. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Business treatment!]] I recognize in Your approach only makes one sense: to talk until your group and the FPÖ Group are sufficiently represented in the hall. Mr President. I would also like to draw your attention to the following: If you now give the floor to Mr Khol, you will go against the use of this House once again, because it is agreed that only one can speak of any group, and you obviously want to favour your group.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7265	Mr Kostelka! With all the knowledge and expertise I grant you: The intention of reading thoughts, I note with you for the first time, I have to say that clearly. [[General hustle and bustle.]] Secondly, I would like to say: There is an agreement in the President that so much time is being used that it is not a vote on the second, but it should be a process in which, of course, Members have the opportunity to finish short breaks accordingly in order to be back in time. As you obviously maintain the request, I would like to vote on it. I therefore come to the vote on the request by Mr Oellinger with the request to call back Mr Bundeskanzler to the meeting room. Whoever is in favour of this request, I am looking for a sign. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Unfortunately the minority!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Lost again! Lost all day, and now the vote is lost! The SPÖ has no strategy!]] We are continuing the debate. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7343	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! A personal comment to you, Mr President: Actually, you shouldn't need to filibuster yourself. If the club is unable to bring the people back, that's his fault and then the two clubmen have to take care of it. But that you're here to take over this role, it's a little amazement to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Westenthaler has only gotten a little in trouble once today. This was with regard to Mrs Partik-Pablé – who is now no longer here, probably because the Vienna election campaign is taking place – who should have been forced to say this and vote in a vote, as she actually thinks. [[Abg. Vienna:... Can't you remember?]] You were worried whether this request could be accepted at all, Mr Westenthaler. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That would have been unpleasant to you if your top candidate had to confess color here, as this government at all is unpleasant if she had to confess color! This is the trademark of this government: that it takes the money out of the hands of the people and does not even want to take responsibility for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What are you saying? – They say: Yes, Mr Häupl has also agreed. And the teachers also agree! – It’s just missing that you say the teachers would have wanted to be less. That would be the next step. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: 13 percent fewer students!]] The mayor of Vienna, like other heads of state under the dictatorship, has decided otherwise, without his consent in Parliament, by a majority, to sign under the financial compensation. And you know exactly that the city of Vienna, under social democratic leadership, is doing everything to mitigate the hardships that bring about this financial compensation and this government dictatorship for education. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: And that's why you made the Bank-Austria Foundation because you're "doing everything"?- Oh, my God!]] The Federal Minister is wondering why people do not accept these reforms and why Mrs Kuntzl asked here at the speaker's desk: Now, for example, is there still a reward for visiting school?, after you, Mrs. Minister, have explained that it costs something and we should get used to thinking that everything should be free from kindergarten to adult education. That's the wrong thing, that's the old philosophy, that's what you said here, Mrs. Federal Minister! If we then ask ourselves the question when the schools are in place, and if you point out that you have completely decided to exclude it, then I would remind you, Mrs Minister – and I am sorry that Mr Bundeskanzler, who has also excluded the tuition fees, is no longer sitting here – that You also excluded the study fees once decreed – and then they came! This is the problem you have in all these reform discussions: People have the impression that you say something different than you do! – That is why this reform discussion does not continue and why there is great scepticism here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If a university is then, we are looking at it closely now and we would like to ask the members about the law of the service, then you call this approach unworthy of a democracy, a university! What does Professor Call tell you – is there not an old-time linker or a professional protester, but a chairman of the Service Committee in Innsbruck, that is, really a conservative in his political attitude? He writes on Saturday: "This choice of words fires the Federal Minister as extremely deplorable." – That’s what your party friend says about how you deal with the universities! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] You should start to think, instead of continuing to claim that we are invigorating universities and schools – as if they were not able to analyze themselves and find that teachers are being saved, that the budget in science and research is de facto not increased, that the investments you cancelled two years ago are not picked up, that some 7 000 to 8 000 places are missing from the colleges and that about 5 000 places are missing for students in the higher education schools! What do you say to these young people and these kids in the autumn? Where are they going? – They tell them what nothing costs is worth nothing. And the crown sets up this statement by the Finance Ministers in an interview to be read in the ÖH newspaper "Scope": Ten thousand s a year are quite ridiculous. - Quote. This is the attitude of this government when people are struggling not only to spend 5 000 s per semester for two, three children, but 15 000 s, if they are going to have difficulty paying travel costs in the autumn, if they are hard to put up with all the materials needed for a student. And they're paying for it now, Mrs. Federal Minister! – You yourself said: We have also reduced the overall budget, so it is also clear that the proportion of research and science is falling somewhat. – Yes, and that is my final conclusion: People have never received as few benefits from the state as they do now, but they have never paid as much for this state as they do now! We have the highest tax and tax rate in our history! This is the balance sheet of this government after 13 months!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7466	Mr Bruckmann is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7487	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. High house! Aunt Jolesch should have said before a election, perhaps it was a Vienna municipal council election, once: I wish every party the highest possible gain. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] - You're not the Aunt Jolesch either! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: No, really not!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Obviously, the opposition parties pay tribute to this principle as far as the budget is concerned. If one makes the speeches of the last months happen, one sees that all statements by opposition speakers are exhausted in the demand that every approach in each budget should be much higher than in the budget – these are the only constructive proposals that we have heard so far – except in the defence of the state, because our security obviously needs nothing to be worth us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! In principle, there are two types of policy: the one that leaves everything unchanged, only to no end, and therefore carries out a budget policy in accordance with the principle of foundry: All in all, a few droplets more!, and a different kind of policy, the one that sets out determined structural measures, but in which case the budget approaches (a) must be shifted between the resorts and (b) within the resorts. In this respect, the behaviour of the opposition parties is a very transparent one. With regard to all the reduced budget items or the same budget items, there is a great cry, because each budget item should be significantly increased. But with regard to the positive aspects of accent shifts, there is either a muttering or the demand that this is by far not enough. This applies in particular to child care benefits – a very essential change in our future for the benefit of the socially weak in our country. If Mr Gusenbauer, whom I am now no longer seeing in the hall – apparently he is also interested in the further debate after the television has turned off – has stressed that what has been missed in the public school is no longer reversible later in life, then I would even like to take a step further. High house! What was missed in the first three years of life is no longer to be recovered in later life! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this respect, childcare is a very important step not only towards a constructive social policy, but also a constructive education policy. The urgent request, which is based on our special meeting today, is as if Austria were threatened by a relapse in illiteracy. In most of the nine points – I have them here in front of me – only exactly what is planned or what is anyway the case is required. For example, I'm trying to get out: Point 2: Improving the integration of disabled people in compulsory education and so on. - High house! Austria is at the top of Europe and within five years the figures have been doubled. – Point 4: Rapid expansion of IT workplaces in schools, universities and colleges. – Just as this is the case, the Federal Minister has already referred. Point 5: Replacement-free removal of tuition fees. . I am pleased that Mrs Kuntzl is still here, which I can now answer to what you have replied to me. She had been very reticent about what I would like to acknowledge, pointing out that it would not be a miracle if Gerhart Bruckmann's son were for tuition fees, because "the dad will judge it." I repeat what my son told me. He said: I do not understand that the entire cost of the university business I benefit from is to be paid out of taxpayers of the working population. I encounter a truly strange interpretation of social-democratic ideology, because apparently you are from the SPÖ for a total redistribution from the workers to education citizenship, even in all those cases in which the father can judge it very well! I'm not coming all the way with it anymore. High house! The path now provided by the Federal Government and by Mrs. Gehrer is much more just, namely from autumn onwards, to demand a small contribution to the cost of the study operation of those who benefit from the study personally, but this of course compensates for this by a scholarship system which has been developed against today. This means that a contribution can be requested wherever the father can judge and the son is not in need. I see that my little lamb is not yet lit, so I can add one more thought. Point 8 is particularly treacherous for me, who at the time I participated in the founding phase of the Klagenfurt University, when the first wave of the 68s was looking for care posts there. The main interest of this group was to be made unannounced as quickly as possible. This was not only true of Klagenfurt, but it was also the aim in the entire other university area since the first university reform. The result is that many institutes, even in subjects with declining number of listeners, are clumsy today with definitely middle builders who no longer need to exert themselves, because they are already unannounced, so that still so brilliant younger young people do not have a chance for a scientific career for decades to come. - High house! In this point 8, this anti-performance way of thinking of the Alt-68s shines through. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Oils.]] High house! I'll get you together. This government has ended the further sausages and the foundry policy. It sets priorities, it makes policy, and it will not be removed from this policy by so many more urgent proposals of this kind!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7577	The next speaker is Mrs Papházy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7598	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is good that this special session is taking place today, and it is good that the special session will provide the necessary clarity before the budgetary negotiations. Investing in knowledge pays the best interest, says an old saying, and precisely because of this, the government coalition invests more in education, more in science and research. Our educational speaker Mag. Karl Schweitzer has already pointed this out, as has the Federal Minister. The opposition shocks the fears of parents and children in order to distract them from the failure of social democratic science policy and education policy. The fact that this was neither social nor successful at the university has noticed this in its take-up. Two keywords: 50 percent dropouts and 43 percent no single examination in the last study year. The government immediately responded to these abuses. The universities will have to compete as part of their jurisdiction, private associations and colleges will compete directly with the universities, and the study fees will benefit universities directly. Study fees are socially fair, we have heard from the Federal Minister on the example of "small beer": less than the price for a small Daily beer, less than the cost of a kindergarten for the equivalent of a highly qualified training. The actual cost per year is 120 000 S to 240 000 S depending on your studies, and it would not be socially fair to ask students not to make contributions but to stop apprentices for co-financing. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has taken care of it. The tuition fees are disbursed socially, the study grants are improved and the award limits are re-regulated. It is ensured that anyone who wants to study will be able to study in the future. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] This government creates the framework conditions for this, and this government also creates additional offers to meet the modern labour market requirements, keyword: IT training, keyword: University of Applied Sciences. In 2005, a third of the students will start their studies at colleges. The Social Democrats have always given very nice Sunday speeches in the field of education, but in fact they have not acted socially. It was in social terms, for example, to hand over the debt of 2,200 billion schilling to young people, but it was in social terms to give students free travel, but then to take them away again in the winter semester of 1996/1997. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: They're gonna get rid of them!]] Mrs. Dr. Helene Partik-Pabléhat pointed out, and to my great pleasure she was very much supported by a student group, namely by the social democratic students. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In my opinion, it is inconceivable that red and green fight for the Pragmatization of university teachers, thus building up young ambitious university graduates the opportunity for a scientific career. It is also inconceivable that these university teachers want to fight against their students, against their young scientists, against an unknown right of service, against a right of service, which should only be in force temporarily until complete autonomy. In these days, the government coalition has also fulfilled FPÖ requirements. Childcare money is becoming reality. Especially for students, social justice brings. Students will no longer get into poverty traps, but can also study with children. And Landespartierobmann Dr. Hans Achatz has today submitted an application to the Upper Austrian Government for an educational check for all, socially staged, 60 000 S for all under 30-year-olds, regardless of the qualification, regardless of the training. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is socially just for me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This government creates the framework conditions for each Austrian, each Austrian, to receive education that corresponds to the talents and wishes. The aim of the government is to hand over to children and young people a rehabilitated Austria full of opportunities for the future. This Federal Government under Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselund Vice Chancellor Dr. Susanne Riess-Passer will achieve this goal for the benefit of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7686	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7707	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! At the end of a debate, it is somehow difficult to try to replicate the arguments of the government parties, especially when these arguments have proved to be creeds. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen! They really believe that no less is spent on education. There is nothing to be done if we present the facts to you. There is nothing to be done if we present to you how it actually goes to schools. You just think that's not the way it is. This is nice for you – but it has nothing to do with reality. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is pure refusal, ladies and gentlemen, a refusal that you always accuse the opposition parties. Yes, I admit, we want to do more for education, and that is what we are saying now and today, but we have said that two or three years ago. What do you have to object to, ladies and gentlemen, that the maximum number of students is reduced to an educational and didactically meaningful level? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Of course, there are not 36 students in all classes, Mrs. Brinek, but there are such classes, and there are even classes in the field of HTLs, the HAKs, where one has gone beyond these 36, above the maximum allowed number of students. That too, Mrs Brinek. But you do not take note of it! They refer to any statistical sizes. This is particularly the failure of Mr Amon to refer to any calculated statistical sizes that have nothing to do with what really happens in schools. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, in recent weeks or months, Mr Amon, have you been in school once? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] And now I come to your motion for a resolution. This is a combination of logic and reason on the part of the government parties. The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour is asked to call on the AMS to establish a priority in information technology for the further training of young teachers without appointment, with the aim of ensuring that these young teachers are available to the IT training sector and the economy after obtaining the additional qualification. Mr Amon! Two things need to be noted: These teachers with this additional education we only need in schools, only in schools! There is currently too little. There's a blatant lack. - Point one. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Point two, Mr Amon: What about the educational institutions that in most of the federal states are under the management of the ÖVP? Are they unable to communicate these additional qualifications to teachers? Why avoid the AMS? We have educational institutes, and you know as well as I do that in recent years, regardless of whether the educational institutes are managed black or red, the savings course of the Federal Government has also reached them and is to be saved everywhere – at the expense of education and at the expense of the future! And here, Mr Amon, we are certainly not involved in this convenient waste and outsourcing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Other around: The Federal Minister or the Federal Government takes out 250 million schilling from unemployment insurance for the purpose of the scholarship system. Yes, with what legitimacy, Mr Amon? [[Abg. Großruck: With the legitimacy of Parliament!]] With what legitimacy would I get into your pocket to finance my life? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Fulfilling a law!]] This has nothing to do with unemployment! If you take education seriously, you should also give it the appropriate priority, Mr Amon.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7817	The next speaker was Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7838	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I propose two more motions for resolutions, one by Mr Niederwiesser, who asks the National Council to decide to ensure free and open access to the university, to shape university reforms and reforms in the field of service rights in such a way as to ensure a positive impact on the quality of the study offers. The second motion for a resolution is from me, the...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7902	The sitting was suspended until further notice. (The sitting was suspended at 5.38 p.m. and resumed at 5.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7927	I'll start the interrupted session again. I would ask Mr Dr Antoni to continue his remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7951	High house! Before I continue my speech, I would like to express the hope that not too much has happened to our colleague and that he will recover from this incident as soon as possible. [[General condolences.]] I would just like to present my motion for a resolution to the end and then close it. We request that the National Council decide on a quality offensive, through a reform and improvement of teacher education and training, as well as through a more flexible teacher service and remuneration law, through additional educational opportunities, especially in the vocational education system and enough training places for our apprentices. Finally, the National Council should ensure the rapid implementation of the "computer billions" with the special measures already mentioned and the provision of a "adult education billion" to inform colleagues in order to ensure collaborations for professionals and to allow for the free collection of educational diplomas of all kinds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e7996	I announce that the applications for quality offensive in schools and in adult education, on the one hand, and for necessary reform steps at the Austrian universities on the other, were also submitted in writing, are sufficiently supported and are in a sufficient context. The two proposals are therefore also in favour of the vote. I have ordered that both applications with regard to the scope and complexity according to § 53 para. 4 GMOs are distributed. Furthermore, both applications will also be printed in the Stenographical Protocol. Applications shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e8373	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 397/A (E) tabled by Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Comrades on 'Education offensive now!". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Amon, Mr Mag. Schweitzer and comrades on the creation of skills in the IT field for young teachers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. (E 67.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kuntzl and comrades on the abolition of the non-social taxation of accident pensions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ddr. Dutch and comrades on necessary reform steps at the Austrian universities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Antoni and Mr Comrades on quality offensives in schools and adult education. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is also the minority and thus rejected. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e8473	We now come to the brief debate on the request made by Mr Dr Kostelka, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 387/A by Mr Dr. Gusenbauer and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988, a period of until 13. ==References====External links== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would point out that according to § 57 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretarys shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Plank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e8507	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Partik-Pablé obviously prefers not to actively participate in the vote today. However, she has already made a very clear declaration here today. – Mrs. Partik-Pablé! There's no bad campaign against you here, but your credibility as a politician is on the test. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have made it clear here today that you never want to say that you are in favour of withdrawing the accident pension tax. They are against the retroactive abolition of unsocial and unfair accident pension taxation. They are therefore for unfair and unsocial policies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Partik-Pablé! They're making a campaign against social weakness. They take their right to accident pensioners. "The modern government needs to take away money from the injured and disabled people in order to stop the debt holes. I'm concerned myself. I lost both legs in a move and I'm 100% invalid. I wonder if this is the new social security of the government," writes Mr Baumgartner from Tauplitz. We have to deal with this, ladies and gentlemen. I know Mr Baumgartner, he's from my neighboring community. I know about his life situation. We have to deal seriously with the fates of these people. It's not about a little ping pong game with the blind and the paralytic, as it is sometimes depicted. I quoted in November from the letter of a Mr. Schürrer, who spoke of "crumbs tax". He said: "I am a victim myself, since I have been invalid for 27 years. In short, my path of suffering: with 33 years of work accidents, 14 months of hospital stay, a total of four years, 30 operations, four years of wheelchair, then handling only short distances with the help of crags, continued severe pain despite medical treatment, severe psychological damage." At that time, when I quoted this section, an intermediate call came from the ÖVP series that was a tragic case. - No, it's not. This is the situation of many of those concerned. And you all knew that very well, and you all know it very well. At that time, you obviously still believed with your motto "Speed kills" – speed kills people, or what? – get through. Cynical Commentaries in Knowledge Their power came: Power comes to make it! But does unsocial, unjust, human beings and their fates really do power? A man from Tyrol lets me know: "Since 1957, I have been 60 percent invalid due to a work accident, because I lost my right hand. So I was dependent on a hand in all my working life." This man was then 15 years old. He received 2 043 S accident pension – 2 043 S for the loss of a hand! Imagine the life situation of this man! Almost as a child, he lost his hand. As a substitute for his injury, as a pain money for his operations and his suffering, as a bill for the reduction of his quality of life, as He received 2 043 S per month as an insurance benefit. And then a social researcher discovers "oversupply"! A Finance Minister acts in the FPÖ-Reflex on suspicion of social poverty and smells money. It serves the fetish zero deficit – money for the budget, wherever it may come from. For this man, the accident pension tax is: in the future only more than 868 S for his impairment. 868 S instead of 2 043 S! – Mr Gaugg, 868 S instead of 2 043 S for a hand that the man has not had for 40 years! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] That's what it's all about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In spite of this impairment, he has worked for his life, and as a compensation for damages, he has taken out money from an insurance scheme, Mr Gaugg. That's what it's all about. And the Federal Government and the representatives of the government parties are still talking about social security. That's right, you'll surely meet the weak. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You will also meet these stakeholders with many others of your actions: Ambulance fees, increased prescription fees; a day in hospital costs for such a person much more than recently. I say: Bad luck, little man! Who actually wanted to make politics for this much praised little man? Who actually wanted that? The man from Tyrol says: "This is the current politicization: Punishment for having been punished by fate for a lifetime." – At the age of 15, this man lost his hand! How do you react that people who receive 10,000 S pension and an accident pension of 3,000 S are now taxed by 24 percent? How do you react to the situation of people receiving 15 000 S pension and 3 000 S accident pension and whose accident pension is now taxed at 32 per cent? How do you react to the situation of people who have 30 000 S gross pension and 5 000 S accident pension and whose accident pension is now taxed at 56.5 percent? How do you react to these figures, ladies and gentlemen? 56 percent! This is how you react: Federal Chancellor's bowl is silent as always, because he doesn't deal with Lappalia. The Federal Chancellor is the Federal Chancellor for all Austrians. I wonder, What's he got the demonstrating accident pensioner on 1st. Is that what you said on March? Did he tell them that their protest was inadmissible as he did with the trade unionists? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] The Minister for Finance says: The budget target is not to be tossed! - Preferred student? For whom? For what? And against whom, Mr. Collegue? Against whom? – I tell you: against people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Klubobmann Khol says: It must not be repaired at the expense of the budget!, even though he has still signaled the Robin Hood from Carinthia obedience on the carnival Sunday. Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler says as always: Polemik! Mr Sozial Spokesman Feurstein says that the accident pensioners would be well advised to see that they have to contribute their little pieces. – Mr Feurstein! Losing a third to a half of income – I tell you: It's not a little bit, it's a big sacrifice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Brinek speaks of "small losses". What may be small for them and for me is large for a pensioner of 15,000 s. They all know: 60 percent of the accident pensioners are pensioners. The average income is 15 000 S, the average level of accident pensions is 3 000 S. For these people, the losses are not small. Minister Bartenstein informed those affected that they had been misinformed. – Cynical cancellation of people from the government bank. And the "simple party member" has letters written that the accident pensioners may look over the fence of their own egocentrics. – It is also reasonable to want to live self-centered. It is also self-centered to demand his right to benefit from an insurance. And it is about an insurance, it is about right, not about alms, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They all – and also Mrs. Partik-Pablé as the spokesperson of the FPÖ – kill people. Mr. Lacner from Innsbruck says – I quote – that: "These are no longer victims, these are robberies against the incomes of pensioners and accident pensioners. There has never been any such action in Austria against a group of the population." Argument You don't have to relinquish hard cases now. If you've listened, you know: It's all hard. Those who can still feel a spark of conscience within themselves – addressed to all the representatives of the government parties – must simply agree with our party's proposal for deadlines today. He owes people that! The human being – not me.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e8662	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Dr Kostelka, I would like to say that Mr Hajek is already satisfied with the circumstances. [[General condolences.]] I now ask Mr Kostelka to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e8692	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This coalition first came to the social attitude and then to abandon the social conscience. [[Call the ÖVP:And then the Socialists!]] Ladies and gentlemen, 110 000 people are affected by your measure of the taxation of accident pensions! Indeed, this is not a group of persons who are good at the measure. An average income of 14 000 S is to be determined, and in these 14 000 S there are 3 000 S of an accident pension. You'll take about a third of this. Between 1 000 and 12 000 S per month, these people are actually being removed. The only justification you have in this context is the fig leaf that you claim to return 1 billion schilling to the disabled from the 2 billion shillings that have been made in this way. Ladies and gentlemen! This will greatly decumber you yourself. You only have a disability policy if the disabled pay for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is such a strange - in order not to use a tougher word that the President could sanction - that is such a problematic way of doing so, that I can only classify it by saying: They live in the spirit world of an alms society! It is not your goal of solidarity, but the poorest of the poor have to finance social policy itself. If you already have a social conscience with six months of late, as with Dr. Haider and Dr. Partik-Pablé, this is immediately stopped in a brutal manner. Ladies and gentlemen! Even if Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé says it five more times, ten more times, a hundred more times, the APA message "OTS034" of 3. March of this year, 10.59 p.m., clearly states its commitment that the abolition of taxation is retroactive with 1. It should be decided on January 2001. That's what she said nine days ago. – Today, the FPÖ election machinery has obviously passed over them. Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé did not even have the courage to comment on her own opinion of 3. March to confess. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Your only credo today is a fund of hardness, a fund of hardness, of which you know that he is certainly unable to do one, namely to eliminate the really social injustice! This measure, the taxation of accident pensions, is unsocial, is dangerous to existence, is to a great extent unfair and also unconstitutional. We have submitted a request to the Constitutional Court, and this request will lead to the repeal of this law in six months, in eight, in twelve months. – You have the opportunity to reach a political solution today and here through your conduct as a politician by deciding to withdraw it now. Ladies and gentlemen! Do this, show the rest of the social conscience and agree to our deadline request! This would only be consistent in the sense of what your electoral locomotive in Vienna, Dr. Partik-Pablé, has clearly said.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e8743	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e8764	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] No, Mrs Plank, it's not about us holding a ping-pong game. We don't put words like "Speed kills people" in our mouth either. [[Abg. Sweamlein: Put the actions, not the words!]] I feel it is unheard of that you use such formulations in this context, even if they have been spoken English. - That's not how it is! I didn't talk about a little bit, either, Mrs Plank. But you pretend, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, that the taxation of accident pensions was invented by the ÖVP/FPÖ government. You do! I have to quote once again a statement by Minister Lacina from the Government's draft on the Novelle Income Tax Act 1988. He writes, with your approval, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I can't spare you. [[Abg. Gradwell: Mr. Dr. Feurstein, has it ever been implemented? It has been reserved for you to implement this!]] With her approval, Minister of Finance Lacina wrote: The general freedom of taxation of benefits arising from a statutory accident care system is limited by the fact that they represent income replacements. - Quote. "Income substitutes", ladies and gentlemen! The taxation of the accident pension was introduced at the time, proposed by you, suggested and proposed by your Minister of Finance and decided with your consent at the time. [[Abg. You have the right to be smarter! Weak argument!]] [[Abg. Verbatim: Read your own application!]] But I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, this is socially fair – we have various social benefits for the disabled, we have a disability pension, we have an accident pension – this is socially fair: Persons with exactly the same disability, with exactly the same expectations of a pension, on a social benefit, but one person had a work accident, the other person had a leisure accident, and both received an invalidity pension at the same level. [[Abg. May. Plank: Insurance benefit!]] The disability pension is taxed – I say it as Minister of Finance Lacina said: It's a "income replacement"! – the accident pension is not taxed. Is that socially fair? I ask you: Is that socially fair? [[Abg. Conspicuously, you're talking about better knowledge!]] Why have you never been ready to re-evaluate and re-design the accident pension problem in general? You've never been ready to do that! I would also like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, this is socially fair: two disabled people, both are inability to work, one from birth, and the other by accident at work. [[Abg. Verbatim: What are the facts for the measurement?]] The person from birth to the disabled receives, with the exception of care allowance and family allowance, zero social benefit, the other receives an invalidity pension and an accident pension. Shouldn't that be changed? – Yes, that must be changed! If any of you, from the SPÖ, can come here and say: These things are socially just!, then we can talk about these things. We are talking about social hardships! [[Abg. You're talking about apples and pears!]] You know exactly: We have tabled a request, and this request is already being dealt with in a working group set up by the Federal Government. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you: The results will be available before Your request can be examined because you are constantly preventing the meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs from being held by the SPÖ. We have requested, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, dates for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. They have not yet been willing to agree to just one session. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You have rejected ours! That is really a loss of reality!]] That's your attitude. We cannot negotiate social problems in the Committee. We will deal with the social hardships of the accident pension tax and bring it to a solution. But we do not need your request in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e8920	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e8968	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The most unsocial thing a party can do is leave behind huge debt mountains. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is once an irrevocable fact that you from SPÖ have been unable for decades to provide a proper budget. If representatives of the SPÖ go out here and explain under crocodile tears how tragic it would be if a 15-year-old loses a hand and gets 2 043 S for that, then you should think about whether these 2 043 S are not from home an alms, a alms for which you bear responsibility, because you and your social policy have contributed to the fact that 1 million people live on the poverty line in our country. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Got it!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the other hand, you have created areas such as the ÖBB and similar, where paradisiacal conditions exist. [[Abg. Edler: Are you saying something to the railways?]] - Still, dear Edler! [[Abg. Grade: 2 043 S has gotten! Now he gets 800 s by your policy!]] A moment, listen to this is also a characteristic, Mr Commissioner, let me once again present my comments to the end, you will be surprised! [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] They complain of the SPÖ under crocodile tears the ambulance fee of 150 s as a dramatic cut in the quality of life of a human being – but they do not know that there has already been self-retaining among the organic workers, the self-employed, under your era. [[Abg. Edler: Are you saying something to the railways again?]] No, I'm talking to the railways. Where, then, was Mr Edler's call for 10 per cent of all employees of the ÖBB? Where was he? - Great silence from Mr. Edler! Where was the SPÖ, who was so powerful, once so great? For their children, the parents have to turn up to 30,000 s, because the checkouts don't pay for it! Where, then, is your appeal against the main association, which represents an enemy image for many cash offices in Austria, with its president at the head, who, while still receiving a princely salary, was not prepared to make a contribution to the renovation of the household of social security funds? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That's really adventurous what you're saying. I would recommend the SPÖ – I hear any action that this government takes: Constitutional Court! Administrative Court! –: Pull your deputies back! If you submit draft laws to the Constitutional Court, you would save the taxpayer a lot of money! That's all right. Their only activity as opposition party in recent months. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Another one in your direction: You always get on the plan when it's too late! The accident pension tax needs urgent financial repair, as you know. This has also been expressed by this government party, with a request for an examination of cases of hardship. And one of them is certainly this one example mentioned by Mr Plank. Of course, it cannot be assumed that those people are being overburdened to be taxed, but – and here I am with Mr. Feurstein – why do you not resort to invalidity pensions? We are also going so far as to say that we will examine a retroactive withdrawal. We certainly don't need the SPÖ to support this. I may be reminded that you have not raised pensions, that you have halved the pocket money for plumbers and more. So don't pretend that everything you have decided on would have created paradisiacal conditions and would now take action that people are taking! You need a playground from SPÖ because you lack the political base. I can tell you: This government, or the representatives of the government coalition, will certainly succeed in creating a solution for the people of this country, so that things can be better – and not bad ones.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e9091	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e9112	Mr President. High house! I always pay close attention to the speakers of Mr Gaugg, as well as to those of Mr Feurstein. Sometimes Mr Gaugg makes the point. He says something right sometimes, just: Mr Gaugg, today you've talked yourself into an ordinary vortex! In an ordinary vortex! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is entirely legitimate to ask the question: Why does someone who lacks the hand get only an accident pension of 2,500 s? But, Mr Gaugg, then take away 1 700 s from the 2 500 s, which is already a proper piece of unfrozenness on the part of the government parties. There's nothing more to justify! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I don't want to think about whether Mr Gaugg's thought on and for himself would be useful, because I know what – if I thought – will come out of it. That colleague, who unfortunately received only 2 500 s after his serious accident, would possibly receive 10,000 s of accident pension, only after the severity of the accident. But I'm sure: Then you will immediately come to colleague Feurstein or colleague Gaugg or at least colleague Westenthaler and say of the "exorbitant wastes" in the area of accident insurance if you receive 10 000 S accident pension for a missing hand. They would demand that this be properly taxed. Isn't it? Has this not always been the "logic" of the government parties in the debate about accident pensions? They are here criticising the fact that some of the accident pensioners receive benefits which are disproportionate to their other income. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Plank has given you an example, I give another example; I know the example of Mr Plank. Another example: ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This accident pensioner is taxed for the first time by his 33 000 s; the pension has not yet been taxed, colleague Feurstein. The deduction of his total pension is 8 900 s per month. And this accident pensioner, of course, interprets it in such a way that this approximately 9 000 s is deducted from his accident pension or from his pension, as you would prefer. How is he supposed to interpret it differently? 11 000 S was the pension, 20,000 S was the accident pension, and he says that his pension is left with him now 2 000 S. And here you say, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties: We will avoid hardships!Unknown term type: "%s".? This is a hardship, and Mr Plank, as an example, is also a hardness, but they are fundamentally different! And precisely because you, Mr Feurstein, are talking about the approximation and similar classification of invalidity pensions, in the case of accident pensions, I would like to tell you that: You know that every private accident pension of a private insurance company – even if it has to be taxed a hundred times – is not taxed! You know exactly, Mr Feurstein: Every accident pension under the Military Supply Act is not taxed! There you stand for the exception! You know exactly that's unconstitutional. Nevertheless: When it comes to cashing in 2 billion schillings somewhere, don't shave for nothing! They absolutely don't care if it's socially just, incomprehensible whether it's merciless – you do it because you think anyone has to pay it. Finally, Mr Feurstein, Mr Gaugg: Why do accident pensioners have to pay for a budget deficit? Why does Mr Bartenstein not pay, why does Mr Prinzhorn not pay to mention just two examples of those who truly have more income than the accident pensioners I have quoted?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e9176	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 387/A by Dr Gusenbauer and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988, a period of time until 13. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. Vote on two further requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e9212	We now come to the vote on the request, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on Amendment No 391/A (E) by Dr Gusenbauer and colleagues on the abolition of the non-confidential measures of the Federal Government. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – I note that it is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Committee on Education for Reporting on Amendment 86/A by Mr Antoni and Mr Comrades, concerning a federal law amending the School Education Act 1986, until 9. ==References== I ask all those who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00059_d7e9256	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 397/A to 406/A. Questions 2095/J to 2115/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Tuesday, 27 May. March 2001, 10 a.m. will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
