ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3263	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome you all very warmly and may ask you to take the places so that we can use the 80. The National Council meeting, which has been convened for today, can begin. In this sense, I declare the meeting to be opened. The Official Protocols of 77, 78 and 79. A meeting was held in Parliament's management, without any opposition, and is therefore deemed approved. As prevented, Mrs. Dr. Mertel has been reported. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3300	The Federal Chancellor has informed me that he has been prevented for today's meeting because of a trip abroad and that he is in accordance with Rule 69 para. 2 Federal Constitutional Law is represented by Mrs. Vice chancellor. [[See also p. 20]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3324	We'll get to the current hour. The proposal is to devote the present hour to the following topic: Protection of the population from terrorism and crime In the current hour, the first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes. In this sense, I give Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler the word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3361	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the terrible terrorist attacks of the 11th century. In Europe, indeed throughout the world, September is being thought about how to increase security standards in the individual countries, how to prevent criminals, terrorists from travelling across the countries and continuing to drive their beings in the civilized world. I am thinking, for example, of Germany, the German Minister of the Interior Schily, who made a few proposals in his second anti-terrorism package: from the device regulation to the introduction of fingerprints in all passports. I am thinking, for example, of the Social Democratic Bundestag Group, which calls for improvements in internal security in a package of measures, including fingerprints to identify persons, exchange of relevant data and a close look at future citizenship and asylum seekers. These are the demands of the Socialist Group in Germany – not in Austria. In this context, I also think of the German Chancellor Schröder of the SPD, who said that one should check the possibility of giving fingerprints in personnel cards in the future and decide on the second anti-terrorism package of Schily. But I also think of the CSU politician Stoiber in Bavaria, who insisted that Islamic extremists can be identified more easily, and he said: We need more control over who's coming to Germany! Ladies and gentlemen! As another interesting part of this series, the head of the UK government demands Tony Blair, also a social democrat, to take tougher laws against terrorism, to strengthen asylum law and to speed up disfellowshipping. All these statesmen, all those top politicians always demand the same thing: Measures to protect the population from crime and terrorism – and we must do so here in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, because the danger of further terrorist attacks is latent, yes, they are already taking place at another level, at a cruel level, namely at the level of biological weapons. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] Unfortunately, we have to take note of that. That is why this present hour has real topicality, and we can only invite all parties in this House to enter an idea competition in relation to the question: How to make Austria safer? We can only insist on never losing sight of the central goal, namely that Austria will not be a scene or a hiding place for international terror, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of course, asylum law is at the heart of the discussion, which is Europe-wide. – I have already quoted. And I'll send you in advance: No one wants flat-rate suspicions or flat-rate judgments that asylumers are in principle to be met with distrust! - No! But it is legitimate for us elected politicians who are responsible for the security of the Austrians to make every effort to ensure that no criminals, no criminals and no terrorists under the title "Asyl" come to us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Then, especially from the left half of the empire, the argument always comes: Yes, but the terrorists of the 11th century. All of them were not asylumers on September! – Perfect right; you are right. But, ladies and gentlemen, our discussion cannot be in the past, but must be directed towards the future! That is why it is also legitimate to say: We want there to be no chance for terrorists to come to Austria under the title "Asyl". That must be our goal, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Therefore, it is also legitimate to think about strengthening asylum rights, improving and reforming how we liberals have done this in our last clause and presented a 13-point anti-terror package. This includes: Accelerating procedures. – What is bad about accelerating asylum procedures? Or: The reporting obligation for asylum seekers waiting here for us to terminate the asylum procedure. – What is bad about having asylumers waiting here – where you don’t know who to do with yet – to report regularly to the authority in order to document that they really want asylum? What is bad about trying to prevent further chain applications, since, whenever a request is rejected, a new application is immediately made in order to continue the asylum procedure?- Oh, my God! – That's not supposed to happen! And what is bad about representing a very consistent deportation – in cases where this is necessary, if someone is involved in extremist or terrorist organizations?- Oh, my God! – In this case, this person has not lost anything here in the country, ladies and gentlemen, then we must also carry out an expulsion! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Or: If someone comes to Austria with a fake identity, he has already committed a breach of justice. Then he doesn't want to integrate at all, but he may have something else before, and that needs to be checked. But we also need to look very closely at those living here, at foreign violent agents. I even go that far – and this also comes from Germany – to say: not only in the case of violent perpetrators, but in the future we must look more closely at calls for violence. There must be consequences. That is crucial, that is very important. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have long discussed the use of modern identification systems, so-called biometric methods – one of them is fingerprint. However, this is rejected by SPÖ in Bausch and Bogen, although this is already being discussed in Germany quite specifically. In this context, I recommend that you open today's "Kronen Zeitung", where it reads on pages 8 and 9: "Protect from terror: ID card of the future!" Here you can see the identification of the future: with fingerprints, with facial geometry. [[the speaker keeps the current issue of the "Kronen Zeitung" up to date]] – This is exactly the idea that the Germans are currently discussing. The "Kronen Zeitung" writes – I quote –: "Since two of New York's Kamikaze pilots had even arrived with fake ID cards on board the death machine, a discussion on the safety of ID cards is now taking place. While one is still discussing fingerprints in Austria, one is already working in Germany on the ‘Ideas of the Future’.” - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! They know that the terrorists were in the 11th century. ==References====External links==* Official website – A fingerprint provides 100% protection and the certainty that counterfeiting will no longer be possible in the future. That is why it is also the system of the future, which will certainly come, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I can't understand the "logic" of the SPÖ in this context at all, she says: A fingerprint criminalizes all; all those who print a fingerprint would be put down by us as criminals, suspects! At the same time, however, you defend and support the European Union's project by the SPÖ that all asylum seekers will have to print fingerprints from next year onwards. What does that mean in the reverse? – Would you claim that all asylum seekers are criminals because they have to print fingerprints? This is a "logic" that we cannot understand; I think Einstein would also despair of this strange logic of relativity, in the way you see it, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! That doesn't fit together! They have also quit relatively much of the SPÖ, as is the case with security policy: No proposal has been made so far by the SPÖ; no points, no packages, no idea! Only everything is rejected by you! I recommend you: Hit After you at Otto Schily, you beat in Germany with your comrades, they are already much more than you are! You should also take some points from there, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! We also demand targeted data networking in this package. Data protection must not be perpetrator protection in the future! Therefore, we want to be able to use data specifically. Further: Extension of the prod­ucts regulation, increased penalties on so-called pedal drivers. I am very grateful that the Minister of Justice has taken initiatives in this regard – up to the increased monitoring of extremist organisations. That, ladies and gentlemen, is important. Summary: We do not want to question the Geneva Convention, but we want it to be looked more closely about granting asylum. We want new and innovative ideas in the fight against crime. In September, the vulnerability of Western security systems, as well as their fragility to the new terror, showed. And that's why we have to react. This is the task of responsible politicians. We're – damn it! – opted to protect the Austrians as best as possible, with the best possible methods, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer, you once said in an interview: Security or freedom; both are not possible! – I say: Of course they're both going! And: Those who want to live freely need protection from terrorism and crime. We therefore want to be a reliable partner for the Austrians, including what safety is going on. We've done our homework: We have presented a clear, comprehensive package, which is now being submitted to the deliberations. We will take the protection of the population seriously in the future – even if you cannot keep up with your strange "logic" from the SPÖ. However, we invite you to participate actively in the ideas competition for protection and safety in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3551	Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of the meeting, I apologise to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for today's meeting. This was done on the basis of a letter written to me by the Federal Chancellor: "Dear Mr President! I honor to tell you that I am from 23 to 25. ==References== ==References== It will be held abroad in November 2001." Now, however, I was informed that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany will not be able to take part in this trip until the afternoon and is therefore likely to take part in part of this meeting before his departure. – Please take note. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Euroteam! Jarolim!]] As part of the current hour, Mr Scheibner, Federal Minister, has now come forward with an opinion. Under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, this opinion shall not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3588	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that – as Klubobmann Westenthaler has already done here – since the 11th century. In September of this year, the issue of internal and external security has gained a new meaning. The threats that have been apparent since that day, since this terrible terrorist attack, are not new. All security experts – including those here in the High House – have often and again demonstrated the threat of internationally organized, militaryly structured terrorism in discussions. ==References== September all of this is very, very up-to-date. We all have the obligation to respond accordingly to this new current situation, both in terms of external and internal security. We see that the threat that such activists and terrorists pose is not beyond state limits Halt poses a threat – not just to international treaties – but to the whole democratic community globally and internationally. We must face this threat in a comprehensive way, namely foreign policy and preventive, and together with the democratic community of states. Not only do we have to find out – as it is now – the behind-men and causers of terrorist attacks or move against them to fields, but we also have to fight the causes, the roots of terrorism, which are to be sought in many of the world's crisis spots, especially in the Middle East. On the other hand, however, it is also necessary to do everything possible and necessary on the inside so that criminals are not always a step ahead of terrorists and therefore constitute a more serious threat or danger. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There has been a wealth of use in us, both of the forces of the Ministry of the Interior and of the Austrian Federal Army. In 69 cases there were suspicions and indications of possible biological or chemical martial substances. – Thank God there were no confirmations of such suspicions, but it was – I would like to say clearly – a mistake in trying to frighten the people in an incredibly unresponsible way. Nevertheless, it is necessary to be always vigilant and take each of these suspicions seriously. The forces of the Austrian federal army, especially the ABC defence school, are internationally best trained, appropriately equipped so that they can cover the current security situation as well. I can say that cooperation between the security sectors, but also with the Federal Ministry of Social Security, can only be considered excellent. In this regard, we have really eliminated any bureaucracy, any conflict of competence, in order to guarantee maximum efficiency and safety for the population. The measures to be taken can be really effective and targeted. Ladies and gentlemen! However, in order to reflect here also the introductory words of Mr. Klubobmanns Westenthaler, it is necessary to further develop the relevant measures in the field of internal security. We see that the recognition measures have not yet been sufficient to ensure the identification of criminals in the international context, especially of international criminals. [[Abg. Arbitrator: That's what the Minister of Defense does?]] Mr. Schieder! I am a member of this Federal Government and, as you do, I am committed to the Constitution of the Republic. All of us should therefore strive to help ours to ensure that our Republic is safe so that the people of our country can live in security. I hope we agree on this. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There is no place – I expressly say this here – for any ideological scams! So why are you here in Austria – quite unlike Germany – the alleged problem of fingerprints on identification? And elsewhere, this is going on and going, because of course it is also defined and discussed by a socialist government: for the purpose of better identification and for greater protection against counterfeit ID papers! – For example, no one would bring the need for a passport photo on a card into a connection with a criminal card. We should therefore be very calm, but very consistently, to examine the new possibilities for better protection and security of our people and to decide in an international fashion. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I say that as you say correctly, Mr. Foreign Minister, not directly responsible Minister, but as an indirectly affected minister, what is happening to illegal immigration. I recall that 2 000 Austrian German soldiers are standing on the Austrian border permanently to prevent illegal immigration. We know that there is a problem that some of these illegal immigrants, Mr. Arbitrators who are receiving asylum proceedings, are going underground during the asylum process, because there is no appropriate means of care and no far-reaching identification measures. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Here the fingerprints will help, at the border!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I say quite clearly here: Of course, the support of the democratic community and thus of Austria must be obtained – and this is beyond dispute – politically persecuted. This is undisputed and beyond dispute. However, it must be the principle to give the politically persecuted first and foremost support in their home environment – therefore also a support action by the Austrian Federal Government for Pakistan. In those cases where this is not possible, asylum procedures in Austria must be accelerated. However, it is also necessary to ensure that abuse of asylum law can be excluded or minimized as far as possible. This is an order to every rule of law and is also our responsibility for protecting the Austrian population, but also for protecting the actually politically persecuted, who have a right not to be thrown into a pot with criminal elements that misuse the right to asylum. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we need as close international cooperation as possible, an information exchange, but that we will also need measures on the inside to make a greater distinction between the really politically persecuted people who are rightly applying for asylum here in Austria and, of course, will also have our support in the future, and those who, as criminals, abuse Austria by means of transit or stay, in order to pursue their illegal activities. In any event, the Austrians can be sure that, on the basis of our constitution and international law, we will take all necessary measures to ensure that we do not comply with these terrorists. We are only obliged to guarantee the protection and security of Austria and its people!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3687	We are now going into the debate on the subject of the current hour. For all the speakers involved in this debate, there is a uniform speaking time of 5 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3715	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I am somewhat surprised that the Minister of Defence has taken the floor and has spoken for 10 minutes on the subject of internal security, because, according to the Constitution, he has no competence in the field of internal security. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Can he do that?- Oh, my God!]] But it is likely that the Minister of the Interior has already requested his assistance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Today, the coalition and ministers demand additional billions for security. The FPÖ presents a security package and wants to profile itself here as a security party. Mr Strasser requires more staff, more money, verbally. But how does reality look? – The fact is that this government, this Minister of the Interior, has saved some 3,000 plan posts, that is, some 3,000 officials in the field of internal security, or apart, meaning that hundreds of police and gendarmen will not be on the street. The fact is that he removed more than one billion Shilling from the field of internal security, that he locks up 119 Gendarmerie Posts, police guards, commissioners. – And then put yourself here and ask for more staff and more money for internal security! That's the chuzpe of history! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is inconceivable how you break down the proven structures of the Austrian executive and thus ensure more uncertainty in this country. You have it also in connection with the airport Swallow made like this: First, you have been celebrated as the one who has saved 65 million schilling through personnel reduction, but then, after 11. September, you transferred 90 forces to Schwechat at once. High house! This was not a security-political premise, because one has to look at crises, one has to calculate emergencies, but you just save on safety, you save especially those people who are responsible for security. This is the wrong way, and it is very dangerous for security in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since ministers today were required that the German army take over tasks of internal security, for example in the context of an assistance mission – there is already one – and the idea that the German army should take over security tasks at the airport in Vienna-Swechat, I ask the question, Hohes Haus: Do you really want that? Do we really want the millions of tourists who come to our country, from the federal army, to be received by the military at the airport? Is that really the right way? Do we really want that? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: We want the citizens and the guests to feel safe!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr Westenthaler spoke here today on asylum law. I would just like to say one sentence: Austria has a modern asylum law, it meets the challenges – I am with the Minister for the Interior of Strasser – but we have nothing against it if Germany or, above all, the UK re-establishes its legal bases in this area. We have nothing against it. In connection with the fingerprints, I have to make another clarification, as Mrs Partik-Pablé again falsely claimed yesterday that asylum seekers are not taken off fingerprints. – Yes, since 1991 become – you have decided to do so! – the asylum seekers are very likely to lose fingerprints! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are they criminals? That's why they're criminals?]] Therefore, act You too with unfair means! [[New calls to the liberals.]] Of course in Austria! It is inconceivable that you do not understand what you decide yourself! Ladies and gentlemen! Terrorism must be combated at its roots! I believe that it is essentially a policy task to ensure that conflicts are satisfied, for example in the Middle East. The main issue is that there is international cooperation in the field of civil security – within the framework of the "Eupol", the Interpol. There is a real need for action – and I am now coming to the end, Mr President – to be retrofitted, and this is a question of drying the financial envelope of terror. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] High house! The SPÖ has proposed the financial rationalization, and you should really accept our proposals! Yes to the international option...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3819	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3834	... on the fight against terrorism, no on the question of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3864	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3894	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Parnigoni said that the Freedom Party wanted to profile itself as the security party. To this end: We no longer need to profile, but we are the security party, Mr Parnigoni, which is traditional. [[Complaints with the liberals]] You are long enough in Parliament to know that. In the meantime, we are already familiar with the policy of the opposition: Any proposal made by the government parties will be defamated. All of this always depends on certain stereotypes. All proposals will be disqualified. Kuntzl, Cap and Co have not made any constructive proposal in this entire security discussion. I think you should have seen that before. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why they're gone!]] And if the government doesn't do anything, then you're the first to get upset and beat the government parties because nothing's done. You should consider what security policy we should be doing together for our state, for our Austria. I mean, everybody should work together. And you should stop defying, with primitive arguments to destroy all the proposals. They should put constructive proposals on the table. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] ==References====External links== A great need for action in the matter of security on September. In almost all Western countries, the asylum laws, immigration laws, data protection laws are covered, and it is considered how to get under control or at least better monitor the network of terrorism. Only the SPÖ and the Greens see no need for action in Austria at all. They obviously believe that we live on the island of the Blessed. Maybe we'll do it, maybe something will never happen in Austria – that can be possible already; nobody knows it, I don't know, you don't know. But I believe that for a parliament, for political parties, it is urgently necessary that they take such attacks, as they have been put in America, as a matter of fact, to examine their own laws, to look at their own execution and to examine where something can happen, which could become a subject for the Austrians. I ask you again: Work with us! We have repeatedly appealed to the opposition to cooperate – especially in the field of security. It says that we need more information. Of course, these reconnaissances include better identification possibilities, and the fingerprint is now the most modern in this field. I do not see at all why you are so excited about it, for example in Spain and Portugal there has been an identification card for all Spanish and Portuguese people who have been finger-printed for years. I would like to quote your own party friend or party brother from the SPD. He said: What is to be expected of the visitors to the Zoo of Hanover, namely to print a fingerprint at the entrance, will also be to the people at the passport places if they apply for a passport. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... these are all "criminals"!]] I think this clearly shows that the fingerprint is not at all dangerous, but that you like to represent it. I would also like to address our 13-point programme, which you have so crushed in the air. We do not say at all that we have the solutions – the solutions to terrorism are simply not available – but it is an approach to how we can make the situation safer here in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say one thing about the opposition – I would like to quote Schily again; You can imagine that it is not very pleasant for a liberal to quote a socialist MP, but Schily really has to be used as an example in this security discussion. Schily said before the German Bundestag that one should not raise the accusation that one does not mean it with security and the other does not mean it with freedom. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Security is the prerequisite for freedom. And no one can live in freedom and not live safely if he has to be afraid of terrorist attacks.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e3999	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4020	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! We have the task of opposing the international network of terrorism to a network of security. And I am pleased that both the Federal Government and Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselpersonal immediately responded and put the cooperation in the foreground. I may address the SPÖ and its spokesperson Parnigoni: We are for the cooperation of the executive, the federal government and also of foreign policy – that is our will – so that the Austrians, as well as the guests who come to Austria, can continue to feel secure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing security in this House, then of course we are also discussing the German army. With its competence, the Austrian Federal Army contributes significantly to our safety. We can rely on the competence of the professional soldiers, the military soldiers and the present servants and can expect them to continue to stand up for our security and do everything, both nationally and internationally, in order to preserve our country safely. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We know: Since 1955, the Austrian Federal Army has been on the road in national but also on an international mission. For the last ten years, we have also been carrying out the task of the "Partnership for Peace" with all NATO countries, with all those countries that have committed themselves internationally to strengthening democracies and the economy, helping people there to get up to date that the systems are solidifying accordingly. That's where our federal army is. I believe that this preventive approach can help to maintain peace in sensitive areas or, if necessary, to create peace. We can therefore proudly point out that our federal army of peacekeeping is not only fair in our country but also beyond. I should like to point out what services are provided by the Federal Army for our protection: the services of border protection, international disaster and human aid. I remember the successes of decoupling in letter bomb terrorism. I remember that the airspace is adequately secured – and this is still with the Dragons. The responsibility to take on land and air is his task. And to say here that the airspace would not be important to Austria, ladies and gentlemen, is negligent. We do not want to take this risk from the People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The new Security Doctrine, which is under discussion, refers in ten positions to terrorism, extremism and draws attention to the need to widen the scope of security policy in terms of foreign policy, internal policy and defence policy. Unfortunately, terror is not the only risk, terror is not the only problem, it is one of many. It would be wrong to talk exclusively about the danger and the risks of terrorism, because we also have other risks. International cooperation, international exchange of experience and international solidarity are particularly important for a small country such as Austria. We agree that this international cooperation will be strengthened even more in the service of Austrian security. And I am pleased that the parties, apart from the Greens, share the common view that there can be no neutrality against terrorism. Unfortunately, the Greens have a dispute and a lack of guidance in this regard. If our federal army is better equipped, it can in future make the security contribution required by it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4099	Next, Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4120	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé asked us here especially in the light of opposition: Work with us! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens in Austria and in particular the Green National Council Group are very happy to cooperate with other political groups when other political groups make meaningful proposals. Yes, of course we like to work together for the security of the population in this country, because the security of the population in that country is an important concern of political work – yes, quite clearly! – just as the observance of the rule of law is an important concern for us. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If it is necessary to adopt measures today, while respecting the rule of law, under the extension of the rule of law, while respecting fundamental rights, we will not shut down, ladies and gentlemen. For example, the government's statement of intent on speeding up asylum procedures is a very sensible proposal. For many years I myself have been working as a Green Migration and Justice Spokesman for many years and I have been calling for speeding up the procedures, because on the one hand, it is not reasonable for the authorities to have to deal with procedures for years, and on the other hand, above all, not the parties involved in the proceedings to wait for years for decisions. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 13 points!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Accelerating procedures – please. We would like to see your specific proposals, but there is no one yet, and then we will estimate whether a procedural acceleration is possible in terms of respect for the rule of law. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] Ladies and gentlemen! But you know the development of recent years: The Constitutional Court dismissed a 48-hour Frist for an appeal in the asylum proceedings as unconstitutional, and it had to be removed from the Austrian legal order again. That's not how it will be, Minister of State Strasser, Mrs Partik-Pablé. But process acceleration: yes. A second point, ladies and gentlemen: We are happy to work with you when it comes to improving the care of asylum seekers in Austria. Only one third of asylum seekers and asylum seekers receive support in Austria and come to federal care. Yes, please, make suggestions on how to prevent asylum seekers from slipping into social nothing and thus sometimes into crime. We are very willing to cooperate constructively! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, you must also know the facts on the table: This year, in 2001, 20 068 asylum proceedings were legalized in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] 20 068 – a large number. Of these, 796 were done positively, i.e. of 20 068 applicants who eventually received 796 asylum in Austria. These are the relations that we are dealing with when we hear that asylum law is to be strengthened in Austria. I ask you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: What do you want to do with an asylum right if 20 000 people who ask for asylum actually receive only 796 asylum? – There is nothing to be made worse in Austria, because we have one of the EU’s sharpest systems on asylum law in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Any further intensification of asylum law means a restriction of the Geneva Convention on Refugees, a restriction of rights under the European Convention on Human Rights and therefore unconstitutional intentions which you seem to have, ladies and gentlemen. I too – now I agree with the statements made by Mr Scheibner – I too, Mr President-in-Office of the Federal Minister, am committed to the Constitution of the Republic, and I stand with both legs and with a lot of weight on the ground of the Austrian Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. I will not allow the Austrian Constitution to be trampled on – that is my final sentence, Mr President – when it comes to the rights of underprivileged people in that country. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] And asylum seekers and refugees are a protective group, which we hope will agree on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4207	In the course of the debate, Mr. Dr. Strasser spoke. The speaking time is therefore also 5 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4228	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== September is becoming increasingly clear, more clearly, that we are dealing with a far-reaching network of perpetrators and organisations that are linking terrorist goals with all means of organized violence and organised crime, including drugs, including money laundering, including economic crime. It is therefore our task, based on the Federal Chancellor's action plan, which he outlined in front of this House at the end of September, to draw up the resolutions of the National Council of 26 September. September and the resolution of the Council of Ministers of 2 September. October to present a comprehensive security package that will ensure security under the changed conditions under 11. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Some of the building blocks of this new national security programme have rightly been mentioned here by the government bank and the speaker's desk. I would like to add a few more: the strategic state and terrorist protection that we need. We therefore want to build a separate analytical unit, which, through risk analysis and strategic analysis, ensures that we have good information in the past. We also need a central prevention centre in the new Federal Criminal Office. In addition to the well-functioning network of ambassadors, we also need a network of investigators in sensitive regions of the world to get information quickly. I am grateful for the fact that in the Council of Ministers and in a few weeks' time in the Committee on the Interior and then in the National Council, the Federal Criminal Office will be discussed as a new service to combat organised crime and hopefully will also be decided. We are becoming important areas since the 11th century. September has more importance, including the development of cross-border computer communications concepts, technical enlargement, in particular in the fight against IT crime, but also in networking with Europol and Interpol, which we want to intensify. Thirdly, we need further and better penetration in the persecution. That's why I commissioned us to get a comprehensive operational state and terrorist protection in the form of our cobra. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want to be able to reach every place in Austria in 70 minutes to fight terrorist attacks, no matter where in Austria they take place, with the most modern methods. We will have to modernise our technical device; there are a number of things we are striving for. All this costs personnel, all that costs money. And it must be said very clearly that the security situation is following the 11th century. September 2000 was fundamentally different from that in February 2000 at the beginning of the legislative period. Therefore, in good discussions within the government, together with the Minister of Defence, together with the Minister of Finance, I will discuss these points and priorities of our work for a national security programme for Austria together with the Deputy Chancellor responsible for personnel, and I am convinced that we will be able to achieve a very good result for greater security in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this context, I would like to thank the National Council and the Federal Council for the fact that, in general, we have received or have already received, in the near future, the necessary framework conditions that we need for our work; Noise attack and grid arrest, the National Security Council, the BKA law or the implementation of Eurodac are just some of these points. It is crucial and important for the fight against terrorism and international crime, according to the findings of the 11th century. September that we, all the security forces and security facilities that the Republic owns, are collapsing. Maybe, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also a form of new government that is sitting here on this issue of the Minister of Defence, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. They belong together on this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I attach great importance to good cooperation, and I am very grateful to the units of the Ministry of Defence, Justice and also the Ministry of Finance for the possibility of this good cooperation. I would like to invite the House, all parties, to ensure this cooperation on the security of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4316	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4338	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After the terrible events in New York and Washington, a climate of solitude has also ruled in Austria for a few days. Shortly thereafter, however, we were again allowed to experience the usual scourge that has been happening more and more recently within the coalition parties when it comes to issues of security policy. Mr Westenthaler took the strict tone, had Mr. Strasser's Minister of the Interior set out to give up his "Zickzag Course" and called statements by the Minister of the Interior "unsense". But the experiences of recent times, the word "integration treaty", teach us how the matter will proceed. We believe that once again the brutal policy of the Freedom Party will remain and that the ÖVP will fight for copyright – a truly embarrassing role that the ÖVP has chosen there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Freedom Party has now presented a package, a package that is supposed to bring security from terrorism. The respected constitutional lawyer Mayer evaluated this package in the "ZiB 3" yesterday, and I quote his assessment. He said the package is divided into three parts. The first part contradicts the Geneva Convention on Refugees and opposes human rights. The second part is constitutionally problematic, and the third part concerns applicable law. I'll tell you: Our assessment is also that this package will not bring any more security. The only thing it will bring is uncertainty. And you want to beat political change out of it! That's your real goal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: The fact that you want uncertainty is actually a bold claim, Mrs Central Secretary!]] But let us look at two details of this so-called anti-terror package of the Freedom Party! First, asylum law. The right of asylum has been a special thorn in your eyes in the last few days. We had to hear again and again shameful hatreds, especially of the Old Partyman of the Freedom Party, who was called by the asylumers in a breath with criminals and terrorists, although you know very well by the liberals that the perpetrators of the 11th. There is nothing to do with the issue of asylum law in September. Sometimes I think you might do so because it exceeds your imagination, which means escape, which situation of life means escape, in which desperate situation people have to decide on this step. For as little humanity as is contained in your proposals, we lack the imagination, and therefore we reject it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do you know what escape means? – If you listen to your remarks like this, you think: Either it's crime, or it means someone thinks they're not so sunny, I don't like it anymore today, I'm taking money from the bank account, buying me a ticket and flying somewhere else. You could see the reality yesterday in a very impressive report in the ORF mission "theme". There was a report about an Afghan refugee family who, together with her children, decided to leave her home in very uncertain times, to wander around for weeks, without medical care, with sick children, with children who had already been wounded because they had to flee without shoes. [[Abg. Murauer: It's not about this! It's about the criminals, about the terrorists and not about poor refugees!]] They have given up everything, with a few belongings they are misguided for weeks, without purpose, without security, exposed to the dangers. Everyone who has children knows that these parents obviously still find this situation better for their family than simply staying at home. And then you come and say, for example, that asylum law is intensifying, that procedures are speeding up. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Throughout Europe!]] Caritas President Küberl says that – and I think correctly – this only serves to get rid of the asylum seekers as quickly as possible. And if I look at your list and read under the title "Intensification of asylum law" "accelerate procedures", it is clear what it is all about. Of course, it would be desirable to speed up those procedures which improve the living conditions of those concerned, but you obviously do not mean that. The only thing you do with your package is no longer security, but more uncertainty, more emergencies and further steps towards the State of Surveillance.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4427	The next speaker is Mr Jung. Speaking time: also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4448	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I would like to address the contributions made by three previous speakers, first of all those of Mr Parnigoni, who criticised the Minister of the Interior and the measures taken at Schwechat Airport. I am not the official defender of Federal Minister Strasser, but I ask you, Mr Parnigoni: Would it have been better for you if Mr Strasser had acted in the way he did at the time, a Social Democratic Minister of the Interior, whose fight against terrorism in Schwechat was to shake hands with the fleeing terrorists? Would that have been better for you, Mr. Parnigoni? - No, I don't. Thank God! [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edler: Go, stop!]] Now I finally woke up the SPÖ, it was very quiet all morning. Mr Stoisits and Mr Kuntzl have criticized the fact that we dare to think about what might be rethinkable at the Geneva Convention on Refugees, asylum or Foreign Law. Well, Mrs Stoisits, if this is really so terrible and if everything is as flawless as you say, then consider the following: If Mr Osama bin Laden were to seek refuge in Austria, we would not even be able to deliver him to the USA because the death penalty is in force in the USA. Do you really want this situation to continue? - I don't think that's what you want. Finally, the measures already mentioned by the German Minister of the Interior Schily. I think that our Federal Government is very different from this Minister. Although he repeatedly has marked proposals that he uses as glues for voters, contrary to that, we will also implement our proposals and measures in order to bring more security to the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I do not have time to address the causes of terrorism and to discuss the development of the Taliban. At any rate, it is certain that fundamentalist Islam has expanded its original sphere of influence and is now using terrorist and violent means in the western cultural circle in the truest sense of the word. The fight against such religious fundamentalists and other radical ethnic groups is often financed by illicit trafficking in weapons, by nuclear, bacterial and chemical means, by radioactive material, but also by intoxication. The limits on international crime are in the process. This is facilitated, Mrs Stoisits, not least by uncontrolled migration and massive abuse of asylum. We're going to oppose both of them! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For years there has been evidence of this development, but they have not been wanted to take note of it. It was politically not opportunistic. So it was unmistakable that the war in Kosovo was financed by the fact that the Albanians in our country have collected protection funds. With these protective funds, weapons were obtained, the war was fought in the Balkans, and now we buy the same Kosovars the weapons in Macedonia that were then purchased again with our money laboriously. This is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. This war is also financed, among other things, by the intoxication smuggling via the Albania route. We know very well that the largest opium producer in the world is Afghanistan. There is a connection – a connection, as you say today so beautifully – that is unmistakable and that needs to be cut through. International cooperation and exchange of experience must contribute to this. And – even if it upsets you – the search for grids can be an effective tool in this area – I deliberately say "can" – carefully used. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We must recognise that the creation of security is a cross-ministerial task that cannot be carried out alone by the executive. The Federal Government has already carried out extensive additional security tasks in recent years: Border security, disaster aid of a new kind, carrying out extremely difficult recoverys – we think of Kaprun – special transports, explosions, deminings and, lately, ABC operations. These tasks cannot be implemented without the necessary financial resources. We must recognize that security has its price. If we do not just want to see this as a lip confession, we must give the executive the necessary resources, especially the federal army, which has been starved in the last decades. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In all the measures necessary to protect Austrians, this government will take all necessary steps to combat terrorism. We are aware: Security and freedom are in a certain area of tension and must always be carefully weighed against each other. Patent solutions are not available. Let us find the best way together, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4520	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4541	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! At the end of a discussion on security, terrorism and crime, a judgment can already be made, namely the judgment that, as security spokesperson of the Austrian People's Party, I am glad that this Federal Government, for example, that security ministers Strasser and Defence Minister Scheibner and the two parties ÖVP and FPÖ have the security agents in that country – and not red and green. Good night, Austria, if these two parties were responsible for security in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Even in the most critical consideration of what the previous speakers of the SPÖ and the Greens have said: I have not heard any concrete proposal, no consideration being given to how security in this country could be improved. [[Abg. Murauer: Unfortunately!]] In contrast, there is clear, clear and comprehensible commitment by the Federal Government, the ÖVP and the FPÖ to a national security plan, to a common procedure for the protection of the Austrian population. That's what the people want too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I don't need to quote Peter Westenthaler, but he's right to judge that red and green are spirit drivers in the field of security policy. I don't want to sit in the car, if not even the drivers know where it's going. I believe that this country is well removed with black and blue, and so it should remain. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] ==References====External links== September 2001 in the National Council as part of its presentation of a ten-point programme against terrorism and crime – I repeat it –: What is the task of politics? – The task of politics can only be to be afraid. - They're shooting her! He also said: The task of politics can only be to radiate security. – They spread uncertainty! Thirdly, he said: The task of politics is to give confidence. – I feel absolutely nothing with you! That's our answer to you! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Of course it is: Safety costs. I also have a clear commitment to the intentions as they explained by Ernst Strasser and Herbert Scheibner. If security costs if security wants to be worth something, the population also understands additional expenditure. Support for the ÖVP Parliamentary Club is safe for ministers in this context. We will do everything we can to increase the number of staff, more material, and thus the opportunities to implement these intentions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, the FPÖ proposals are also welcome. It would be abstrus, just as the previous speakers from the SPÖ and the Greens did, to wipe everything out of the table. The plan, as Minister Strasser and Federal Chancellor Schüssel presented to him in addition to one or other suggestion, is welcome. I expressly say this. And when it comes to fingerprints in the European equinox – who really can have something against it? But I would like to remember that this will be a further way. In the UK, it is not even necessary to fill out a report paper if you are to settle there. This is incredibly far from what Minister Schily has presented in Germany in these days, for example, who even wants three-dimensional photos, i.e. holograms, in passports. Between the UK, not yet Schengen, and Germany, a Schengen State, both partners in the EU, have enormous gaps. That is what it means to do together in the European equinox. In Austria, I think, this federal government is in the same tone. That is also true and important. If Ernst Strasser says that he is the one who will make sure that the "cobra" reaches every place in Austria in 70 minutes and is ready to work there, this is one of the answers to a real concept. If there are investigative networks that are against terrorism, organised crime and security, that is the right concept. Safety costs. I can only say who fears – and we want to take fear – who radiates security – and we will radiate security – and those who give confidence will ultimately also have the confidence of the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4632	Mrs Mag. Lunacek. After this speech, the current hour will end. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4653	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Gaining confidence in the population – against this there is nothing to do with it. We are also, that is necessary. But, Mr. security spokesperson of the ÖVP, there You think the population at Black-Blue is well removed and that you are radiating safety, I'm telling you what the car you're driving in is like: [[Call the ÖVP:Yes! Right!]] There, the liberals sit at the wheel and drive in a direction that aims to undermine the Geneva Refugee Convention. And you, the ÖVP, say no first, Minister Strasser says first: No, we don't! But then everyone climb in the same car and continue as a ghost driver in this direction. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Can you explain this?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser]] – This is anything but safety. That's uncertainty! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the same way, if the security spokesman of the liberals speaks of it as possible that if in Austria... [[Abg. Böhacker: Security spokesperson in, please!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: What do you have against Mrs. Partik-Pablé?]] - Excuse me, Mr Wehrsprecher Jung, it would be terrible if Osama bin Laden were given asylum in Austria, because then he could not be delivered to the United States. [[Abg. Böhacker: A little more precise!]] Mr. Jung! Faith Do you really think that a suspected mass murderer would be asylum anywhere in the world? – What you do is uncertainty. That is uncertainty and no security! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But I would like to try to bring the discussion to a slightly different level, namely to those who, in a contribution by a Jewish and a Palestinian peace researcher in yesterday's issue of the "standard" which both in Vorarlberg meant at a conference that peace needed a common language. This applies both to our domestic policy and to the world-wide, foreign-political situation. This common language, ladies and gentlemen, is also not available within the Federal Government, as I showed at the outset. This is where those who fear prejudices, those who, like the simple member of the party from Carinthia, demand that asylum seekers be sent back to their continent, those who do not even want to tolerate them until the end of the asylum procedure in Austria, and those who, as has already been said, are trying to disregard the Geneva Convention on Refugees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker]] What measures would be taken for those people living in Austria? – These are not only those with Austrian passports, but they are probably also those who have been living in Austria for years and decades and who have not yet had any rights, for example not the right to vote in business council elections or in municipal elections. You agree with what you specify as an integration agreement that you have any rights to do! The common language, however, also needs a foreign peace policy, but it is not visible either. Where, then, is the concept for a modern neutrality policy, which sees neutrality as an opportunity in a European security system to prevent conflicts, as Minister Scheibner said at the outset? That would be the great opportunity, and it has nothing to do with what Mr Murauer meant first, namely that the Greens are neutral towards terrorism. Mr Murauer, you probably didn't really understand what our position was. [[Abg. Murauer: So far you have only fought, and the government has acted! That's the difference!]] Neutrality against terrorism cannot exist, but whether war is being waged in the form of it, and whether what you are proposing here are right solutions to avoid terrorism, we dare to doubt it – and not just us, but very many people in this country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But to become quite specific, because someone first meant that we didn't say anything specific: Where are the concrete activities of the Federal Government? Minister Scheibner! I very much agree with you when you demand that we act in a preventive manner outside the European Union. But why have you not yet proposed setting up a Refugee Field Hospital in Pakistan from Austria, similar to the Gulf War 1991 and Kosovo? – This now does Norway with the support of the Austrian Red Cross. Why not Austria, why not, Minister? – This would be a concrete activity to help people live in the country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Scheibner.]] Why is Austria no longer paying money to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees? There money is very urgently needed to carry out such work! The only thing that happens is: The Austrian consulate in Islamabad had been blocked for over a week, and no refugee could make an asylum application there. No one has been recognized by those who have sought refugee status in Islamabad or Tehran in recent years. No chance! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That's the wrong way. We are very well - as my colleague Stoisits has already said - for security measures, but the discussion of where terrorism comes from...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4807	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4823	... – This is my final sentence – is different from what the "simple party member" Haider said. This debate must be held, and we will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4853	This explains the current hour, as planned, after more than 70 minutes for finished. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4874	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to that written communication which was distributed to all Members in the Chamber. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5231	In accordance with Article 74a of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee of the Socialists and Democrats requested the self-employed at the same time to treat at least with the inflation rate the self-employed amendment tabled by Mr Bures and Mr Genossins (E) concerning the adjustment of pensions. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which you all know, this urgent request will be raised at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2503/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5255	I would also like to say that I have a request based on § 92 of the Rules of Procedure and that I have a brief debate on the question of questioning 2503/AB by the Minister of Agriculture on questioning Mr Mag. 2571/J. Sima concerning the release of gene seed in Austria's fields. As we have just determined, at 3 p.m., the debate on a urgent request will take place at the end of the debate on the urgent request. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5279	As far as today's agenda is concerned, I would like to sum up the debate on points 1 to 4 and points 7 and 8. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. We'll do that. We are now going into the agenda for today's sitting. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5307	We reached consensus in the Presidential Conference on the duration of the debates: A day block time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, which in detail gives rise to the following speaking times: SPÖ 176 minutes, liberals and ÖVPs each 131 minutes and greens 104 minutes. In addition, with a view to the direct transmission of the debate by 1 p.m. offered by Austrian broadcasting, the political groups had agreed to: In the debate that follows, there should first be one speech per group of 8 minutes each, then, if necessary, two words from the government side with a maximum of 10 minutes each. A further round of discussions will follow with opinions from each political group of 8 minutes and, where appropriate, a maximum of two further statements by members of the government with a maximum of 10 minutes. A consensus has also been reached on the possibility of making use of the business regulation, while the direct transmission on television calls for actual corrections to be postponed to the end of the debate. The House has to decide on the first part of this communication, namely the day-block period of 9 "Vienna hours" and its division. I therefore ask: Are there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. This has been decided unanimously. 1. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 505/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Ing. Peter Westenthalerund Comrades concerning a Federal Act establishing a National Security Council and amending the 1990 Wehrgesetz (809 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law, with which the Federal Act of 29 December 1989 was adopted. It will be amended in June 1989 on the establishment of a Council on issues relating to Austrian integration policy and the War Material Act (810 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (565 of the Supplements): Federal Constitutional Act on the conclusion of the Treaty of Nice (807 of the Supplements) 4. Point Constitutional Committee Report on the Government Template (622 of Supplements): Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (808 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5395	We come to points 1 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no wish for oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. The speaking time agreed is 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5425	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With today's debate, our ratification process on the Treaty of Nice begins. The main part of the Treaty is the institutional conditions for the enlargement of the European Union. And if the most important reason for enlargement is that we want to expand the zone of peace and stability in Europe, there has been since 11. A number of additional reasons are needed to enable us to tackle the enlargement of the European Union without delay and with great commitment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has been shown that there must be political, economic and social conditions for peace and stability, and there is probably no part of the earth in which these conditions have been created as sustainable as in Europe since 1945. And if the opportunity, which has been open since 1989, to extend this peace experience to Central and Eastern Europe is realized, then, I believe, we are actually contributing to limiting the geographical and regional scope for destabilisation activities. Therefore, the enlargement of the European Union is also a contribution to restricting manoeuvring space for subnational, terrorist and nationalist forces, and therefore, from the security point of view, enlargement is crucial. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we create these institutional conditions, we should not at the same time deny that there are a number of still unresolved problems in the negotiations, a number of unresolved problems that need to be solved satisfactorily until the conclusion of the negotiations. In this context, of course, it is very important for the Austrian population to see what the future of the Temelin nuclear power plant looks like and whether the Austrian Federal Government was able or is able to fulfil all the conditions laid down by the Austrian National Council in a joint resolution. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On this issue too, we Socialists are in favour of not playing with fallen cards, but of the Austrian Parliament and the Austrian people having a full right to know: Are there binding agreements with the Czech Republic concerning temelin? Is there a conclusion to the milking process? And: Are the safety requirements that the Austrian population wants met with regard to the Temelin nuclear power plant? Federal Chancellor! You have the opportunity today to inform the House of your negotiating results, because the Austrian people want security on this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the negotiations after the 11th. It also agreed on the use of a National Security Council, a National Security Council to improve coordination between the various parts of the government and Parliament and achieve the highest possible degree. We have decided on this National Security Council because it is intended to provide a platform for discussing and developing issues of foreign policy and security interest together. I think that such a common platform across the party borders is a very, very important institution, but I believe that ladies and gentlemen, if we decide to set up such a Security Council, this should also be effective. And if in the course of the debate on the 11th. In September we discussed the need for an external policy strategy on the Middle East, I pointed out at the last plenary debate that there is now a similar opportunity to post 1945, to stage something like a Powell plan for the Middle East, when the Federal Chancellor spoke of a Marshall Plan for the region, then, I believe, it is the minimum if one decides on this common ground that there is a common foreign policy concept for the Middle East and that the President of the Federal Government does not have to learn about the activities of the Federal Government from the newspapers. Ladies and gentlemen! Such a concept would have been urgently needed. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The credibility of our country depends on a common occurrence on this issue. I have already pointed out the last time that it would be necessary and appropriate for all internal political conflicts that can and must exist on matters of social policy, economic policy and a number of other issues to try to achieve as broad a consensus as possible, especially in an international crisis situation on issues of foreign and security policy. We have this consensus in principle regarding the Middle East policy of the Middle East, we have this consensus on the establishment of the National Security Council, but we do not have this consensus when it comes to coordinating the various activities in the Middle East and the Middle East. We do not have this consensus when it comes to adapting FPÖ's exuberant proposals in the field of security policy, because this kind of security policy does not lead to greater security for Austrians, but to a restriction on the freedom of Austrians. And we reject that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jung said a correct sentence in the previous debate, which was also much more modest than that of Mr Westenthal. Mr Westenthaler meant that everything the government is doing was wisdom to the last conclusion, and he who does not support it bears responsibility for the uncertainty. Mr Jung said that the government, too, could not take advantage of the fact that all that is proposed here is the final conclusion of wisdom and that it is about jointly developing the right measures to increase security. I agree with this thesis of this statement, because what has happened in recent weeks in this context was panic, which has led to a security-political activism that insures the Austrian population and no longer gives it security. Ladies and gentlemen! We need security – and not uncertainty of the population!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5534	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5555	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Gusenbauer, are you all serious about the fact that our 13 points or the government's programme, all the proposals on the table on internal security, bring less security instead of more security? [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] That's what you're saying? The difference between our concept and your ideas and concepts on security is actually quite clear. Look at this. [[the speaker shall present a fully described sheet]] For example, this is the FPÖ anti-terror package with the 13 points. And now I'm showing you the SPÖ-Anti-Terror package. [[the speaker holds an empty sheet of paper in height]] That's an empty paper because there's no such thing from you! The real problem is that you are making yourself here and condemning everything in Bausch and Bogen – also what your party colleagues in Germany, in Great Britain, have announced. But you have not mentioned any of the SPÖ's own proposals on internal security, because you have resigned on this subject, Mr Gusenbauer! That is the crucial point. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You have no ideas in security policy, and that is why you cannot present them today. This is really sad, because a party like SPÖ should also think about it, should bring in ideas, ideas that could then be discussed at the National Security Council. Thank God we decide together today to this National Security Council. I very much welcome this, because it also shows that, on a very crucial issue, it has been the most important consensus since 4. There's February 2000 in this house. This National Security Council is a new response to the new threats. Security is no longer only seen in isolation, divided into different policy areas, but security will be considered comprehensively in the future. It no longer raises the question: Is foreign policy coming before defence policy or security policy in between, in the back or in the front, above or below, but it is now clear that this body, in the National Security Council, is about an Austrian security concept. This is to be welcomed, and I therefore also welcome the consensus of all four parties, including the opposition. That is a good thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The National Security Council will, of course, streamline the procedures in the future and also increase efficiency in consultations, in coordination. This will also allow for rapid action in crisis cases, and the Austrians will be able to rely in the future that their security is in good hands, that their security is guaranteed, because in this National Security Council not only the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor are represented, but also the Security Ministers of the Government, Minister of the Interior, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Justice and, of course, the Minister of Defence, as well as representatives of the House and experts, will look like this body. This is security policy in the national interest, to protect the population and also the public institutions. Security policy will also be discussed in this Council with the various parliamentary groups to be equal in that area. I am also in favour of this National Security Council meeting very quickly. The first meeting of the National Security Council should be held very quickly if we have decided on it and then the relevant legislative paper is available in order to discuss these burning issues and the new ideas in this context. A survey by the "market" institute shows what reforms the population wants: 82 per cent want a network of police, 66 per cent of the monitoring of financial transactions, 58 per cent a strengthening of asylum law, Mrs. Stoisits, 50 per cent an expansion of the powers of the police, which we will also decide tomorrow, 45 per cent – almost every other – also new identification systems. The National Security Council, together with some of the points that are also included in our 13-point programme, should, of course, also advise the population on these reforms, such as closer international cooperation on the fight against terrorism, qualitative and quantitative upgrading of the special forces of executives and federal forces to combat terrorist organisations and to counter so-called subconventional threats, the expansion of the ABC defence capacity and the protection of space and property, as the Minister of Defense has already done. This National Security Council should also – this is very important! – take on board the current civil and civil protection plans and carry out an evaluation of whether they are still suitable for the given situation since 11. In fact, it takes account of September. If that is not the case, you must adapt it to ensure the protection of the population, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The implementation of a rapid Europe-wide exodus scenario from nuclear power is also a point of our 13-point programme, and there will also have to be discussions on this – here in this House, too, with all the political groups, because all four parties have agreed to a request in this House. It clearly defines the conditions under which Austria should not agree to the energy chapter with the Czech Republic and clearly express its opinion. There should therefore be a further development of this position. But there is also – and this must not be forgotten – a corresponding popular desire that has been brought in. In January, the Austrians will be able to express themselves as part of this popular desire. They will be asked whether a veto should also be possible to prevent or delay the operation of temelin. The outcome of this popular desire should be indicative, and it is therefore good that there has been this initiative, an initiative that is of course worthy of support, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is important that all parties have clear concepts, and in this respect I am really not sure with the Greens. That's what it's all about, and it's got to be said. They do not really know how to define internal and external security with all consensus and with all consent to the National Security Council. Perhaps this is also a reason why Professor Van der Bellen today does not appear in the list of speakers that he no longer speaks to us on these crucial issues. What the Greens have told the people in the overflight debate is already tremendous! They say that overflight debate is a case of neutrality, so the Americans cannot fly over Austria; but if they fly over Austria, then we can't do anything either. – This is a very strange logic, a logic that no one can understand. If you put this to the road traffic regulations, that would mean: There is a legal system in Austria, but the Greens would say if a few left and it "turns" doesn't do it either. There are laws, but if they are not observed, it doesn't matter. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! God protects Austria from a government participation of these Greens!, one can only say, because there must be such decisions. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] I hold it with Mr Voggenhuber, who says that this position is damaging the governance of the Greens. It is politically non-sustainable, even objectively and legally. The Greens are isolated throughout Europe. I am glad that they are not in the government with us, because then not only the Greens throughout Europe would be isolated, but all of Austria would be isolated throughout Europe, and we do not want to do so. That is why we are glad that you are not in the government on security issues, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, because that would be bad. Overall, I think, today's decision to install a National Security Council is a really good decision. I hope that new ideas will come, and I invite everyone to bring in these ideas. Above all, I also invite the SPÖ to finally develop new ideas and participate in the security debate. That would be urgently necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5696	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5718	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To maintain peace and ensure the security of our citizens has become our most important task, and we are therefore fully committed to this service of our fellow citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We want to give confidence and fear. Therefore today, in a rare unanimity with important laws, the National Council will decide on two peace projects, two contributions to peace. Firstly, the authorisation is given that the Treaty of Nice can be concluded in which the European Union, the largest peace project of our time, is strengthened, expanded and deepened. This is a peace project. The other project is the establishment of a National Security Council. It is a long-standing demand that can become a reality now because all the political groups in this House have understood that we must work together in security policy in the service of the people of that country and will act together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The enlargement of the European Union is a project that creates security and peace. Why? Firstly, we will be surrounded by a belt of peaceful, closely connected and closely cooperating states. That is, the area of security has expanded enormously for us, and that is a good thing. And the second: Europe has always needed external pressure to grow together more internally. What was not possible for many years – the cooperation of the Interior Ministers, the cooperation of the Justice Ministers, where, in reality, the cantonist has always ruled: We cannot have a European arrest warrant, we cannot unite border protection, we cannot let the services work together! –, that's now, after the 11th. September, under the challenge of unprecedented attack on freedom and democracy on that September day as blown away. We will be able to expand the Union in the service of the security of our fellow human beings. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will move the common EU external border far from Austria to the east, to the south and to the north, so that in the foreseeable future we can save ourselves a lot of things at our borders, which today cost us a lot of money, money that is currently absolutely necessary and well established in the service of our security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we will finally decide on the Security Council, the instrument that will allow opposition and government to have the same basic and important information on the questions: Where do the threats come from? What will we do about threats? How will we react together if there are further crises – God is supposed to prevent that?, an instrument that will enable us to react together. I am glad that we have found a consensus on this, which promises a lot for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Here is my appeal to the Social Democrats and the Greens, namely that this first swallow of consensus on important security issues does not remain the last, because we know: A swallow doesn't make any spring yet. [[Call the SPÖ:Summer!]] I am thinking of how critical the Security Doctor was seen, even before we even started the negotiations, of the fact that the vice-president of the S & D Democrats, Heinz Fischer, immediately comes back on what was proposed here and sends the swallow back into the past. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] Don't laugh, Mr. Gusenbauer. – It is past that the Petersberg tasks of the Peace Foundation of the European Union are suddenly to be put into another constitutional situation, as the fisherman did in the "Kurier". – This is a swallow in the past and not a swallow in the spring of a greater security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The common European foreign, security and defence policy is the future. We have always agreed on this, including the Greens and the Social Democrats, and I think that in the negotiations we are now beginning, we should negotiate openly and over prejudices, because people in our country have the right to find a common security line that is borne by all parties. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Federal Government, Wolfgang Schüssel presented a comprehensive peace and security programme of the Federal Government at our last meeting, and I am very pleased that a first part of the cooperation has already been presented by our Minister of Security, Mr Ernst Strasser, our Minister of State for Defence Scheibner and our Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer. It is an important programme, and we will carry it out consistently, because there is no contrast between freedom and security, ladies and gentlemen. I do not have to tell you, the Social Democrats, who you have always said: What's the poor man got when he's free? What's the insecure thing about when he's free? Security in freedom – this is our concept! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are signs of hope at this truly sad time, namely, signals of hope that in the United Nations we suddenly see the international security system effective, that suddenly Russia, China, the former victors, the five permanent powers of the Security Council, are working together and these international actions are working against terror. I also hope that the Greens, Mr Van der Bellen, will start a process of louting, that they will see that the world community is standing up against terrorism and will not be called into question on account of its small, unolidarian behavior. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The future, ladies and gentlemen, is marked by a magic word, which also applies to domestic policy: Solidarity of democrats is required, solidarity in the interests of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5828	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. The watch is also set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5850	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me question one of the animal kingdoms: Two swallows don't make sure yet. And if you, Mr Khol, and you, Mr Westenthaler, sail through the air without touching the opposition, crawl on the ground and "Foul!"screaming, I ask you to: Leave the swallows and start the joint work on the security doctor! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you start to discuss seriously, do not break down negotiations over and over again, do not submit new papers, do not react as parliamentarian to every whistle of the Federal Chancellor, but negotiate You're with us the way we originally did and how we're still talking about you as an opposition. Stop the swallows! Start working, and do it the way we did at the Security Council. It was reasonable to set up in time and create an institution that we need in the interests of the security of Austria. But why is this time only? Why is it only once, and why does security policy look different otherwise? Why don't you go to Parliament and negotiate in good time? You? Why Saying Before: We need an anti-terror package in which 8 million fingerprints from Austria stand at the centre!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With your policy you won't come any further!]] Mr Westenthaler! They still owe people in this Republic the answer to the question of why the fingerprints of all Austrian pensioners should help to catch Osama bin Laden. I don't know. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What do you have to hide?]] The only fingerprint you don't have is that of Osama bin Laden. And if you have to catch it by fingerprint, you probably have to use it as a citizen, so that it will have to print a fingerprint in Austria in the sense of your new terrorist laws. Mr Westenthaler! Much of your package is simple and simply unscrupulous, but much is illegal to human beings and much is unconstitutional. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have no package at all!]] Even if there is a crisis situation and the concern of people in Austria deserves to be taken seriously, that is no reason to announce the rule of law, the constitution and human rights. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The terrorists not only have people, they have also attacked the rule of law and democracy, and that is why it is so important not to attack the rule of law and democracy from within, but to strengthen and defend them. These are our real tasks. Ladies and gentlemen! The people in Austria expect us and, in particular, expect the Federal Government to take real initiatives to increase security and to fight terrorism effectively. I wonder in the last few days and weeks if she's really serious about this. Faith You really do, it is enough in the eyes of the international public when the Austrian Federal Government says here in Vienna: Great, overflights, we are full of solidarity!, and in a race all the Emirates, all the states of the Middle East, to China and the USA are visited without any equal? Is the race: Who is the first to visit somewhere – the Foreign Minister, the Federal Chancellor or the Federal President? really the most important thing you have to do right now? Does a sword dance by the President of the Federal Republic of Saudi Arabia really help fight terrorism? Ladies and gentlemen! It's about something completely different: With winter break-in – and after that, the High Commissioner for Human Rights has given us the Drawn attention to the United Nations – tens of thousands of people in Afghanistan are threatening the death of freezing. Do you think the war can simply be carried on and taken into account in such a way that the price for this war may be tens of thousands of innocent dead? Where is the great Austrian initiative to combat the refugee phenomenon, to interrupt the bombing after the High Commissioner's call? Where's all this? Where is the money, where are the millions, where are the billions? Where's the generous help? Where's the engagement? Where is an initiative for the future of Afghanistan? The Alliance under the leadership of the United States states that the regime there is being overthrown. – This is a source of hope for the Afghan population. But should the regime be replaced by the next US-friendly militia, or do we not need a United Nations transitional administration to enable a democratic alternative in Afghanistan? And where is the Austrian initiative? Where is the Austrian commitment? – The race between the Federal President, Chancellor and Foreign Minister for photos, motor boat rides in the Red Sea and sword dances is probably not the initiative we are waiting for. What happens when using chemical and biological weapons? What is being done to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction? How are Austrian laws amended so that certain countries with close proximity to international terrorism no longer receive Austrian bioreactors, no more agricultural chemicals? Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government and of the Coalition! They owe us these answers. I honor the joint outcome of the National Security Council. This is no more than an institution at present. I pay tribute to the clear commitment of at least part of the Federal Government to the peace project Easter enlargement. This is at least a political security for a party. But now it is about showing concrete solidarity – not just to praise from Austrian soil, but really to do something: to help people and to fight terrorism in concrete terms. That would be the Austrian solidarity, which I have unfortunately expected to be a little in vain from this federal government, but perhaps there will still be a swallow on it today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5938	The next speaker is Mr. Federal Chancellor. The speaking time is agreed with 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5959	Mr President. High house! I thank Mr Pilz for asking a number of questions. It is up to the Federal Government to respond. The division of work works, as I mean, also very well: They ask the questions – we provide the solutions. I can live with that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But coming seriously: I would like to thank all four groups very much for the fact that some very important decisions can be taken together today. The National Security Council, which is of course in many European and non-European countries, is now jointly decided after some discussions. This is a good basis for our being able to solve so important questions together. I am also very grateful for the fact that today – hopefully in common – the decision on the first stage of the ratification of the Nice Treaty takes place, namely the Federal Constitutional Act, which allows the ratification of the Treaty as such in one month. Since you asked me before the Ghent European Council – it was not a Council, but it was a meeting of the Heads of Government – to take up some positions there, which are also represented in a joint resolution today, I can tell you: All the points are settled by common accord, namely a wide-ranging convention model, the involvement of all parliamentarians, namely the European Parliament and the national parliaments. The participation of the enlargement candidates is common and a broad mandate we want to discuss. The schedule is also clear: The start will be early next year. This Convention will be concluded by June 2003 with the development of solutions in consensus or options. Then the Intergovernmental Conference begins. – The position of the Austrian parliamentarians has therefore been fully enforced. I thank you for this support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I believe that many individual measures against terrorism are completely beyond dispute. The major parties have approved the overflight rights. I also think it is a matter of course in the present day that we are acting in solidarity in the fight against terrorism, based on a clear mandate from the UN Security Council. The Taliban regime is only recognised by three individual states – two have now withdrawn their recognition – but not by the United Nations. It is therefore important that we appear very clearly and clearly there. Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to address Dr. Gusenbauer here. The things I didn't like at all were the words "Pankmache" and "Afraid to do". – We certainly don't panic. We do not spread fear and uncertainty, but at a difficult time we try – show Dr. Gusenbauer, not with our finger elsewhere – as I hope together to offer security, although this is not always easy, believe me. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Westenthaler!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As you are talking about security and uncertainty, I would like to say very clearly here: Who is spreading security here, if not we, if we say openly that today the fight of the Taliban, the fight of the Osama bin Laden, is financing the terrorist networks through international drug trafficking, that 90 percent of the internationally available raw opium is being grown in Afghanistan?- Oh, my God! Those who express these dangers and do something about them do not spread uncertainty, but help to ensure that the fight is not financed elsewhere at the expense of our young people's lives and health. And it is important that people see this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is equally important to see that a booming international trade in human beings is being conducted, especially with Afghan refugees. I just remember the events in front of Australia. This has become a billion-dollar business today. And it is our job to give security in the region. They ask: What's happening? – Yes, Mr Pilz, do you not read the international reports? For the moment, the European Union has provided a total of 4.4 billion Schilling, and the Austrian contribution is not negligible, but at least 100 million Schilling in the EU budget – and 25 million Schilling from our own budget once again. That's what you want to call "nothing"?- Oh, my God! – At least we believe that this is generous! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Who, then, spreads security or uncertainty, if not the one who – as we do – punishes the riders who are now trying to do their business with fear with this anthrax hysteria, by increasing the penal framework?- Oh, my God! I would like to express my express thanks to the Minister of Justice for his initiative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We must take fear of people – and not cause fear! It is equally clear between the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice that there must be no banking secrecy for terrorists that the banks have reporting obligations. It is in the interest of the Austrians to give safety. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Similarly, for state-political reasons, we also properly equip the executives and do not push the federal army to the brink. We bought helicopters – and that was a state-political necessity. We do not leave the Austrian airspace unprotected and do not leave others to guarantee our airspace sovereignty to respect – or not. We have ensured through the tender that Austria can at least guarantee safety on land and in the air with its possibilities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And that's better than the egg dances you perform from the opposition. On the question of nuclear power stations. I say quite frankly here that we have achieved a great deal in this regard, and I also ask you very openly: Do not go away from these common platforms, because it was Austrians – and we can be proud of it together – who have at all made the EU aware that the topic of nuclear power plants close to the border is a European issue! We have achieved with our insistence that three nuclear power plants now have to be shut down – that is already accepted by the candidate countries – that further nuclear power plants receive more security investments and safety equipment, including Mochovce, Temelín or Krško – through more seismic studies, early warning systems and, and so on. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have reached through the back door – at first the other Member States did not want to do so at all – that in any case there are Europe-wide security standards for the enlargement countries: through the working party on nuclear safety, via the "atomic demand group", over all that we have achieved together through persistent action. And now it is about fixing this in a Treaty of Accession, in a chapter of accession, binding on the future, no matter who the owner or operator of such a nuclear power plant is. I therefore invite you that, based on this dialogue, we have, of course, not yet produced tangible results... – By the way, the letter you quoted before the journalists, Mr Gusenbauer, is different from what you have said to journalists, not the sentence that the experts are ready. He contains the statement that now the experts complete... – On Thursday afternoon he came, that is also known. [[Abg. Arbitrator: When did he get in?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why Verheugen is so evil!]] You have the letter long ago, excitement is unnecessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The letter did not even come in the original. But please, I don't mind if Dr. Gusenbauer wants to go to the press with this; it's okay with him. Only if, then quote correctly. It's not inside that everything's done. It is inside – and this is very important – that the time is now ripe for the experts to prepare the degree. And that's exactly what it's all about. And that is where we need the guidance and support of all the parliamentarians, a common line that Austria can represent so that we can represent a maximum level of security credible to the public. You are cordially invited to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The last point is also a bit strange. Let us stick together to the line that was represented in the Foreign Policy Committee and everywhere: that we want to be active in this peace process in the Middle East. And I really think it is great that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defense, the Minister of the Interior, I myself, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, that we use our possibilities at the respective level. Of course, the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Defence are talking to his colleagues. One important thing is – and I very much believe that I also live – that we inform each other. In any event, I can take advantage of wherever I go, I inform my colleagues in government and, of course, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. I hope that will be common practice. If you drive, Mr Gusenbauer, then you get the same information as anyone else, the other clubs, all are invited. A red and white consensus in the area of peace in the Middle East and greater stability in the world would be highly desirable.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6124	Mr Scheibner spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6146	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen at the Intergovernmental Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a good day for a common security policy, where, as I believe, we will take a unanimous decision on the implementation of a National Security Council. I hope and expect that this National Security Council will also be in practice in line with what we have all expected from such a body for Austrian security for many years together. It must be more than the summary of the previous councils, it must be more than the further development of a national defence council. Rather, this National Security Council must be a body for a comprehensive, as objective as possible, security policy debate on the framework conditions of our security and threat scenarios and also on the measures necessary to ensure the safety of our country and our people as possible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the Security Council, it should also be noted that security policy is to be seen comprehensively: in addition to the military component, also the component of internal security, the component of justice, but also the component of foreign policy. We see it in the discussions over the past few weeks that it is now clear to everyone that after the end of the Cold War there are no more threats, but that there are only other threats than before, threats which are diverse, which we have to face in a comprehensive manner and with which we must come to terms with, as closely as possible, with all the institutions in Austria, but also at the international level dealing with security and security policy. I assume and hope that this consensus for the creation of a National Security Council is only a first step towards a national consensus on security policy as a whole, because this national consensus is important and is normally characterised by democracies. In Austria, we have unfortunately had to miss this consensus in recent years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yes, Mr Klubobmann Khol, I too have painfully noted in the opposition that the opposition is not always involved in important security policy issues. We have agreed in the new Federal Government that we want to involve the opposition when the opposition is ready. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I wasn't against it!]] As Minister of Defense, I agree with this principle that we want to involve all political forces, but also all social groups in this national consensus, and also when these groups are willing to do so. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I hope they're ready to do that. It has already been said here: I see with those who, for example, are dealing with the Security Doctrine in the Subcommittee that I am quite prepared for this consensus. I hope that they will prevail and that those who are not represented in this committee will not endanger this consensus through their own ideas and other directives. This security policy debate should not be limited to the question of how much neutrality or how little NATO is necessary for Austrian security policy in the future, but we must focus on the following questions: What are the security scenarios? What are the threats? We must strive to take sufficient concrete measures, without shackles, that are necessary to eliminate these threats to us, with great unity. The next days and weeks will show whether this consensus is to be maintained and whether you can really keep all party-political players out of this important area of security in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I have said that a comprehensive security policy is necessary, then of course also an active security component in foreign policy. I did not fully understand that the activities of the Austrian Federal Government were criticized here, but also in some media. I believe that many, including representatives of the media, but also representatives of the opposition, have in the first days and weeks of the Federal Government accused it of having too little international presence that there are too few opportunities for Austrian foreign policy, including in security policy. Now you are criticizing the variety of possibilities, but also needs. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Chaos!]] This is not chaos, Mrs. Lunacek! Let us be glad that we have an excellent reputation in an important and sensitive area, such as in the Arab region, such as in the Middle East, which we now need to benefit from – it is our commitment – and that we now have this bridge function between these states, Europe and the democratic community in close cooperation and close cooperation with the European Union, but also with the United States. Mr Pilz, as you have said so salopp, the sword dance does not do anything, I say quite frankly to you: When it comes to being able to exchange security information, to end a long time of ice between Austria and, for example, Saudi Arabia in this area, and to support a billion jobs for an Austrian company, I am happy to be able to participate in a sword dance even if this is in line with the interests of security, but also the Austrian economy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I can also tell you: We are not putting ourselves in the foreground here and in the international spotlight. I can now give you information that I could not have given you a few months ago. With a lot of pomp and a great deal of attention, some European politicians have tried, for example, to establish negotiations between Palestinians and Israelis. I can tell you today that the first negotiations took place after the resumption of violence in the occupied areas here in Austria. The first negotiations on an extremely confidential basis, because there was a risk of life for the negotiators, took place in my ministry between a delegation of the Palestinians and the Israelis. – This is our function, ladies and gentlemen, without putting us in the foreground, always to give help there when it comes to offering negotiation solutions, even if it is not always possible to support a peace process. [[New congratulations to the liberals and to representatives of the ÖVP.]] If it has been criticised here that the granting of over-flight permits should have been the only measure to support these actions against terrorism, I am surprised by this accusation, because, Mr Pilz, it is your group that has seriously questioned these over-flight permits. If you are right to say that we have to work internationally and offer our intermediary position, I now ask you: What international position would we have had today if we had blocked our airspace for this international action, and perhaps even, what would have been necessary, with the interception hunters you so loved, would have monitored this overflight ban? We no longer need to discuss the importance of what opportunities we would have had for negotiations. We would have been completely outside the democratic community if we had put this action into effect. That may not be in our interest, and that is why this was not the view of the Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As in the past, we will consistently continue to pursue external policy measures in order to demonstrate and continue to take on this bridge function. However, we will also have to take the necessary measures to maintain internal security in order to protect our people. We will also have to discuss and decide, with great consequence, the need for action for the future in terms of the capacities and possibilities of our security forces. Finally, I would like to say a word about the enlargement process in Nice, which is also discussed today: This enlargement process is, of course, an important security policy factor. Europe is more than the European Union. However, this enlargement process will only work if it is implemented in accordance with clear guidelines, and the Austrian Federal Government will also ensure that the enlargement process will take place in accordance with the defined directives, both as regards the safety of nuclear power plants in our environment – an important factor – as well as the security of our constitutional and human rights standards – says Beneš decrees and AVNOJ provisions. We insist that these principles be respected. Then Europe will become a security community, and that should be our goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6250	The next speaker to speak was Mr Cap. The speaking time shall be 8 minutes in accordance with the agreement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6272	Federal Chancellor! I have with interest Your answer to the questions of Dr. Gusenbauer regarding Temelín is heard. After we have sent you a written request, I now also have the letter that Commissioner Verheugen sent to you by fax. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Addressed to you!]] But I see in it clear wording. The Commissioner says: In view of the state of accession negotiations and the attitude of other Member States, I see no longer a margin for continuing the conclusion of the milking process. Mr Bundeskanzler, regardless of the tone of this letter, which I would not like as the head of government, not even by an EU Commissioner, I have to add, you cannot now just take a stand and say: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: From a socialist!]] Yes, Commissioner, the state of the art at Temelín has now been achieved, and Temelín can now go into operation, and the agreements can now be concluded. What we expect is a clear report from you on the open points, on the ongoing disturbances, on the ongoing negotiations, and not that you are merely carrying out the Commissioner's speech in this letter, which says in another wording: The subject is now both objective and politically mature for completion. - It's almost like a dictatorship. Now I'm thinking why you weren't interested in the fact that this letter is coming to the public so quickly. No speech in the letter of the zero option, which is also part of the milking process, does not mention the exit from nuclear energy, which is now slowly beginning the discussion process in the Member States of the European Union. Instead of you forming two teams here – a team: Klestil, Scheibner and Bartenstein and the other team: Schüssel, Ferrero, who is taking part in a competition in foreign travel – it would have been better if you had visited the individual member countries of the European Union and had advertised for the end of the nuclear power exit. That's a really up-to-date problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And exit especially in the light of the 11th. September and the new forms of terror. Now, of course, it turns out that nuclear power plants are an even greater risk than they were before. And I say again: I think it is courageous what Commissioner Verheugen writes in this letter in view of the fact that one incident is hunting the other in Temelín. But this is not only about Temelín, it is all about nuclear power plants of those acceding countries which also have nuclear power plants, which still have the remaining five member states of the European Union. And there you are. Finally, we want a clear report and not that you will not let us know the content of Commissioner Verheugen's letter until now. [[Abg. Vienna: Zwentendorf!]] At the time, we were in the first position at Zwentendorf and prevented this nuclear power plant from being put into operation. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] At the time, we fought that Austria had gone the way against nuclear energy in 1978. Why you laugh now, I don't understand at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That would be a falsification of history!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Zwentendorf sends greetings!]] But we come to another point: There is now the joint anti-terrorism package, which the FPÖ has substantially decided with the ÖVP, the famous 13 points. – I would say it’s an anti-terrorist placebo, and I’ll explain it to you too. Interestingly, the real security issues are the last of your 13 points. Europe-wide exit from nuclear power is the last point. This is because you are hustling after that, because we Socialists have long called for it. The evaluation and extension of civil protection is the last point. - That's so unimportant to you. Third last point, something we have also called for and wherever you go: Increase ABC defence capacity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] For the purpose of this Regulation, the following This means that viewers: If terrorists use biological substances, chemicals, the spleen fire problem, that's the third place in your mind. It's not important to you. That's the truth. That's not important. But first of all, the intensification of asylum rights, although not one of the terrorists in America was an asylumist. They lived there, they made their tickets there, a few even had the green card so they could work there. That's your meat. They produce and say that of the approximately 18 000 to 20 000 asylum seekers in the year, of which only 17 to 20 percent are admitted, i.e. weak 1 000, i.e. where the asylum laws are really effective and very accurate... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now until you finally see Klubobmann and already again Secretary General!]] They want to "wrong" the asylumers. [[Abg. Haigermoser: such a nonsens!]] In fact, they are completely indifferent to the terrorists. [[Abg. Böhäcker: Blank nonsense!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: What solutions do you have?]] It's a package that's totally out there. That is why Mrs Partik-Pablé is right when she says: We do not say that we have the solutions! - That's what she admitted here an hour ago. Therefore: Pack the 13 points and go back! These 13 points are, in fact, also in the opinion of your own people ineffective, a placebo. But there's another concept behind that: They want the glass Austrian. That's it! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Please, what do we want?]] You want to know everything, control everything, you want the Orwell state. That's your goal, even though you're incredibly sad yourself. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Please, stop!]] We once pictured your top representatives in a magazine with their fingerprints. For this we have received a provisional order and have been sentenced. One time we did this. We have immediately received an interim order from the Commercial Court, and you have still proudly noted in a release of the Freedom Press Service, quoting this interim order [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But not because of the fingerprints!]] The fingerprints are, however, a symbol of the successful transfer of criminals. They are completely lacking in any other civil aspect, as far as is apparent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In connection with a criminal act!]] That means it's true: For you, 8 million Austrians are potential criminals! That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] By the way, you have to say: Spain has introduced fingerprints for more than 20 years, and it still has the biggest terrorist problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young]] In reality, it has not been possible to control ETA terrorism. This is placebo. – Or you want the Orwell state: They really don't want to find the terrorists at all. You want to have a fingerprint from every Austrian because you think: If only I had the fingerprint from Rosenstingl! This is probably one of the backgrounds. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have also called for the decommissioning of terrorist sources. Again we were the first. On TV we've been sitting together for four years, and I've asked you: What about the financial sources, what's going on? – That’s what you said: Yeah, we'll do that together. To this day, there has not yet been a single call date to celebrate. It would be time for us to act together as soon as possible in this area in order to get the sources of terrorist funding under control. You're too slow. Why? – They really want to "prejudice" asylumers, they suddenly demand laws that already exist. They demand immediate expulsion in the event of an act of violence or in the event of a call for violence. They now pretend that for 14 years, when SPÖ and ÖVP were in the coalition, we would have made laws to introduce anarchism in Austria, as if it were a mess at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When calling for violence, there is no disfellowshipping!]] I am surprised at the fact that you are making this happen, Mr Klubobmann Khol and Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel! I'm so surprised. I can only tell you: You're taking the wrong path!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6541	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. The speaking time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6563	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I must remind Mr Cap that, when his party was still in the government, there was far from as much common ground in the design of politics in this Republic as is the case today. Today and now, we are also debating two requests which we are once again voting together. Under this federal government, there have been more joint decisions than you were in the government at the time – as far as I can remember. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Who was that?]] But it is forgotten that you have never been able to bring together in this house. It is forgotten that this federal government is always able to reach common ground. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] We are concerned about the interests of the Austrians, so you simply need to join us because you know that this policy is in the interests of the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to remind you of the role of SPÖ in the process of exit from nuclear energy. Mr Cap! As you said today, put Kreisky away. Skill Do you remember the remarks of your ex-party chairman on the question of Zwentendorf? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who is Kreisky?]] Skill Do you remember colleagues Kreisky? . You do not, of course, know those who were behind you, who were already in the house and who broke a lance for the use of nuclear power, as did the chairman of this House, Mr Fischer. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Learn history!]] All of these were nuclear-powered proponents. And then, when this vote went out to your disfavor, you only realized that you have to scratch the curve. You just scratched this curve, as long as you were in the government, verbally. I recall Mr Vrannitzky's statement of government in 1990. He has seen one of his most important tasks in the process of getting out of nuclear energy. He said he would ensure that there would be an exit from nuclear energy in Central Europe. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Nothing was!]] In 1994 there was the next announcement: Exit from the use of nuclear energy. That was the main concern of Mr. Vrannitzky. In 1995 the same concern was expressed once again, and my colleague, climate, too, has had it in his programme. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: All empty promises!]] Mr Cap! Where are the results? Where are the results of the social-democratic exit policy? [[Abg. Böhacker:... Cap hot air!]] Mr Prammer! Where are the results of your efforts? – There was verbal acrobatics and nothing else. Under the rule, you have achieved zero results. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For this they are from the government outside!]] They have announced a great deal without ever achieving a result in terms of the exit from nuclear energy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why they left the government!]] I am glad that another government is taking care of this issue today, because this government is also bringing it a little further. As far as the Treaty of Nice is concerned, this government has done essential things, including against your will. This government has been able to reach unanimity on the essential issues. I am very glad that the negotiations in Nice have succeeded in reaching unanimity on the essential issues, especially because I had to experience once again at the weekend how to try to cross smaller states. If I look at the meeting of the so-called Great, Great Britain, France and Germany, which wanted to use the terrorist crisis to profile itself as a core Europe, I must say, I am glad that we can get this unanimity. In view of BBC's comment, I am also saying: The B-Team has now understood that it is the B-Team. – The British BBC has commented on the annoyance of EU countries not invited to the meeting! – The tripartite meeting is therefore necessary because the A-Team, Great Britain, Germany and France, would have to ensure that Europe continues to pursue a single foreign policy line in the terrorist crisis. I don't want to, just as many other Austrians don't want us to be a B team. We want to be like all other equal players in a common Europe, and that is why this Treaty of Nice – negotiated by this Federal Government – went out so well for Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have defended unanimity in essential areas, i.e. where you wanted to give up them. People in Austria need to know that. They wanted to give up Austrian sovereignty. They do not really want to strengthen the national Parliament in EU issues, they want to strengthen the European Parliament and weaken the national Parliament. Tell the people in Austria and not just in Brussels! You should also express this clearly and clearly in this debate today. We have been negotiating this resolution for a long time, and this is exactly how it should continue in Europe. Its aim is to strengthen the European Parliament and weaken the participation of national parliaments. It can't be like that! As long as the forces are so distributed as here, as long as one tries to form a core Europe, we will prevent national parliaments from being weakened. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This Parliament must still have the say. National states must continue to be the masters of the Treaties. So it is far better for the Austrian population than for us to be determined foreignly. We'll make sure it stays that way. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore also have a motion for a resolution that has been tabled together – Mr Cap will also vote in favour of it. This motion for a resolution is once again a request that takes into account the interests of the Austrians. The said application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, a four-party application on the initiative of the Federal Government and the parties represented in this Federal Government is decided in the interest of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6769	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Spindelegger is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6793	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! When you hear fellow Members Cap, you thought you were at the wrong event, because the SPÖ will today vote in favour of all the items on the agenda. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why then the excitement?]] I did not actually understand how to slide into the polemics, because I believe that if we have already found a consensus on European policy issues for which we have tried, then we should also appreciate this here in the House accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Cap! I don't want to continue on Your selective perception of the past – Mr Schweitzer has already done so – but I think you should also confess to what you have in this House. We are doing this because we believe that European policy is a matter for all the parties in this House to act in the interests of Austria. We are going ahead with this principle, and I invite you to do the same. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are actually adopting very important constitutional law novels. The one is an empowerment law, with which the Treaty of Nice can be concluded. There is, of course, the need to extend the Union, and the EIA as the European Party wants this enlargement. We stand by this because we believe and want this project of peace and prosperity to be extended to many more countries than are members of the European Union today, especially to our neighbouring countries. I think that's an objective that you can all underline. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's where you agree with your coalition partner?]] – We also have an agreement with our coalition partner, of course. Mr Schweitzer mentioned this, as did everyone else, Mr Schieder. This is a project on which this Federal Government stands and which all the parties – I hope you too – will give their approval in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, this enlargement, I believe, brings benefits to us, for Austria as a whole. But we know very well the fears and concerns of many Austrians in this context, especially the people who live on the border, regarding their jobs. The question of nuclear power plants has been raised, and the question of environmental protection, and the question of agriculture has not yet been discussed. We know about these fears and concerns, and we also do something about it. If you have observed the recent negotiations that this Federal Government has also conducted in the accession process, you know that remarkable progress has been made, for example, on the free movement of workers. A transitional period of seven years will allow not so many day commuters to flood the Austrian labour market and travel daily across the border, so that our own employees need to worry about their job. – Ladies and gentlemen! These are solutions in the interests of Austrian workers, which I really want to appreciate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If we are going to adopt a joint motion for a resolution today, as I hope, all the votes of this House, which says that we are in favour of further development of the European Union, this is a very good democratic sign also in this country, a sign of how we want to prepare the next comprehensive Treaty novels at European level, in the sense of more involvement by national parliaments, in the sense of a model of convention, in the context of which many are to go on. I think these are milestones of a common European policy that can really be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, we also have to decide on a follow-up BVG, in which, in fact, only citation changes are made. But the discussion was remarkable because it showed where there are differences. In this context, I would like to make a clear commitment by the People's Party to a common European security policy. If, ladies and gentlemen, we are already creating a common willingness force at European level, it must also be used. It makes no sense to put up 60,000 men, make an Austrian contribution and then say that this 60,000 men will only be able to be used under 25 conditions. No, we must make progress, Europe must become operational, including in security policy. In view of this, I ask colleagues from the SPÖ not to go back to the past, but also to consider progress in security policy. Acknowledge that in the last legislative period you have ratified the Treaty of Amsterdam, with which you have also given an opportunity with Article 23f of this security policy! We are in favour of a common security policy in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What we do not like at all – and I must confess it with all openness – is what the Green Group has to say on matters of security policy, on questions of so-called neutrality policy. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, it was bizarre to ask the United Nations Security Council to make a decision once again that an overflight over Austrian territory is possible. Ladies and gentlemen! We would have taken ourselves to the brink of ridiculousness if we were to take such a claim seriously. What you're telling us is also full of contradictions. They tell us on the one hand that an overflight is not possible from neutrality concerns. On the other hand, you refuse that an overflight will be controlled at all. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you want to watch with an open eye how an airplane flies across Austria if you don't even want an airspace surveillance in Austria? How do you want the ban, the You want to express yourself here, actually, to be effective? – Ladies and gentlemen! That's more than contradictory, right? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] If you think again and again about the question of neutrality, you should also focus on the question of neutrality, as it really is, because you are always quoting only part of this neutrality law. That in this neutrality law of Austria it is that we also have to defend our territory with all the means at our disposal, it will probably not be compatible with your demand for the abolition of the federal army, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Methods at the Commandment!]] Therefore, if neutrality already, then whole neutrality. We think we're going a right way. The fight against terrorism means that all must fight in solidarity against terrorism. There is no neutrality between the terrorist and the one affected. And since you are addressing refugees and questions for action in particular, I can tell you that with neutrality these measures will not be possible, but only with a common action, by financing the European Union that refugee camps are being set up directly in the region, that people will find refuge there. To bring them all to Austria would not be a solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you are of this opinion anyway, you will also explain this to Mr Pilz, who has claimed otherwise. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Does anyone want this?]] I would like to point out that the path we have taken is right. A European policy based on the consensus of all parties has a chance that Austria's voice will not only be heard in Europe, but that we can also prevail. There is much ahead of us, but there are also successes in the past, such as this seven-year transitional period for workers. If you would also support this, I believe you would contribute to a political consensus in this House and also to a political culture that we urgently need.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6931	The next speaker was Mrs Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6952	Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say a few words about the current debate before I go into my real issue, namely the post-Nizza process. According to the statements made by the various political groups on Temelin, one thing is clear to me: The differences manifest themselves in an attitude that was once uniform and more uniform than it is at present. I believe that we therefore urgently need to re-establish a common Austrian attitude across the party borders and reach a Temelin summit between the parties with the aim of an exit conference. Ladies and gentlemen! We need this urgently, because if the liberals only use Temelin to make unsustainable accusations to the other parties because of their attitude, then we will not continue on this question, especially if Temelin is to be used to block the enlargement process. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let me also say a few words on the question of security policy, which you, my colleague, have referred to. [[Abg. Böhacker: Which colleague?]] One of the key objectives, Mr Spindelegger, which I see is to maintain a novel in this new development, namely the global coalition against terrorism and not against the State of Afghanistan and, above all, against the people of Afghanistan. The Security Council must play a key and central role in this respect, because there must be involvement. Above all, the people of Afghanistan, especially women who have suffered for years, must be helped. [[Abg. Kiss: Who are you telling?]] This must also be clearly and clearly signalled by an Austrian security policy, which is security policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Who are you telling?]] But now on the subject of Nice contracts and post-Nizza process. [[Abg. Kiss: Tell your own clubman!]] The question of enlargement was not rightly referred to as a security-political European project, and we Greens too have called for this attitude on the enlargement issue from the very beginning. [[Abg. Kiss: You can say that to Van der Bellen!]] The Nice agreements themselves, ladies and gentlemen, were bad. They have been a bad sign of the working capacity of Intergovernmental Conferences, and only the agreement on the post-Nizza process can at all enable someone who wants and demands democratisation in Europe to agree to these Treaties and the post-Nizza process in the form of a convention model. This is a cornerstone of Europe's policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The result of Nice was really the much quoted Europe of the Princes of the Reich, and the goal of democratization of Europe was far from missed. This democratisation is not self-evident, but a prerequisite for a broad identification of citizens with this Europe, which is to become a security policy, a peace-making policy and a decent Europe. There is now an agreement on a four-party proposal on the model of the Convention, and not least on the initiative of the Greens, the four parties in this House could agree on the Austrian position to be taken on the issue of the Convention on the development of a more democratic Europe. Through the use of the Greens, this topic has been clearly and clearly articulated by four parties. There was a compromise here which, I believe, is satisfactory for all of us. However, it was not possible in the main committee, for example – in this respect, Mr Bundeskanzler, for example – to produce a binding opinion on this matter, which I think is a self-esteem of the main committee by the government groups. This is an attitude which I cannot, in any case, tolerate and accept in particular in European policy concerns. The fact that even Mr Khol has risen to the point that there should be no debate on what is being negotiated in Ghent is a further disillusionment of the democratic level's main committee in Europe's policy, I would say. Mr President, I should like to thank You were on the wrong foot, and I have to blame you for that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! Now to you: At the Ghent Council – you described the reports a little different from what I had been told – you did not represent with God this attitude that we now jointly decide on, but rather carried an extremely restrictive attitude to the Convention, which, for example, does not satisfy the issue of results or options at the end of the Convention process, in accordance with our resolution, which in turn wants to give the Heads of Government greater and stronger rights to adapt to a Europe of governments and not a Europe of parliaments and a Europe of the population. [[Abg. Grossruck: He was there!]] [[Abg. Kiss: Who do you know? Now tell me who you know!]] [[Abg. Kiss: You are a fairy taler!]] That, Mr Bundeskanzler, you, you have to respect this resolution, will now have to be represented differently in the no longer informal Council. I hope you will also take note of this broad agreement, rethink your position, as it was described to me, and make a change in position towards democratization and the model of the Convention. [[Abg. Kiss: Who told you that? Why don't you give a simple answer to a simple question?]] [[Abg. Kiss: Who?]] The objective must be a genuine Convention, which will lead to democracy in the process, the role of national parliaments and the role of the European Parliament in relation to governments, the Commission and the Council. Governments are not allowed to secure a decision-making monopoly that will throw back the democratic idea of Europe again for years to come. Federal Chancellor! I call on you to respect the content of this joint resolution, on which I attach great importance, and to represent it with all due respect at the next Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7134	Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7156	Mr President. High house! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! ==References== September has changed the world. The American Foreign Minister Powell recently said that not only Communism has ended, but now the post-communist period has also ended. That is to say, apart from the anti-terrorism front, we currently have a very great opportunity for many diplomatic and political initiatives, which we see in the various bodies, but of course, especially in the European Union. I was the first foreign minister to leave immediately after the European Council in the Middle East to deliver our news directly to the Syrians, Jordanians and Egyptians. I have contributed to the fact that the Syrians are carefully part of this anti-terrorism front today. I believe it is also important to have clearly said that it is not, of course, a conflict between the Western world and the Arab world, between Christians and Muslims, but rather a struggle of civilized against the uncivilized world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It has been important to hear from the Arab countries that the Middle East peace process must continue at all costs, because this conflict is at the same time a pretext and a breeding ground for terror. There are a number of other essential front states, neighbouring states, which are to be particularly cared for by us in this matter. I'm thinking of Central Asia. Remember: Last year, as the OSCE chairman, I tried to make a special focus in this Causa, but it was partly not properly perceived. Today it turns out that this was a forward-looking policy. I am thinking, for example, of the Tashkent Summit, in which we have for the first time, together with the UN, dealt with issues of terrorism, drug trafficking and organised crime. This negotiation process is now continuing. The next OSCE Presidency, held by Romania, is now holding a conference in Bishkek. The expertise I have acquired on these questions I will now bring in on my next major Central Asia journey, which I plan to undertake for the next time. I have just returned from Japan, ladies and gentlemen, and there too, within the framework of the coordination we are making in the European Union, I was able to bring a message from the Presidency, namely that of working together within the United Nations. For example, the UN Convention on the Suppression of Japan's Money laundering needs to be ratified. This is the only way we have the opportunity today to bring in our foreign policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Tomorrow I'm in France. There too, a vote within the partners, but also on the outside, is a very essential task. This also applies to the United Nations. The UN week, which has been postponed, will soon take place, and I too will be there, of course, and above all I will address one point for Austria: As you know, in addition to the Drug Prevention and Crime Prevention Agency, which we have set up under the Drug Convention, we have also set up a body for combating terrorism. This is still relatively small and now needs to be expanded. This too is a point which is extremely important for our foreign policy and which can only be carried on by the Foreign Ministers. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, and I come to today's point, shows one thing: The EU enlargement, which we have at all made possible through Nice, must continue, and it must be continued quickly, but qualityly. We also work for that! But also in other areas – and again and again I would like to mention this – Austria has set particular priorities. Think of the Christian-Islamic dialogue – then started by Foreign Minister Mock, continued by Federal Chancellor Schüssel, continued by me: These are the things that are important in the world today, so to speak, only small things that have not been addressed, but now show where we have to go – namely, in the direction of conflict prevention and conflict prevention. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is something the Foreign Ministers are doing, and that is why we are traveling. I think it would be ridiculous to say that travel is not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7244	Mr Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7265	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr. Minister of Defence! I was really very surprised when I heard Mr Gusenbauer's comments here today. You really surprised me. He has said that it is in our efforts to promote security actionism. . I believe who finds these words for the efforts in Europe and the whole world has not understood what it really is about. Ladies and gentlemen! We live in a completely new threat scenario: We're dealing with terrorists who make suicide a weapon, we're dealing with terrorists who believe they get a reward in a later life through suicide and mass murder, we're dealing with a threat that's completely new. This is a threat that we need to fight together worldwide, and I do not understand that anyone is questioning this commonness by saying that it is security-political activism. It is true that we have had a shock in the EU. We have had a shock, but the EU has responded immediately. We got ourselves right away, on 20th. On September 27, we met at an extraordinary Council of Justice and Interior Ministers. We met again on September 16th. We will meet again in October, and we will meet twice this year. Why we do this is of course: Because, together, we want to fight this new terrorism, which exceeds all that has so far been in danger and intensity. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will have to redefine terrorism, including in its actions. We will have to justify the European arrest warrant. We know the risks there are, and we will proceed with an eye - that is quite natural. Of course, we must bear in mind, in the European Arrest Warrant and in the so-called European Extradition, that we do not deviate from the principle of double criminality. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What does that mean? – In the context of extradition, we must have ensured that the action is punishable not only in the country of the requesting State, but also in accordance with the criminal law of the requested State. In the future, we must also ensure that it does not result in extradition of its own citizens. We will ensure, through appropriate procedures and appropriate arrangements, that terrorism no longer takes place in Europe if possible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The European Treaties and formulations are already on the table. Of course, the rule also provides that those perpetrators, who, as it is said, are released from terrorism, are punished less or more mildly. I say quite frankly to you: This is too little for me, for the reasons mentioned earlier: because we have to do with perpetrators who do not shy the suicide and use it as a weapon. That is to say, we want a further leniency regulation from Austria. We need to think more about prevention – and Mrs Foreign Minister has already mentioned it: We need to stop looking for perpetrators who kill themselves, we can't arrest them anymore; we must be successful in the run-up to the fight against terrorism. What does that mean? – Of course, the global network of terrorism that has now been created has a wealth of people involved. We can assume that not all of these contributors are self-killing. We need to encourage those who may not at first realize the network they are in, to get out of the way and to cooperate with the state authorities to prevent terrorists. – Only in this way can we successfully carry out prevention, and only in this way can we successfully avert terrorist attacks in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is therefore a part of our security package, our anti-terrorism package, that we are making a testimonies scheme, which provides that those people who are concerned about their responsibilities and who cooperate with the public authorities in good time are mildly punished, yes, they may even be completely penalised. But there must not be a reward for criminal pre-life, and the disapproval of the state – perhaps through observation on a lifetime basis – must be expressed. But we will certainly make a further contribution to the prevention of terrorism. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Since Mr Cap has said that everything is too slow for him, I would like to point out the following: Already tomorrow we have the opportunity to adapt our criminal law. – In the Austrian Criminal Code, we have a provision called "Landwang". This provision prohibits the people or groups of people being put in fear and unrest. However, this criminal standard is only equipped with a criminal framework of three years. I don't think that's enough. We will therefore make the proposal tomorrow to extend this criminal framework to five or ten years, however, according to the respective criminal or terrorist energy. We are also doing so with an eye, but in the interests of the security of our people. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In Austria, we also have the record of the spread of false, disturbing rumors. This criminal offence has only a six-month criminal framework. That too is too little in our opinion. We will make the proposal that this threat should be three or even five years in the future. I believe that we will do all of this and must guarantee the right of our people to live in peace and security in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7374	As the next speaker, Mr Arbitrator is speaking. His speaking time is about 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7395	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Yeah, consensus is good, and we're glad there's a consensus. However, it cannot be that only the opposition contributes to consensus and the government wants it at a zero rate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whoever says consensus must also mean consensus, big and détail! I take it from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the speakers of the government parties that they are for consensus, I believe the Minister of Defence really wants to reach an agreement on the issue of the Security Doctrine, I believe that the primary will is really there, but unfortunately the primary and secondary will sometimes disperse. If we look at it in detail, we have legitimate concerns. Let's take the point Security Doctor: Yes, the will was there to reach an agreement on this issue. For days in the subcommittee responsible for this, we have tried to do something out of this concept, which in some or even in many respects might find our approval. But what did you do? – When we had reached a consensus far more than half, you presented a new proposal across the existing paper, a new one that was more indigestible to us than what we had discussed so far. They presented a draft which, in some respects, represents an increase in the consensual opposition. For this, an example: They found that neutrality was somehow eroded by us, because – and this is your accusation – Austria's accession to the EU did not have a reserve on neutrality. To do this, I have to tell you: I still have in mind what Mr Mock said when the question was asked: Should we express the retention of neutrality? He said: We don't need that because we have a valid neutrality law. But now, in this draft, you see it differently: They use it as an argument against neutrality and then put down a piece so that consensus does not become possible. Yes, Mr President Fischer was right in his opinion, and I too say: This draft makes it more difficult for us to reach a consensus, and we do not know why in a climate of agreement you hit a new draft on the table, which now makes this agreement almost impossible. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Because it was agreed that way, Mr. Schieder! You know that!]] Second example: travel. The focus on the Middle East, the Middle East, the Mediterranean and the Arab world is correct. This consideration is correct, the intentions are correct, and it is also right that much is traveled, and it is necessary. But does this really have to be so uncoordinated? Does it really have to be said that the opposition could have all the information, but that there is not a concept behind it that one does not agree on a common effort to do the best that one does not agree with the opposition, in its own ranks and with the Federal President? No, you don't. Another example is the question of security. – They submit a security package. But you know that with us there is a concern that this increase in security, as you call it, leads to less personal rights. If you wanted to digest this, if you wanted the opposition's consent, if you wanted to negotiate it seriously, then you would have to talk about the accompanying measures at the same time, then you would have to talk about the following questions: How can democratic control be strengthened? How can better prevent abuse? How can the opposition be given more opportunities to have an insight and to check what is being done? Instead, you cover yourself in silence and answer questions so that the "taste" can be heard that it is expressed that you want the opposition to die ignorantly. This is not the climate in which consensus develops. Yes, if you say consensus, you also have to mean consensus – en big and detail.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7457	The next speaker was Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7478	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I wanted to talk essentially about the National Security Council now, but Mr. Schieder is encouraging me to address his remarks, even though the hall – the direct transfer has ended – has been very empty. Ladies and gentlemen! Security in all dimensions is the basis for the functioning of democratic states and the well-being of citizens. Effective security policy must be comprehensive and therefore cannot be isolated and implemented by individual departments. In order to avoid coordination of resources and efforts and to avoid double-tracking, it is necessary to have a national advisory, information and coordination body, as it works as a Security Council in different countries. All the parties represented in this House have decided to bring together – and I believe that is, almost the most important thing – a request for the creation of a National Security Council. This common interest shows how important the issue of security is for all, and also testifies to the intention of achieving vital issues with the broadest possible consensus. This consensus is also important for the work of the body later on, a body which, by its confidentiality, gives the opportunity to share information that could not otherwise be passed on publicly. This creates an obligation for both sides, both for the opposition, which, even if it was still so tempting, cannot go to the public, as well as for the government which has at least the same great obligation to pass on the information necessary for the consultation. It is not possible to demand solidarity in times of crisis, unless previously established by cooperation. None of the parties will be fully satisfied with the result, and perhaps everyone would like to see other concerns formulated, but with such a broad consensus this is probably not possible. Therefore, if it turns out later in practice that supplements and corrections are necessary, we will then discuss them. But now, in the present crisis-like development of world policy, it is, I believe, important that we have this instrument. We can also be a little proud of the fact that, just as in the preparation of the Security Doctor, we did not only need the start of the terrible attack in the USA in order to become effective in this direction, but that for a long time, almost a year, we have been working on the formulation of this law, even though the terrorist attack in the USA has unquestionably influenced and accelerated the course of the party negotiations. However, the attack seems to go further and further into the background, and the commonness loses ground and ground. Mr Schieder, because you have now spoken about this and the debate has begun: As chairman of the relevant subcommittee, I have avoided talking about the outcome of the negotiations in the Committee and also about discussion issues in the public, because I was convinced that this would have had a negative impact on the negotiating climate. However, it is extremely difficult – and this must be said to the SPÖ quite clearly – to negotiate with a party that has a security speaker who has a European speaker who has a defender who has a clubman who is not allowed to speak to it because of his NATO laziness, and who has one trouble factor of first degree, namely colleague Fischer, who, every time he is running half-timbered, sparks from above, to which he seems to have the possibility and the power. I very much regret this, because the level of discussion we have had so far has actually led us to conclude that we find a way of getting to a common path on this point. On the basis of yesterday's broadcasts by President Fischer and what I heard now – and Mr. Schieder is not someone who speaks lightly before him – I must fear that this is not going in this direction. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say: Security or, better to say, increasing uncertainty is a central problem for every modern society for which it rightly expects political solutions. Many and very important topics await this completion. We now have an appropriate advisory instrument with the National Security Council. It's up to us to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7543	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7564	Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let me start by saying: The establishment of a National Security Council will be decided today by the votes of all political groups, and I believe that this is basically a good sign that the political parties understand the security need of the population, perceive it together, and also have the insight that it is in the interest of the people not to produce a small party dispute on such issues, but to put common action in the foreground. We welcome the fact that this has also implemented an important part of the Government Convention on Security. As far as the Treaty of Nice is concerned, the government has not only safeguarded and even improved Austrian interests, but has also clearly implemented Parliament's negotiating mandate, as we have said here. There is more weight for the smaller states, the unanimity remains on important issues. We are grateful for the fact that there is also broad consensus in this House in the over-flight problem – although not with all parties, but with the large majority of the National Council. We know that there is UN Security Council resolution 1368 with the relevant decision, and that is also true of us as the Republic of Austria. That's what it was on 11 November. We see September this year as an alliance case for democrats and for the free world. In this case of alliance, we too, ladies and gentlemen, confess. We are also ready to take action accordingly. We are prepared to cooperate in this necessary fight against terrorism and also to open our airspace to those who want to act and act in the face of this threat. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, we regret the attitude of the Greens on this issue. It is contradictory, it is unbelievable, and it is also deeply controversial in its own party. "Reality refusal" – Mr Voggenhuber speaks of it, and he says that it is not a case of neutrality and that the legal interpretation of the Greens is not more interested in anyone in the world, because the conflict has long passed away. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the case with the Greens, but with the legal reality that is recognised everywhere in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You should really take your heart to heart, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, what your colleague Voggenhuber says about you. He says that the Greens would run "Lying Appeasement Policy". To look for the cause of the attacks in the errors of the US foreign policy, just as you are very happy to do, Mrs Lunacek, is a devastating stupidity. Of course, the US is also making mistakes, but we also need to talk about this issue in the Arab countries, about disdained human rights and tyranny. It was, says Voggenhuber, about small minorities, based on Islamic fundamentalists whose goal was the destabilization of whole societies and the dissolution of democracies. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! That is what it is all about, and that is why, of course, there is also the defence right of the free world! Ladies and gentlemen! In the last ten years, we have really tried to get away with it as cheaply as possible in the field of security policy. We have not given her the importance that would have been necessary, and precisely you from the Greens and from the Left it was that this federal army, wherever it went, treated badly, so that it could practically not fulfill its mission. But I think that if you do not believe our members of the government, perhaps you believe the German Minister of the Interior, Schily, who said the following: "That's why no one in this place can fall into the arm: It cannot be used that certain files that we have are not available to clarify these things. Data protection is all right, but data protection must not lead to a barrier to crime and terrorism." That is what German Minister of the Interior Schily writes to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, in the main book, and you should really think about it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, the rule of law must not be sacrificed! Of course not! That is in line with all our convictions. Everything else would be a folly. But you already have to distinguish: Is it a violation of the rights of freedom if we ensure that no one can hide his identity or deceive others about it? Identity assurance must be a matter of course in a rule of law so that the State can exercise its control obligations and its control rights. That is what we are confessing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, a word from Schily that I would like to sign: "The fight against evil is a real struggle. Evil is a spiritual, a social reality. We will and we must take up this fight fearlessly. We will win him if we seek peace in ourselves and in the others and find peace." Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7638	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7659	Mr President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Kukacka, how was that? – "The evil is always and everywhere" – isn't it? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The Schily said that, not me! But I am also of this opinion!]] It is a simplification to say that evil is there and that must now be fought. But you too, Mrs Minister, have said that this is a struggle of civilized against the uncivilized. I am opposed to the fact that we are acting in this conceptuality, because that means that you are doing something similar to those who say that this is the struggle of religions, that is, the struggle of cultures, that is the fight against Islam. – It’s not that simple! These are a few, if you look at them as a whole, and not all the uncivilized peoples who are now planning terrorism. These are some who are to be fought, but to say that is to fight against the uncivilized, on the other hand, I keep myself. When we were with the developmental speakers in Burkina Faso, I heard an interview by a Senegalese political scientist who also meant: Now proclaim the struggle of civilizations or against the uncivilized, this hit him personally because he is not from the Western world. – So I would like to defend myself against such formulations. Mr Kukacka! They meant that we Greens would never say anything about human rights in the Arab countries and the like. You seem to have not taken note of exactly what we, the enlarged Federal Board of Directors, decided on last Saturday, for example. We have decreed that there is a reconstruction and development plan for the countries of the region concerned and that the allocation of funds should be linked to respect for democracy and human rights in the recipient countries without regard for religion or sex. If I have heard your speech now, I wonder how it is possible that ÖVP and FPÖ in the local Human Rights Committee are not prepared to recognise motions for resolutions requested by the Federal Government or the Foreign Minister to become active in their discussions with the respective governments in such cases. There are those who refuse to speak clear words here on human rights violations! They are from the government groups – and not the Greens! There is also one point that I find very interesting today: After all, when I heard the "Morgenjournal" in which Professor Rotter was referring to international law, war now prevails, now it is a war, because the government, the state of Afghanistan is being attacked and that is now being said, I thought: Yet the Greens – Mr Van der Bellen and everyone else – were right! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Professor Rotter has often been wrong!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Rotter can also be wrong!]] If I read Mrs. Foreign Minister's broadcast one and a half hours ago, in which she says that it is not true that this is not a war in the sense of international law, then I can only say: Okay, may be that some international lawyers here have different opinions, but if the argument is made that the Taliban regime is not a recognised government and it is therefore certainly not a war if the structure of this regime is to be destroyed, I wonder how it should go together, because it is finally a country, a territory that has certain structures. If it is now clearly said that this regime should be destroyed – and please do not tell me now that I am for the Taliban; far from it! – that these structures should now be destroyed and that this regime should be overthrown, this clearly means to international rightsists Dr. Rotter: Now it's a war. Mrs. Foreign Minister! For me, the question now arises: When is it a war for you? Do x civilians have to die? Do some hospitals have to be bombarded? Do UN positions or Red Cross positions need to be bombarded? When will it be a war? When will it be a war for you? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Just as you argued with the former Yugoslavia!]] Mrs. Minister! Here you are guilty of an answer, and I think the position of the Greens in this question - if not earlier, then at least today - has received an additional international legal legitimacy from which you have always meant that we would not have. On the question of what the Austrian foreign policy looks like, what initiatives are being put here: Mrs Minister, you are quite right to say that the situation now also offers an opportunity for diplomatic initiatives that Austria sets out. I have nothing against it either, if there are now several trips of ministers and ministers, only: Where is the concept behind that? Where is the concept of how you want to implement conflict prevention, conflict prevention, which you, too, always speak of, more widely? I guess there's not enough travel. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Ferrero-Waldner.]] – Travel is already important, I say yes, I have nothing against the journeys, but I lack the concept behind it. And what's missing – I know you're addressing this similarly, but there's the question of how you're going to get through within the Federal Government – that's the budget you need for that. How do you intend to implement all of this in a broad foreign policy offensive if there is no money for it – and if there is nothing yet: Minister of Defense Scheibner said Austria has an excellent reputation, especially in the Arab countries. – Well, the reputation comes from a time when the German Chancellor Kreisky was called, and unfortunately this reputation has not really been expanded in the last ten to 15 years. Austria's foreign policy, also under the current German Chancellor Schüssel, has focused on Europe's policy, and everything else has been far away. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Ferrero-Waldner.]] Mrs. Minister! I already know that the rest of the world is a concern to you, but the question is: What does this really mean for Austrian foreign policy? Where are the major initiatives, for example in the area of development cooperation and in the area of real commitment in the Middle East? There are too few individual trips, that's just too little. What I'm asking myself is: What is it like with the new law on development aid, which will now come into Parliament? Where do you stay in times like this – you too have said: The command of the hour is the fight against poverty! – the massive finding that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has coordination competence for all areas of Austrian external relations, not just for bilateral development cooperation, and not just for some multilateral organisations? It is a question of coordinating competence in all areas, including in the field of Austrian trade and economic policy. In this respect, there is almost nothing inside. A joint body with the Ministry of Finance cannot have this great coordination competence. Cohesion and coherence of the different external relations, that is what each country in the EU and the EU as a whole needs in order to ensure that conflict prevention can actually take place, because otherwise it does something that the other hand knows nothing about. This is too little, there are still very clear initiatives. I would now like to make an amendment to the Government's proposal 622 of the supplements concerning the amendment of the Federal Constitutional Act. It has already been negotiated in the Committee, it has already been said that, unfortunately, there was no majority in favour of this. However, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] You, Mrs. Foreign Minister, should be concerned. They come from the UN and know how necessary it is to strengthen the United Nations. In order to redefine the political role of this neutral Austria in the development of a common foreign and security policy of the European Union, it would be an important approach to truly introducing a world-wide, global and solidarity-oriented peace and security policy. With this addition to Article 23f B-VG, which is amended today, there would really be a reorientation and it would be quite clear that there is only a participation in combat operations with a corresponding mandate from the United Nations, and that we are calling for this mandate for both Austrian and European security and foreign policy. I hope there will still be approval here. Another point on the agenda today is the National Security Council. At the beginning, I was very pessimistic, at the end astounded, and pleased that it was possible to accept the Greens' proposal, not to subordinate the entire foreign policy to security policy and to push foreign policy towards militarization by summarizing all three Councils that exist under the title of the National Security Council. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] You know very well, Mr. Jung, that there are not only topics – or perhaps you don't know exactly – that can be – which are located in the field of the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior – these ministers are now represented in this Security Council, but that there are also issues such as foreign culture policy, development policy, foreign trade and foreign trade. [[Abg. Boy: Nobody fought!]] I see no reason why they all need to be discussed under the title of security policy. Of course, a broad sense of security is in order, but everything under the title of security, which will still be understood as military security in most minds, is not all right, and I am therefore very glad that there has been an agreement in that case, according to which the two other councils will be grouped together for a common Council, a Council for Integration and Foreign Policy, and that it will be possible to deal with things which do not necessarily have a security aspect here. One last point that has already been raised today is the question of: What exactly does Austria do? With regard to Austria's contributions to the UNHCR, Austria is on 26 June. The place of the donor countries, Austria is thus one of the last countries. We are still in front of Turkey and China, but there are many places further in the back there no longer. For years it has been the highest time that Austria has increased its contributions. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be a very concrete measure, which is necessary, apart from the use of Austria, for example, to interrupt the bombings. That would also be something we would like from you, Mrs Minister, to introduce at European level to the partners, such as the United States, that these interruptions are necessary in order to help refugees to have their own transport corridors, otherwise winter will come and there is no longer any way to give these refugees the things they need. I expect all of this from an active Austrian foreign policy, and unfortunately I have not heard this from you today in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7841	The motion for a resolution and the amendment tabled by the speaker are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Jäger. Your speaking time is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7865	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is no doubt the world before and after the 11th. It is not the same September, which is why the establishment of a National Security Council is an important matter, and that is why we also support this institution. I must say that after the last debate we had here in Parliament on this issue, I also had the hope that, in fact, all the parties had a sensible, a common approach in mind, but then a better one was taught very quickly, in particular by the statements of Klubobmann Westenthaler or Landesführer Haider, statements with which I believe in a truly shameless way the legitimate concerns of people were exploited in order to incite fears. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The equality of asylum seekers with murderers and criminals is really unreasonable, and it is also factually wrong. I really have to point this out, because New York's perpetrators – which has already been said today – were adapted immigrants who had a lot of money and lived in the country unlit. They weren't asylum seekers. I think the most important thing about the current debate – and I hope that this will also be done in the Security Council – is: We must not destroy that democratic and free society that we now want to defend against terrorism, in the fight against terror itself. This political error must not be made. To undermine freedom and citizens' rights with the argument to defend freedom is really the wrong way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then the terrorists would have finally won, because that would mean that our state, as we find it today, would no longer exist. It has also been said several times today that conventional military resources are far from sufficient to combat terrorism. Now we have to ask ourselves: What are the right means? As a politician, we are primarily invited to dry the soil for terrorism, to combat the causes. We must finally realize that every unresolved conflict, every crisis hero in the globalized world, can become a powder vessel – at any time and immediately! Bruno Kreisky – he has already been addressed today – recognized this already 30 years ago in relation to the Middle East and has set up really groundbreaking initiatives here. I would just like to give you one example. At present there is a war in the Congo with 2.5 million victims, which is not at all taken note of by the world’s public. I think this too is an area in which something has to happen. We must finally be prepared to look at the real problems of this world, and we must also be prepared to take action from our own situation. It has already been mentioned today: I think it's been missed at the end of the Cold War to redesign the world, and I think that's a shame. With NATO enlargement, there has been an upgrade and not a disarmament, and that is what we actually need. We could finance the Marshall Plan for the countries of the south with these resources, which are now not free. Another point: I also think that under the new EZA legislation, we should finally be ready to provide the necessary financial resources for combating poverty. I'm allowed from the "Salzburger Nachrichten" of 20. Citing October, where it says: "The division between the rapid economic linkage on the one hand and the growing social divide on the other is tearing the world apart. (...) We have all watched the poor in this world even more poor and the rich have become richer." I mean, the issue of national security really needs to be dealt with in this very comprehensive way, and this also includes – that has already been mentioned by Ulrike Lunacek – that every victim has the same value for us. If we were rightly affected by the victims of New York, then every misguided marcher that meets housing settlements in Afghanistan must also make us affected by every killed child. I would also like to stress once again: There must be extensive assistance for the population concerned, and it needs to be reconsidered whether there should be an interruption of the battles before winter. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Lunacek]] All of this should also be brought into the negotiations by our Foreign Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7939	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7961	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Jager, I can tell you that, without a doubt, there is no freedom. We, all parties represented in the National Council, must take security policy seriously and also call things by name, and we do so freely – and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, we have come to terms with the Security Council, but also with other aspects of a four-party agreement, and I believe that the National Council as a whole is showing a whole new responsibility, a responsibility that is welcome. However, we should also bear this responsibility in the preparation of a new Security Doctor. I can refer here to what my friend Wolfgang Jungges has said, and I also confirm that in this light his offer as the chairman of the Subcommittee of the National Defence Committee to hold talks with opposition parties on this issue is serious, and I would ask you to accept this offer as well. I am firmly convinced that we will also be able to reach a responsible agreement here. I have closely followed the remarks made by Mr Schieder in the debate today, and I have also listened to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, in the subcommittee, including you, Mr Einm. I would like to address you because you are the last SPÖ security politician left here in the room. – Excuse me, Mr Klubobmann is still present, but he has been speaking relatively rarely to NATO in recent times! I have listened very carefully to your colleague's statement. I have also read what your deputy Federal Party chairman said on this question, and I am still somehow skeptical about that. In these arguments, which you put against the paper presented by the government, you also suggest that this is mainly a military security concept. I agree with you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ that a security policy can no longer be built on the military alone. You would like to read sentences in a security doctor as: Risks can be addressed by preventive measures on the ground, including comprehensive measures of political and economic support, assistance in the development of democratic and rule-of-law structures and international military presence on the ground. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! This is the content of the paper that the government parties have presented to you! They also argue that the government parties in their paper do not refer to the events of the 11th. September. They also want to read sentences in a paper that recaptures the Security Doctor, such as that there are other forms of threat, that there are totalitarian ideologies, fundamentalist religions, population development and migration, energy and resource problems, food problems and environmental hazards. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! This is also the content of the Government Party paper. I read to you from page 3. They also bring other ideas. They're talking about us talking about a fundamentalist religion. . I quote here your deputy Federal Party chairman. We are very happy to clarify this in our paper. On page 5, we speak of various actors, such as terrorist movements, such as groups of organised crime, sects, as well as individual perpetrators. That's all flown into the paper that's been submitted to you. They are also motivating about the fact that in the chapter "From neutrality to solidarity" a tendentious text presented. This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Especially in this chapter "From neutrality to solidarity", the government parties describe the constitutional reality that you left us. The FPÖ/ÖVP government has not at all caused a constitutional change in security policy! What is described here is what you have left us on the principles of security policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So you see, the government parties take Their objections are very serious, yes they already take them into account in the paper before you raise them in public. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that we will make rapid progress and complete the debate on the Security Doctrine in the Subcommittee. And you should consider the opposition well, because I believe that the Austrian people – as well as the National Security Council – are also expecting a responsible approach by all parties to the National Council at the Security Doctor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8046	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. Your watch will be set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8067	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I will allow myself to respond to Mr Bösch's words only at the end of my remarks, because I think we should say one more word to ratify the Treaty of Nice and to the preparatory work. High house! We Socialists have always made it clear that we will ratify the Treaty of Nice. Despite all the criticism you can practice in detail on the Nice Treaty, despite all the criticism you have at the summit: We will ratify it because we believe that this is the prerequisite for making the enlargement of the European Union a reality, and because we believe that enlargement of the European Union is an essential step towards the expansion of a European peace zone and an essential step towards the expansion of a zone of economic prosperity. That is why we will ratify the Treaty of Nice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But we have made two conditions clear from the start. One condition was that the government is ready to provide a Convention as an instrument for preparing the European Union's institutional reform and to enter the Laeken Summit and, of course, already in preparation for it in Ghent. And the second condition is that the government is ready to take concrete steps to prepare enlargement in Austria, because it is not only about finding enlargement well and negotiating not only seven years of transition – all wonderful – but also about the people who are concerned about enlargement in Austria. That's important. And this fear is not taken by beautiful words, but by concrete actions. That is why we demand clear commitments from the government parties in the direction that there is a skill offensive for those workers who are at least threatened by enlargement, not only when enlargement has taken place, but now the preparatory work is to be done, because people have to be assured that the government and the opposition are concerned about their concerns. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The amazing thing is that we have to ask you for three months until you were ready to do the work you are actually in office for. Friendly, you are now ready to talk to us about it. The success of these measures, which we demand of you, will essentially also have you. The question that arises is why you are not actually willing to do these things a little faster and a little more offensive. We also call for a regional policy initiative by the Federal Government, because it is necessary to provide the regions most affected by enlargement with appropriate assistance in restructuring the farms which are then exposed to increased competition. We demand that of you and hope that you will meet us there and do the necessary in the interests of the Austrian population. We demand that the infrastructure be extended to the candidate countries, in such a way that the increasing traffic expected can be managed environmentally. You may be willing to do so after you have decided on a general transport plan, but, ladies and gentlemen, that is not enough! You must act now and not on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And we also demand that the transitional period of seven years in which freedom of movement of persons, i.e. freedom of movement for workers and freedom to provide services, will also be subject to appropriate controls, otherwise we will not need a transitional period. If not checked, then the whole thing is sand in the eyes of the population. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to invite you very warmly, in the discussions we have with the government parties on this issue, to really want to come to a serious consensus. We're ready to do that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I am pleased that we are today deciding on a four-party proposal which deals with the Convention as a preparatory instrument. It is not the case, as honourable Member Schweitzer said, that this was a government initiative – on the contrary – but we have found ourselves, and that is crucial. I'm glad I'm grateful we found ourselves, and I think that's right and good. Nor is it, as Mr Schweitzer said, that the most important thing is that national parliaments continue to keep saying, but the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that Parliaments keep saying it. It is about democracy and not about the national side. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We are therefore in favour of a Convention as a model for constitutional changes in the European Union, because it is mainly national and European parliamentarians, and because we do not want it to be performed as a national game of interest between Heads of State and Government, but because we want it to be conducted in a parliamentary way. That is why we are happy about this agreement today. Finally, let me say one more sentence to the Security Doctor. I agree on a point with Mr Jung: I do not think it is particularly useful to deal with these questions in detail here in the House, in plenary. Mr Bösch, I do not think that you are doing a very good job with this. We are prepared to discuss these matters very seriously. Mr Jung knows this too, and the Minister of Defence is also taking this matter seriously, as we have heard from his statement today. However, we will have to understand questions in which we are in fact of differing opinion – otherwise these discussions would not be necessary. Mr Bösch, if you think that a responsible security policy is that we simply follow the line of government, I cannot follow you in it. We will stand up for the interests of a secure Austria! This, in turn, presupposes that we do not start with the military with the security policy, but at the end of the military. It must begin in the political field! And there are probably a lot of things we can find together. I do not want to say much more here and today about the negotiations on this in a subcommittee.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8197	The next speaker was Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8218	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We are currently in the so-called post-Nizza process, in which the governments and parliaments of the EU countries have to deal with very important future issues of our continent. These include, first of all, the precise demarcation of the competences of the Europeans from the national level, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity, secondly, the further treatment of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, thirdly the simplification of the European Treaties, which have partly become unclear, and fourthly the strengthening of the influence of national parliaments on European integration. If one compares these objectives with the degree of their current implementation, one finds a contradiction between theory and practice. It is not the solution to these future issues that has shaped European policy over the past few days and weeks, but it is the insignificance of the European Union's foreign and security policy which is notable. The German Chancellor raised the problems very openly when he said recently – I quote him literally –: "Because the wishes of our friends in America are addressed to national states, in Europe to Great Britain, France and Germany, Europe does not matter." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a judgment that clearly demonstrates the weaknesses of today's European Union, because without a common European security policy, the foreign policy of individual EU Member States threatens to form a diplomatic activism. Commission President Romano Prodi expressed the irritation of many small EU countries when he said that in the context of the exclusive discussions of the French, British and Germans in front of the Ghent Summit, the EU should be closed and not separated during the crisis. Some of the observers of European policy were reminded of the discussions in the period before the Nice Intergovernmental Conference, at that time before the creation of a so-called directorate – coined on the Federal Republic of Germany and France – and the impact of such a development on the whole Union. However, the Treaty of Nice and its compromises on the weighting of votes, the future composition of the Commission and also the maintenance of the principle of unanimity in essential matters have gradually scattered such concerns. From an Austrian point of view, one can be quite satisfied with the outcome of Nice, because the German Government has successfully represented the Austrian interests, especially in the sensitive areas to our people, and, as one previous speaker mentioned, has, above all, enforced the negotiating mandate of Parliaments. The extension of majority decisions took place only in those areas in which this is useful, for example when ordering organs. However, majority decisions were not the rule by Nice! As regards immigration policy, asylum and refugee policy, water management, spatial planning and land use, as well as essential issues such as those relating to Transport remained the principle of unanimity. This is essential because it concerns our Austrian interests directly. In voting weighting, the large Member States were granted only a significant appreciation, so to speak, as compensation for the abandonment of the second Commissioner. Especially for us Austrians, the anchoring of the rule of law in Article 7 was of particular importance: Sanctions, as they have been arbitrarily imposed on our country after the formation of the government in Austria, have not existed, for example, after the parliamentary elections in Italy. We all know that the Treaty of Nice contains a number of compromises, but the authorisation to conclude this Treaty is a necessary prerequisite for the enlargement of the Union which is imminent in the coming years. It is gratifying to conclude that there is a cross-party consensus here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8266	The next speaker was Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8288	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As the name says, security and defence policy issues are being dealt with in the National Security Council. Already in the past, all the fundamental issues of military defence were discussed and recommended within the framework of the Council of State Defense, especially if they went beyond the competence of the Minister of Defence. The events of recent weeks in particular highlight the need for an efficient and credible body for consulting on all matters of security and defence policy. We know: Terrorism is one of the greatest threats to democracy, and it has a lasting impact on the development of the economy and society! We are adapting to the new security requirements, and there is a need for continuous task-oriented further development here. Amended security policy frameworks and important security issues should be discussed at the widest possible level. The objective of security policy must be to stop the fight against acute conventional dangers, but above all to reduce the new threats and the vulnerability associated with them through preventive measures. We are on the path set out in the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties and are therefore also involved in the development of the common European security and foreign policy, which aims at a comprehensive security policy. Mr. Federal Minister, you are right today! – address the comprehensive security policy. I should just like to mention: We Socialists have always assumed this comprehensive security concept, from a security concept that is far beyond the military sphere, a security concept that gives wide scope to the political, economic, social, economic and environmental spheres. However, we have found little reluctance in you. [[Federal Minister Scheibner:... forget the military!]] You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and above all your colleagues from the ÖVP, have provided a more stringent definition and, Mr Jung, have put the military component in the foreground. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young]] This is certainly important and important, but cannot stand alone for the new European security architecture. Let that be said! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We know that the causes of many crises and conflicts lie in economic and social conditions, in unsolved regional conflicts and in the enormous differences between the rich and the poor. A security policy – and that is what I am saying as an interlocutor – which is limited only to classical military issues is too short. And we can't be a partner for you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At a time when not only economic, political and cultural interdependences and dependencies are constantly increasing, but also risks and crises across borders, there is a need for intensive cooperation in terms of security more than ever before. The new National Security Council will be responsible for all areas of the former National Defence Council and the so-called Petersberg tasks, i.e. security issues foreseen within the framework of the EU. In the past, security policy has often been broken down, often party-politically taken up. Now – certainly under the impression of the terrible events in the United States – there is a four-party union. For the first time since 1984, when it came to the decision of the National Defence Council, there has been a cross-party consensus on security issues – and I am particularly pleased. We, the SPÖ, have sought and made possible this broad national consensus in the interests of predictability and continuity. The compromise now reached in the installation of the National Security Council should be an opportunity for the government parties to also highlight together in parliamentary deliberations on the Security Doctrine, the Joint, the National Consensus. Negotiations of the Subcommittee on the New Security and Defence Doctrine were held at the end of the 8th century. In November, the government's proposals were postponed because they had been put forward too late. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] In any case, we are at our disposal for serious discussions. There are very competent proposals from our side. We pursue a responsible security policy – whether as a government partner or as an opposition – and indeed we are in the opposition for a responsible security policy. We are in favour of quick and constructive proposals, but the positions on the ground of the current Constitution must be. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! If you take our objections seriously, then the result – or the hidden goal! – not an end to neutrality and NATO accession. For us Social Democrats, accession to a military alliance is still not for discussion. We want to make a sovereign decision on Austrian security policy! If you can see that, there will be a common way here.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8350	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8372	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Voggenhuber certainly has more admirers than I do, but he has a full right: In the event of a foreign policy threat, an opposition party should act as if it were part of the government. This principle is also in line with today's National Security Council. It is to be welcomed that this request is based on a four-party consensus. However, it is unfortunate that the Greens have discussed the question of the overflight authorisation for the United States' armed forces and that it considers that there are violations of neutrality and the federal constitution. I think it's an old anti-American complex that was crucial here. The arguments of Mr Lunacek reminded me very much of those discussions that took place in connection with military operations in the Balkans. At the time, too, the Greens raised objections to Western participation in fighting in the Balkans. Yes, if it had gone to the Greens, there would still be civil war there today. Instead, a young democracy is trying to consolidate its democratic foundations. It should also be noted that: There were many criticisms here by the Greens, including against measures in the fight against terrorism, but not a single constructive proposal. What would be the alternative to this commitment by the United States, Mr Pilz? Is the alternative that the civilized world must capitulate before this threat? Is the alternative, for example, that we should just wait for the next terrorist attack? Perhaps a fanatical Muslim will find himself next time a sports aircraft, a larger machine or whatever happens, a nuclear power plant, perhaps even in Europe, will be set up, causing an atomic threat. The civilized world cannot remain guilty of the answer to this threat scenario! A reply has to be found. However, I am perfectly of one opinion with those who say that such a foreign policy threat cannot lead to a turning of legal principles under the table. That's not a question at all! It is necessary to find a balance between maintaining freedom and taking into account the security needs. Since here was the talk of the much flattered or also praised fingerprints: What Mr Cap has read today was from 1995 or 1996. By this one sees how much the then consciousness has changed to this day! Who would have assumed in 1995 that in the years 2001/2002, a German car manufacturer would only place more vehicles on the market, which can be opened by fingerprint? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: 1998! 1998!]] The conditions have changed completely. I would have liked to have an objective discussion about the fingerprints. This is not about acceptance or non-deduction. Rather, it is about what is done with the information that the state demands the citizens to what extent they can be used and can be networked with other data. That's why it's not about the question "yes" or "no"! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the end of the day, I will come very briefly to the debate on neutrality, which Mr Gaál has referred to: With all the maintenance of neutrality, please do not forget that neutrality has already been eliminated in sub-areas. This, Mr Cap, is based on a joint request from the then - from today's point of view - coalition made by Khol and Kostelka, in which the Amsterdam Treaty was implemented by Article 23f of the Constitution. Of course, this Treaty partially denotifies neutrality, which is no question at all! I can add one more thing: The neutrality was – this is the explanatory remarks of the decision of the 26th General Assembly. In October 1955, the National Council expressly did not claim to be a building law in our constitution at that time. That is to say, it must be put out of power by means of a simple federal constitution law without referendum. In a sub-area, i.e. in view of the so-called Petersberger tasks, which can also provide for military intervention, it has already been suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8418	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8440	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Krüger, if I have understood you correctly, we are of the opinion that: The defence of freedom must not lead to the destruction of this basic value. And the approaches we hear here are not necessarily designed to increase people's security. Ladies and gentlemen! When we discussed the Treaty of Nice here in the early summer of this year, we have already pointed out that this creates the conditions and foundations for the enlargement of the EU and thus for an enlarged security zone in Europe. ==References== We are facing new threat scenarios worldwide on September of this year, and we must recognise that there are no limits for certain forms of violence. Today we all have an increased need for security. The aim of enlargement is to extend the area of peace and stability in Europe from our point of view. However, we will only achieve this goal if enlargement is carefully and carefully prepared. This applies both to the preparation with the partner countries and to those in Austria itself. Social security remains one of the main pillars of peace and stability. In his speech, Mr Gaál has already pointed out that we Social Democrats are based on a comprehensive concept of security. An essential part of this concept of security is social security, the question of employment, that is, the labour market. The draft Joint Employment Report 2001 of the EU Commission draws attention to the favourable economic and employment situation in Austria in 2000. Nevertheless, positive effects of the childcare allowance are questioned and, above all, the structural labour market problems are considered to be unresolved. The challenges are the increased support of certain target groups through active labour market policies, the solution of structural labour market problems, a comprehensive strategy for lifelong learning and the improvement of the provision of care services. In this respect, the Austrian Federal Government has remained guilty not only of the EU, but above all of the people in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We are currently faced with rising unemployment rates. At the same time, however, the quotas for harvest workers and seasonal eggs were increased, and Federal Minister Bartenstein calls for more generous arrangements for frontier workers. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! It is positive that there is a good discussion here about transitional periods in the area of freedom of persons and freedom to provide services. But they themselves are again ad absurd with the national measures and discussions on these positive approaches. One of the main problems facing both the Federal Government and the political groups of ÖVP and FPÖ in Parliament is the question of black entrepreneurship. It reminds me a little of the German Chancellor's statement today, for terrorists there should be no bank secret. – Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean? Let someone come and say: I'm a terrorist, and now I have to prove myself? [[Abg. Kiss: "Si tacuisses!" I can only say!]] I believe that this statement is just as much a lip commitment as you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, repeatedly claimed, you wanted to combat illegal employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You don't mind! You assign the requests to subcommittees which you do not have to meet. What Is Effective You with that? – They thereby tolerate social fraud to our state and to the affected people. [[Abg. Kiss: Bullshit, absolute nonsense!]] They accept the withdrawal of funds from the insured community and introduce ambulance fees. You accept that taxpayers are missing money for the government budget, and you are taxing accident pensions. In Germany, there was only a remarkable judgment on social fraud this month, and it turned out that it was cross-border crime. Ladies and gentlemen! We have put forward proposals for the fight against black entrepreneurship, they are here in the house. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wrong speech!]] Do not continue to block the treatment of this topic! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We agree to the conclusion of this treaty, but the success of enlargement depends not least on how well the people in Austria and how well all the people who work here are involved in the social security network. Be active so that enlargement can actually be used for the future and for the expansion of peace and stability!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8527	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are therefore voting on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law establishing a National Security Council and amending the 1990 Wehrgesetz, including the title and receipt in 809 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – I note the unanimous adoption. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. . Once again, I adopt the unanimous adoption. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Ulrike Lunacekund comrades on increasing the Austrian UNHCR contributions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, and this rejects the request. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law, with which the Federal Law of 29 December 1989 was adopted. In June 1989 a Council on Austrian Integration Policy and the War Material Act was amended, including the title and entry into 810 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill for a sign on this point. – I see unanimity. The law is therefore unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to the draft law in question, to give them the same sign. . Once again, I adopt the unanimous adoption. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 565 of the supplements. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give a positive signal. – I note the unanimous adoption. I also expressly note that there is, of course, the two-thirds majority required by the constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is unanimously accepted. In this way I note that there is also the constitutional majority required. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Eins, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Schweitzer, Dr. Spindelegger, Dr. Lichtenberger and comrades on the establishment of a "convention" for the post-Nizza process. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – I note the unanimous adoption. (E 99.) We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 808 of the supplements. Since this draft law is also a Federal Constitutional Act, I am again defining the presence of the constitutional number of Members. Deputies Dr. Lichtenberger and comrades have submitted an additional request. I shall therefore first vote on this supplementary proposal and then on the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Committee's report. The additional amendment tabled by Dr Lichtenberger and comrades provides for the insertion of a point 7a. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for it to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority, and this rejects the request. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to have a similar sign. – This is the majority, and with that the draft law has been adopted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – I note the other day: The draft law is adopted by a majority, with the required two-thirds majority. 5. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (723 of the Supplements): The Federal Act, which amends the Employment Act, the Introductory Act on Administrative Procedure Laws 1991, the General Administrative Procedure Act 1991, the Administrative Criminal Law 1991 and the Administrative Enforcement Act 1991 and repeals the Administrative Discharge Act (No. of Administrative Procedure 2001) (813 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8702	We shall now proceed to item 5 of the agenda. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8727	Mr President. Estimated members of the Austrian Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now negotiating changes to the administrative procedure laws, and such changes generally do not receive very high attention in public and apparently in this House. [[Unrest in the hall]] Nevertheless, such laws are important when it comes to the rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8748	Ladies and gentlemen! I think that Mrs Petrovic has a right to be heard. I therefore ask that the talks that are certainly necessary not necessarily be held here in the hall.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8763	Unfortunately, this is usually the case with the administrative procedure laws: No one's really interested in it. There are very dry laws, dry legistic designs. Only when concrete procedures are conducted – and these are often procedures that are of very high importance for personal quality of life – will it become apparent that legal protection is more or less strong and good. The Greens have actually followed two principles in all changes to the administrative procedure laws. On the one hand, we want rapid, concentrated and transparent procedures to exist, but – and this is the second principle – the rights of citizens must not be reduced in the process. We have always found it very unfortunate that no government has so far been really willing to enter into negotiations with us on the progress of the green club towards a uniform environmental investment right, and that therefore this legislative piece – and again and again changes to the legislation on the matter and changes in the administrative procedure – will continue. In the meantime, there is a patch of different legislation, which is no longer very transparent and does not benefit citizens or businesses seeking any approval. We therefore urge you – even after this opportunity, once again missed – to finally enter into negotiations on a uniform environmental plant law. Ladies and gentlemen! Our specific criticism of this novel is based on the fact that, once again, a not dramatic but noticeable deterioration in legal protection has occurred in the future, in connection with the procedures at the Independent Administrative Senate, there will no longer be automatic public oral proceedings, but only if the appealer or the appealer so requests. Of course, it can be denied that such an application is possible. Nevertheless, as a rule, parties to the procedure are not extremely well informed about their own legal position, and we think that this is another step in weakening the position of appeal seekers. For this reason, and because extensive negotiations on a uniform regime of party status, a uniform regulation also of material legislation, as far as quality of life is concerned, have still not been envisaged by you, unfortunately the Greens of this government template cannot agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8815	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8836	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On this presentation, it is to be said that it is changing a part of a legislative matter, which is certainly, in the broadest sense, also included in the area covered by the administrative reform. I would also like to point out that I do not believe that the government's way of doing this administrative reform is sufficient in order to actually bring about a reform. In so far as it concerns simple legislation, which seems reasonable, our group will always be there and support this administrative reform. However, as far as these are unreasonable and unthinkable regulations, our group will not agree. This law contributes to making procedures easier or to adapting them to European legislation. That is why our group will agree, although we are in a motion for a resolution which my colleague Mr Magistrates. It will also point out the European deficits. In general, it is to be said: The procedure for this administrative reform does not correspond to the practice of this House with which these reforms have been addressed so far. First: A government reform without state reform is not a real reform. Secondly, The procedure adopted by Mrs Vice-Chancellor is completely missing, in particular in the Administrative Reform Act, because the two-stage bodies and the entire procedure, which was elected, are already in principle wrong. A draft was sent to us in which only a cassatory decision-making possibility of the UVS was cited. To the protests of the economy that this would prolong the procedure, and also to protests on our part, it was so that it was said that it could now be decided meritorically, but only if it allowed the first instance. I mean, it can't be! This results in an extension of the procedure and a legal uncertainty for the applicant. Imagine this: Someone comes to my office to advise me as a lawyer, and I can't even tell him who decides because that would be in the eyes of the first instance. This is a form of legal uncertainty that can hardly be improved if one does not implement a complete change of this law. I therefore call on you from the government parties to think again in the next few days about this type of administrative reform, which makes the applicant worse than before, and not to refer to the Vice-Chancellant in this respect, but rather to the "simple party member" in Carinthia, which has very well recognized that a meritorical decision would be the right procedure here and that this loophole should be closed to the cassatorial decision of the first instance. We would also support this view. I am just wondering why it is not enforceable; probably because it is the whole administrative reform that stands and falls. And the acceptance of the two-stage bodies is only possible if there are really two instances. However, there are no two instances, because the first instance can decide whether the second instance can only decide cassatoryly and thus rebuttal, which led to the whole trial fidelity going off the ground again. That means that this is really a deterioration in the current position, and one must ultimately say to those who make use of these decisions that they are disadvantaged by it. If you leave the current solution the way it is, you'd be better off. I mean, this is a reform for the purpose of reform – in order to be able to sell anything as a reform – because one has not gone further in the content, because one is not prepared to think about constitutional changes in this state, because one is not willing to discuss a state reform with the opposition, because one is not prepared to make consensus with us, because then a reasonable state reform would be possible. As it is carried out here, it remains flickwerk, it remains partial and ultimately for the applicant to the disadvantage of the prior stand. Nevertheless: We agree with this part of improving the administrative procedure laws. However, we continue to express our concern about the other parts that are still under negotiation, and we would still be willing if we were to invite us to discuss them with you, also to present supportive and improving proposals. But so far we have only been presented with finished facts, as it seems to have become so commonplace: for example, in the ORF law and in other laws. And then you want our consent. That's not how it's done! But you have the responsibility to take responsibility for this part of the legislation, and the right-seekers will think of their part when they see your reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8903	The next speaker is Mrs Papházy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8925	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Citizen proximity, service orientation, process acceleration, transparency, e-government – all these are keywords that in the near future should not only be self-evident in public administration, but will be natural. The new administrative procedure 2001 takes account of the government programme. The present government template already takes up suggestions from practice and creates many necessary clarifications. The present government template, for example, brings adaptations to the changeover from schilling to euro, simplifications to the UVS, the new media bring changes in the transmission of applications and their implementation, and the repeal of the administrative relief law is already a reformatory step. The new administrative procedure 2001 is to be seen in a wider context, in the context of the first major administrative reform law to be adopted in November. This administrative reform law – it has already been mentioned several times – will bring with it an appreciation of the district's headquarters and an upgrading of the UVS. A number of procedures will be dealt with in the first instance at the BH, in the second instance at the UVS – which the MRK also takes into account – and the concentration of proceedings in the district headquarters will be in line with the one-stop-shop principle. I have just gladly read the current press releases on the administrative reform – including my colleague Dr. Reinhard Bösch – according to which the administrative reform will also help save huge taxpayers in the medium term and will bring a discharge of the state budget to a double-digit billion in order to quote only one point from these numerous current press releases. In order to implement the administrative reform, it is important that procedural laws are flexible. The AVG must meet the requirements of administrative reform and the requirements of time, and this is done with the concrete government template. The aim of all steps of administrative reform, the aim of all steps of e-government, can only be to create a more citizens-friendly, a closer-to-citizen state. The government coalition is fully on schedule with the implementation of the government programme, including with regard to administrative reform. In the Constitutional Committee, the three major parties voted in favour of the reform of the administrative procedures, and I would be very pleased if this were the case today. I have received appropriate signals – also signals from the Greens that they will not go along this time too – and I am sure that the negotiations can be successful accordingly, so that until the next meeting in November, until the actual administrative reform, then all parties can also take this major, this essential step of the government coalition.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8973	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8994	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to repeat what has already been said. Let me make just two comments on the comments made by my previous speakers. First point. Madam President, Mr Petrovic, I think it is reasonable and it is right that it should now be established that an oral debate should be held before the independent administrative Senate, if the parties so request. If you go before the Independent Administrative Senate, you know very well about the legal situation. You don't go to such a high instance on every occasion. So I mean, this is right and brings about administrative simplification. We're always talking about red tape, and that's a real cost saving. Second point. Mr Wittmann, I believe that in the next few days and weeks we will take a very important step towards further administrative reform and state reform. It is simply wrong if it is claimed here that we do not give these further steps thorough advice, but the opposite is the case! Today, the Heads of State discuss this important administrative reform, the further steps that need to be taken. And I think that if the countries are first involved, then something very essential will be taken into account, because no doubt an administrative reform must be a co-operation between the federal government and countries. This step is being taken today. And there will certainly be enough time for parliamentary deliberations to solve the open problems. This, of course, also includes the question: Will the independent administrative Senate decide for themselves, or can they only refer back? – This is a question to be considered by the countries. There are many interests in this regard, and I think we are on the right track here. I welcome this proposal. It is unfortunate that you will not agree to all four parties, because I believe that all four parties could really agree here, because it reduces bureaucracy to a modest extent and because it has correct and correct content.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9038	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9059	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Our Constitutional Spokesman, Mr Wittmann, has already explained our position: In the case of sensible regulations, we agree. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We will therefore also vote in favour of the 2001 administrative procedure. However, allow me also to comment on the statements made by my previous speakers, for example Mrs Papházy's. It meant that the Administrative Reform Act was on schedule, and it would be a discharge. – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! That's not true! Read today's media! State Secretary Finz states that the administrative reform is half a year in arrears. As far as the assessment of the administrative reform law is concerned, we also have a different opinion. Mr Wittmann has already explained: There will continue to be double-tracks, and the UVS will unfortunately not be able to decide meritorically. But let me come briefly to this draft law. On the one hand, a euro adjustment is made, a currency change from schilling to euro. It has been correctly implemented, the rounding rules have been complied with and the regulations of the European Union have also been taken into account. I therefore strongly say this because we know exactly that it is not at country level. At country level, we are experiencing an increase in fees on the one hand, a false conversion, and we also note that the provisions of the European Union are not taken into account in the currency changeover. This is, of course, also true of the private sector. There are, for example, changes in package sizes, miscalculations and price and tariff increases, but we will discuss them again. This presentation contains provisions necessary, for example, the amendment of the Act on Subsidy with the obligation to provide foreign documents. We believe that this is necessary because there is a deficit at European level in this regard. And there will continue to be a deficit, ladies and gentlemen, because this arrangement refers to the Convention on the provision of documents in administrative matters abroad, but not all European countries have become members of this Treaty Act. Thus, no contractual arrangements exist, for example with Switzerland or with our eastern neighbours. Mr State Secretary! I have already explained it in the Constitutional Committee. I think it is necessary that this level of harmonisation is achieved precisely in the course of the accession discussion in the sense of the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We will have to amend these administrative procedure laws in the sense of e-government again. We will also need to change the delivery rules. However, we will also have to refer to the European initiatives. There is now an initiative by the United Kingdom, the French Republic and the Kingdom of Sweden to adopt a Framework Decision on the application by the Council of the principle of mutual recognition of fines or fines. We, the Socialist Group, believe that this initiative is absolutely supportive. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We invite you to: The Austrian authorities, the Austrian citizens, need such a scheme, because the lack of mutual recognition of fines and fines within Europe by individual Member States is an extremely unsatisfactory state. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We invite you to accept this motion for a resolution. And I'll hold it again. We will vote in favour of meaningful regulations on administrative reform, but we will not vote in vain!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9146	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is sufficiently supported, is in a material context with the matter of negotiation and thus also with the negotiation or then the vote. Next, Mr Morak is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9171	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In order to address a number of speeches: Mr Wittmann. Of course, the state reform has a long history. Many State Secretarys have worked on this, not to say: they have suffered from it. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] As we know, politics is an art of the possible, even in this question. But I can comfort you with the fact that today, in the course of the administrative reform, there has been an agreement of the nine countries that the UVS decisions can make in the matter themselves, unless the bra contradicts. If you could take this as a happy message for the day, I would be very pleased with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As you know, Mrs Petrovic, this change has taken place in § 67d of the 1991 Administrative Procedure Act at the suggestion of the UN Presidency Conference. An oral hearing will only be requested at the request of the party. I believe that this is a solution that has rightly been taken up in the course of modernisation, close to practice and increasing the efficiency of administration. Let me return to the questions raised by Mr Maier. We have discussed this and would like to give you an adequate answer. I think we still owe them to you by the committee on the basis of the postal route. On the initiative of the United Kingdom, the French Republic and the Kingdom of Sweden, with a view to adopting a Framework Decision on the application by the Council of the principle of mutual recognition of fines or fines: In principle, Austria has a positive attitude towards this project. Discussions are currently taking place at Council working groups level. There have been two meetings so far, a third meeting will be held on 31 December. ==References====External links== Austria's representation in the Council Working Group is, of course, carried out by the Federal Ministry of Justice, as administrative criminal aspects are only touched on the verge. On the issue of the negotiations on the enforcement of criminal decisions with Switzerland. The following negotiations are currently taking place on this matter: Negotiations on the possible association of Switzerland with the Schengen acquis and with the Dublin Convention in line with Iceland and Norway and negotiations on a anti-fraud agreement. Discussions are currently taking place at Council working groups level. The representation of Austria is also carried out by the Federal Ministry of Justice. At the end of 2000, the European Commission was given a negotiating mandate for an agreement with Switzerland on the fight against fraud. Switzerland has, in principle, signalled willingness to talk about the fight against fraud, but at the same time expressed its rejection of the extension of legal aid and therefore a ponization of these areas, also because of the opposition to national law. The European Commission informs about the lack of progress in the negotiations as a result of an unconstructive attitude by the Swiss side. Bilateral Agreements of the Republic Austria with Member States of the European Union in the field of service and enforcement in administrative matters: To the extent that this is apparent, there are the following contracts between the Republic of Austria and the Member States of the European Union on rules on jurisdiction and enforcement in administrative matters: with the Federal Republic of Germany in customs, excise and monopoly matters; with the French Republic in customs matters; with Spain in customs matters; with the Italian Republic in the field of motor vehicles; with the Federal Republic of Germany on administrative assistance; with the Government of the Italian Republic on administrative assistance for the prevention, investigation and prosecution of customs infringements. Current non-material agreements on administrative assistance and legal assistance currently do not exist with other Member States of the European Union, such with the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland at an early stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9240	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hetzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9261	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, if consumer disadvantages are encountered in the course of the euro changeover, all the means must be used and all the necessary measures must be taken. For this purpose, the Ministries responsible for consumer protection and in this case for pricing are represented. Reforms in the administrative process are also constantly adapting to economic and technical developments. The administration is developing gradually and not in big jumps, as we know. The use of new media and of future technologies and techniques should be a command of the hour, especially because we are currently in one of the largest administrative reforms in the Second Republic. Against the background of this administrative reform, which is also a further development of bureaucracy in our country, we do not miss out on this path now, finally, after many years of delay. Offices and authorities today are largely able to use new media and modern facilities in technical terms, and they do so largely. Let us think only of financial procedures, of commercial procedures and the like. There, technical development is already so far advanced that we can speak of a good institutionalization. Let's just think about the forms that can be downloaded easily and very quickly via the Internet today! Therefore, the following applies to legal adjustments: It is an absolute orientation to guarantee the technically feasible standard, it is necessary to ensure further development. This concerns not only offices and authorities, but also ministries or, for example, the administration of Parliament – we all do not want to sink into paper. Here, too, huge potentials are still available to make better use of new media, to use new media more appropriate, primarily as regards the transmission of information – in the interests of those working with it: Staff, Deputies et Cetera. We don't want the office of the future to sink the authority of the future into paper. In the USA, for example, more paper has been used since the introduction of e-mails in offices and authorities than before they were introduced. You really wonder in which direction the development should go. That cannot be the future of our administration! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we are very clearly in favour of further reforms, even further reforms in this area. Administrative structures which are 150 years old, such as district courts, are to be reconsidered. We are talking about globalisation and we also need to adapt the administration to the development of society. – We will do everything we can to help and especially invite you from the opposition to participate.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9313	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 813 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and with that the draft law has been adopted. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is the majority again. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Mayer and comrades on the mutual recognition of fines or fines by the Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, and this rejects the request. 6. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (670 of the Supplements): Protocol amending the European Convention on Transboundary Television (814 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9377	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. First, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic spoke. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9401	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Although I am now speaking as a counter-reder, I would like to say that after a short internal debate, we will agree to this item on the agenda. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] – The attention in this House is currently so "conceivable" that I believe that it will not shake the Republic in its foundations, as we are now acting on this point, but it should also be possible to form an opinion, and we have done so. What we criticize is that this European Convention sets minimum standards. We are also prepared to adopt these minimum standards, but we believe that the implementation of some of the points contained in them is not too rosy in Austria or that it would be possible to go beyond these minimum standards. For example, when it comes to advertising products that are dangerous to health, particularly in the context of major international events, with Formula 1 races, we believe that even if huge lobbying interests are behind it, it would have failed in the interests of health protection to go beyond the minimum standards. Secondly, I would like to say that – and this is a point that is especially dear to my heart: This Directive includes the right to effective response for individuals who have been violated by means of media statements in their rights. There have been such proceedings – I am thinking of proceedings between the head of the Carinthian state and private persons – and we know that the right to counter was not or has been implemented very sluggishly by courts. That is to say, I think the note in the explanations that Austria has already implemented all of this in the various media laws, at least in practice because of the experience is not sustainable. Mr State Secretary! Therefore, we would expect to see a significant improvement in this area – it will be clear what it looks like to the Judicatur – in the sense of protecting private rights. As I said, We agree with the minimum standards today.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9450	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9497	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Given the "great" developments in the media sector – government coalition takes over the majority in the bodies of the ORF, the law changes, makes provisions that bring the ORF financially into the Bredouille, and others – one has almost a bad conscience to speak to a "small" point, but it is the duty of a Member not only to see the "great" contexts, but also to take care of the details. In fact, this whole proposal is only an amendment which results from the fact that the Council of Europe's proposals are adapted to the directives in the field of the European Union in the meantime. Only in Article 32 are reservations regulated, and this provision states: "When signing or depositing the instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession" – only at that time – "any State can declare that it reserves the right" against some of the rules which it considers to be closer to than in this Regulation on advertising, to express a reservation. In other words, on the issue of alcohol advertising, in which borders are narrower in Austria, i.e. advertising for high-percentage spirit drinks, is not permitted for spirits, we could say: We have a reservation: No one can bring in a programme that includes such advertising! Of course, this does not matter to the current signatorys. But if further accessions are to be made in the future and this will perhaps play a role, it would be too late because Austria can only express this reservation once, and now or never again! Now it is not necessary, in the future it may be necessary. – For this reason, it would be useful to express this reservation now. If it is not necessary, then nothing else has happened, but at least one would have taken precautions if this regulation were to be interrupted by the television of another country. We have put this question in committee, and we have received very funny answers, very positive answers from the Secretary of State. I am not here now to call him "da capo" for the plenary; I know he will also show funny reactions here. As much as I appreciate funny reactions, I would also like to have an in-depth answer to the question: Wouldn't it be appropriate and prudent for Austria to express this reservation? Even if the Secretary of State, and therefore Austria, did not decide what I would regret, we would nevertheless vote in favour of the proposal. We only believe that it would be prudent for our country to consider such a reservation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9549	I am now interrupting the debate on item 6 of the agenda so that the urgent request for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure Mr Doris Buresund comrades on the adjustment of pensions at least with the inflation rate (522/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9579	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 522/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9758	I give the floor to Mrs Bures as an applicant for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed your speaking time, ladies and gentlemen, the duration of 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9783	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The urgency of this proposal is therefore due to the fact that a decision on the adjustment of the pension is imminent and because there are statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of State that this pension adjustment would not include any consideration of inflation trends. Federal Minister! If you plan to do so, this means a further reduction in pensions, and social democracy will never give its approval to this process! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the context of income development among pensioners in Austria, of course, one must also bear in mind the burdens they have experienced in the last one and a half years by the policy of this Social Minister through the politics of this Federal Government. It was a non-social burden policy that greatly affected the elderly. Due to the reductions in benefits you have decided in the area of pension insurance, you have brought the pensioners by a volume of 53 billion schilling, which you have withheld from them. These were benefits that were very important for the elderly and for those who already had the pension in mind in their life planning. They have created deterioration in the re-regulation of pension adjustments, and this means less money for pensioners. You have abolished the early retirement pension due to reduced employment, you have raised the age of retirement for early retirement, you have tightened the fees for early retirement and thus put the pensioners to money, you have made massive reductions in widowed and widowed pensions, and you have made deterioration in the invalidity pension. – This is what this blue-black government has to answer! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, this has not put an end to the scrapping rate of this Federal Government, because it has taken additional measures, namely massive cuts in the health system. I hope you all know that, especially in the area of the health system, older people are seriously affected that they are just older people who need this health system to a particular extent. You have raised the prescription fees, you have introduced an increase in hospital fees, and you have taken a completely absurd measure – that has been said to you by experts earlier, and this is what experts tell you today – that is, you have been burdening the pensioners and the sick people by introducing the non-social ambulance fees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All these non-social measures you have taken have a dramatic impact: They've fueled inflation! You cannot talk about international developments – there is home-made inflation in Austria that you have to answer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! This is quite easy to prove with numbers: While the inflation rate was 1.3 percent in 1997, 0.9 percent in 1998 and 0.6% in 1999 and well below the European average, it accounted for 2.3 percent in 2000 – government responsibility: blue-black coalition – and is forecast to be 2.6 percent in 2001. This is the Austrian inflation rate that you are responsible for, because large parts are homemade, and which, of course, is by far no longer below the EU average, but at best in the middle, if not even above. This enormous trend in inflation is due to your stress rate, and this inflation means that for people everything in this country has become more expensive, that they can't afford to do some more, and it actually reduces income and, in addition, reduces pensions by your policies. You have already decided in 2000 a pension adjustment with a micky 0.8 percent and a very modest one-time payment that you assured – at an inflation rate of 2.3 percent! In 2000, due to your policy, pensioners had to purchase pension reductions. That's what you have to answer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do you really know what the real situation of pensioners looks like, Mr. Federal Minister? – You don’t know, otherwise your policy couldn’t look like that! I'll tell you: There are about 1.9 million pensioners in Austria, and the incomes of men average at 15 843 S and in women with 9 240 S. This is the average age pension. And these people with these incomes burden you with your politics and with significant cuts! We call for a fair pension adjustment for the elderly. To all of this comes that you permanently scatter sand into people's eyes. You're a pensioner, you've precipitated that the pensions have been secured. However, there have been very primitive cuts – as I have already said – and in reality you have shifted the problem from pension insurance to unemployment insurance. We have – and I hope the number will remain in your mind and there are countermeasures on your part – to increase unemployment by 102 percent through your pension schemes and your difficulties in pension schemes for over 60 years of age in this country. There are 102 percent more people over 60 years of age and unemployed! And they are not only unemployed, but because you have moved them from pension insurance to unemployment insurance, they also have less income. You are also the Minister of Social Affairs – you will in no way be satisfied with this name! – to answer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Much has already been said about security today, so I would like to say that there is something like social security, but instead of creating security, which is the task of a government, this day provides more uncertainty in the population. They have pre-accelerated a pension model which should lead to the financing of the pension system. A few weeks later, Mr. Federal Chancellor directed all employees that they should be up to 65. If life were to remain in employment, otherwise the system would not be eligible for funding. They're gonna rush people a little bit! Do you know what seems strange? – In the Council of Ministers there is an early retirement model for the public service on the table. According to this model, officials with 55 years of age and 80 percent of the contributions – in reality – are to be forced into retirement. This model means to an official: If he works longer, he is still punished, because if he does not retire at the age of 55, he will later receive less pension. This is absurd, if, on the other hand, we are dealing with a regulation in the ASVG, according to which metal workers, construction workers, salesmen who often have health problems, until the last day, as long as they are only half-lived in health, have to stand in operation, in working life, at the request of the Federal Chancellor up to 65, otherwise they have to expect massive pension reductions. – These are your ideas, you have to answer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has become very calm about the FPÖ on this question, it seems to be somehow submerged here. I remember: 1999: an inflation rate of 0.6 percent, a pension increase of 1.5 percent, more than the double. Old Partyobmann Haider observed at the time: That's too little, that's a farce! Mr. Haigermoser! In 1994 you submitted a petition for a pension adjustment. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I didn't do anything! Don't put anything on my mind, Mrs. Colleague. Take it back! This is an untruth that you claim!]] They said it was a question of paying off the inflation rate anyway, otherwise it would be a farce. Where are you today? – Bad calls, but on the subject one cannot find anything from the FPÖ, even from the head of state Haider! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! We will already help you get to the top, we will make sure that these documents are re-appeared in the archives of the FPÖ, because we should also remind the citizens of your election promises, because perhaps we can also send the citizens to your alleged citizens' representation, to the "Bürgerombudsmann". In my opinion – it is not heard from him that he would have to do innumerable things – there is no such thing as your 66 000 S income limit or the FPÖ social fund. - It's all got to be a little dizzy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ, the Social Democracy, shows a serious, sincere and responsible, socially just way of dealing with our seniors. This generation has built this country, has made this country what it is, has brought this country this prosperity – and it deserves the respect of all here in this house. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Therefore, it is not possible for us Social Democrats to see that we do not want to see if you intend to make massive pension cuts again. We call for at least the consideration of inflation, which means 2.9% increase for pensioners in this country. The elderly Austrians have truly deserved this after a working life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I hope there will be a greater understanding of this federal government in dealing with politics at all. I think, by the brilliant outcome of the ÖGB original vote, that this coalition has the opportunity to make a change of course, to change course from driving away from a conflict democracy to consensus, to debate with those concerned, to discuss the interests, instead of shortening at the Green Table, overdoing them, to introduce social injustices. That is why I am saying this because it should also be a concern of the ÖVP. We are talking about dialogue, including the representations of interests, and Mr Bruckmann did at the meeting of the Austrian Senior Council on 3 October. It was agreed on October when it came to at least implementing the inflation rate. I am already looking forward to how he will act in the vote today. The Austrian Council of Senior Officials has also, although not many, but a few representatives of the FPÖ, and they have also voted in favour. – I would therefore recommend that you focus more on the interests, because without a doubt they know better than you do, as it is done! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My appeal: Take the seniors' representatives seriously, deal with their demands and do not make any pension reductions, which you have actually done last year! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: climate!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Vranitzky!]] Federal Minister! I always have some hope, even in politics, but I have not really much hope, in view of this policy and in view of some government leaders, that we come to this social dialogue, because we have a social minister with you, who simply wipes social problems from the table, which at best tells them away or beautiful. Why do I say that? – If you, Minister of State, have been in public over the last few months, then it was your main concern to fabricate any luxury dreamage à la Fabel, then you have actually got rid of women’s policy in this country, then you have made any carnival offers – I say only Section VI/6, which does not take anyone seriously in that country – then you have made it the main task of making the main association of social security providers into an arbitrary censorship authority. Finally, you have taken taxpayers' money that employees are hard to generate and invest in an extremely common advertising campaign, namely an advertising campaign that exclusively spreads party propaganda. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What is a "common advertising campaign"?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You didn't mean that!]] In other words, the social concerns of the people, the social concerns of women, the social concerns of pensioners and pensioners in truly bad hands! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you didn't mean that now!]] I spoke of hope earlier: There is, of course, the hope that this Parliament and the Members will distance themselves from the path taken by this government, from this non-social policy. You have announced it, you have formulated it that you are for the inflation penalty. You can act today! You can prove your statements today, and we will see if you are credible or if you say one and do the other, as we have unfortunately experienced in the past. Today, we would have the opportunity to find and decide on a fair path, because the pensioners have been asked to pay for the cash in the last two years. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore invite you to submit our motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations to "submit a government proposal stating that pensions for 2002 are at least at the rate of inflation for the period 1st. ==References== In July 2001, i.e. 2.9 percent, will be increased". Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have a chance to bring justice to pensioners.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9974	On the issue of an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations Mag. Mainly reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9995	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bures! As a response to the urgent request you have made, I think it is necessary to clarify some things. The figures mentioned in the first paragraph of your request are not understandable to me or to the officials of my house – who are the same as those who under my predecessor Hostash held these functions. As far as the measures you have criticized here and the finances you have presented here are concerned, no word of them corresponds to reality. I should like to point out to you that the opinion that is also available to you, which is based on the invitation of the Committee on Pensions, which will meet this week, clearly shows that the figures look different. I should like to point out to you that, in the pension insurance institution of employees, the actual figures do not amount to 43.3 billion schillings less, but to 25.4381 billion schillings more, and that, as far as the total cost of pensions is concerned, according to GSVG, ASVG and the pension insurance institution of farmers, there is an estimated increase of 29.2882 billion in 2001, 2002 and 2003. [[Abg. Silhavy:... not serious argumented!]] [[Abg. Huber: There are more pensions there!]] I should also like to point out that the savings potential, whose implementation this Federal Government has taken into account in its forecasts from 2004 onwards, amount to 15 billion, resulting in a significant deviation from the figures you have mentioned. [[Abg. Huber: Have you calculated your budget as well?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've been listening to you in peace. I do not think one should be here before one has made the comparison with one's own figures and one's own Preamble to the urgent request and could follow my statements completely, in intermediate calls apostrophic outrage. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Schwarzenberger.]] Dear Mrs Bures! The system of net adjustment that you have brought to the meeting here is an invention of red-black and no invention of the black-blue government. It was decided in the 1990s. I should like to point out to you that under the current government formed by the Freedom Party and the Austrian People's Party, there has never been an adjustment like that in 1997 when, apart from a small one-off payment, there has been nothing. [[Abg. Haigermoser: ( towards SPÖ) What is now?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of SPÖ) You have drawn the money out to the pensioners!]] I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should not forget what we decided at the time. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of the Abg. Edlinger) That's it, Rudi!]] Dear Mrs Bures! Since you and some of your colleagues in the political groups, as well as I, have heard this House in 1996 and 1997, I can remind you already that from this point of view, the assumption of school and study periods in pension insurance was only possible by post-purchasing that the increased requirements for early retirement on the 1st day of the year. ==References== It was adopted in January 1997 that the age of seizure for early retirement was increased to 57 years because of the incapacity of men. There was also a change in the calculation of pensions by introducing for the first time reductions in early retirement – then 56 years for women and 61 years for men. Their "performance" was also the introduction of the period of 24 months in the case of disability, incapacity for work and incapacity for work. Their project was the introduction of the principle of "rehabilitation before retirement". Their project was the introduction of payments of 70 S to 180 S per day for rehabilitation and health care measures. Their measure was the changeover to pension payment in retrospect. Their measure was the increase of the prescription fee from 35 S to 42 S at the time, and also the introduction of the health certificate fee by 1. January 1997 was one of the measures you have taken. I admit, Mrs Bures: We've introduced the ambulance charges. I say in just as clear a point, however, that we have also made it quite clear in the case of ambulance charges – and you have rightly said that the average pension for women in this country is 9 800 S and that of men is not quite 16 000 S – first of all, that there are social derogations in the form of exemption. Secondly, we have actually expected the representatives of the workers in the health insurance institutions to carry out an information campaign – that is, the intention now underlying my listings – for those who, throughout the year, suffer from sickness and multiple payments in all these areas that have been decided in your time, and on the basis of the costs of our time-based health insurance scheme, so that they can also learn of the possibility of applying and reimbursing at the end of the year additional costs that go beyond 8 000 S net to their respective health insurance institution. However, it was not necessary for health insurance institutions to publish all the reliefs available to the insured persons in a timely, proper and informative manner. I should also like to point out that there have been a number of meetings in the main association, with directives or regulations in June of this year on an agreed approach to the collection of fees by hospitals throughout Austria or the individual health insurance companies. I should also like to point out that, because I was concerned about the fact that the procedure in the hospitals in connection with data collection and data recalculation in the individual health insurance institutions would not properly go through the stage, in several letters to colleagues Sallmutter and the management in the main association at that time, and asked that the data be checked accordingly in order to determine whether the data is actually properly collected and the patients are not insured by false or over-exposed accounts and multiple accounts. I asked myself to go to 43. Week – especially since it was not until 19th. It has entered into force on April – to indicate whether all these measures have been taken. At the end of August, I was assured by all health insurance companies and the main association that all data, all fees collection and so on would be in order and that the process would be almost "watertight" – as would be said in the folk mouth. Today, we know from health insurance companies that they are confronted with significant complaints, because the patients are being called for payments unfairly or to an excessive extent. We know that there are multiple prescriptions that have not been properly taken into account. We know that different IT masks have been delivered by different carriers, so that there has been massive computer programming errors in the hospitals with several health insurance providers. All that I have asked to take into account and to stop in order not to insure the patients and the sick in this country has not happened. And the reconnaissance, which was still accredited within the main association under the leadership of President Sallmutter, has never reached the hospitals and the individual institutions, for how it would otherwise be explained that in the last few weeks all patients have been referred directly to the Health Ministry's hotline for advice and the advice of the insured persons on their request to their health insurance companies has not been carried out by them themselves. I also say quite clearly that this behaviour was important to me for the 59. ASVG-Novelle to include an obligation to inform patients in order finally to ensure that all patients in Austria are treated equally in all health insurance companies and are properly informed of all derogations, all social reasons and any recovery possibilities that exist within our social security system. I can only explain the resistance to these regulations by saying that, obviously, one is still – at least with those who up until now do not advise the insured ones, but who refer them directly to the ministry – not interested in properly consulting its own contributors, its own insured persons in the future. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Talk about the retention of pensions!]] I hope that this attitude will be reversed within the institutions and within the main association, because I consider this attitude to be incorrect to the insured, to the contributors. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Talk about the pensions, Mr. Haupt!]] In this context, I should also like to point out the following: The statements of colleagues Salmutter, according to which we have inherited a deficit of almost 5 billion schilling – between 4.9 and 5.1 billion schilling – in social security, in health insurance, according to the main association, are rereadable to everyone. [[Abg. Parnigoni:... the pensioners!]] Mr Parnigoni! At present, we know that the actual deficit could be reduced to 3.1 billion schilling due to the measures of the Federal Government, and we also know that an additional cost reduction effect of 800 million schilling can be achieved with the ambulance fees. [[Abg. Parnigoni:... the pensioners!]] We also know, Mr Parnigoni, that in spite of a highly judicial findings from 1997 the formation of group practices to ensure or improve the comprehensive care for patients in the extramural area was by the majority in the main association of the Austrian social security institutions – and that was not the free and not the representatives of the Austrian People's Party! - has been prevented. Also from the opinion reported last week in the "Tyrol daily newspaper", it is clear that this non-admission of group practices has led to an expensive effect and not to an approval of the system. I should also like to point out that, in the interests of patients, we have also achieved a significant reduction in drug costs: While in the Federal Republic of Germany, where red-green governs, medications continue to become significantly more expensive than 10 percent per year, the corresponding increase rates in Austria are currently between 3 and 4 percent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So we have not forgotten what we have promised – if it is not possible to change everything we have inherited from one day to another. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What do the pensioners have of it?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to draw your attention to the year 2000. You, Mrs Bures, have said that in 2000 there was a basic charge of 0.8 per cent and a ridiculous - if I have heard correctly - one-time payment. . Let me compare what the proposals made by Mr Blecha for the pensioners would have meant to this small one-time payment by the Federal Government: In the case of a pension of 10 000 S: 1 417 S – proposed and realized by this Federal Government. – Compared to the Blecha proposal: 0.7 percent, that is 992 S – a minus for these pensioners! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: After servus! Listen, listen!]] For a pension of 12 000 S: 1 600 S balance. – Compared with the proposal of Blecha: 0.7 percent, i.e. 1 188 p. At 15 000 S pension: 1 600 S balance. – On the contrary, Mr Blecha's proposal: 0.7 percent of the pension, which is 1 482 S. The Blechas application still leads to a lower result for pensioners! [[Abg. Grabner: You don't believe that!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What does the Blecha have against the pensioners?]] I should like to point out to you that Mrs. Bures 9 800 S is the average pension for women in Austria, 15 900 S the average pension for men. [[Abg. Bures: You cut the pensions!]] For the members of an average pension, for pensioners with small incomes, the realization of the pension increase provided by the Federal Government was also quite clear – black and white – better than it would have been the request of Mr Blecha, who would have planned 0.7 percent. [[Call the SPÖ: Black on blue!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We didn't forget what we promised: We have promised to pay attention to the little people and to take due account of the small people. Mrs Bures, you should therefore compare the figures and the facts here. What you have taken into account is, of course, the reduction in pension contributions in tax legislation for pensioners from 20 000 S, which is not a question for pensioners, and it should also be said clearly and clearly, but it is a contribution by the older generation to state rehabilitation, a contribution by those pensioners of Austria who, with their incomes in the top 80 percent, are not in the area of the lowest 80 percent, Mrs Bures! [[Abg. Bures: They're all being thrown out, Minister!]] We have looked at the "small" people in this country and have not redistributed them to the great ones – in order to say this clearly and clearly and finally to remove this accusation from the world! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I also say the following in all clarity: As a Social Minister, I would have liked to give all pensioners, up to higher incomes, the corresponding percentages and perhaps to give up some more. But I am not a social minister like at the time when it was thought that a few million Schilling debts were more insignificant in this state, and some unemployed people were preferable to Mr. Kreisky. The policy that Kreisky has begun has ultimately led to this federal government having to bind up a restructuring package. [[Abg. Silhavy: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I too, as a Minister of Social Affairs, support this restructuring package. We have to comply with this restructuring package in the interests of all generations and to implement it accordingly in the interests of all generations. I am least interested as a Social Minister in breaking a generation conflict in this Republic, as it is obviously a concern for some of you to return to the government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you look at these measures, Mrs Bures, you must say, I think, that we have taken very promising steps with them. Since you have also referred to invalidity pensions and their taxation in your application and in your speech, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the only deterioration in this area, namely the level of actual invalidity pension, when you meet income from working income, is a measure you still have in 1997, with the effectiveness of 1. January 2001, have met. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Bures) Aha! Oh! You've decided that yourself, and now you're criticizing it! It's not bad either!]] Push So please take measures that are now effective, but for which you have still made the decision, not us in the shoes! If you are correct and have a correct policy, you also take responsibility for those measures you have decided to take, Mrs Bures! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's probably the biggest thing: they decide this and then they criticize it!]] Another thing: As a Social Minister, I have managed to negotiate 600 million schillings in order to allow a refund for the persons involved in invalidity pensions in the lower incomes. I am very glad that, as a result of our advertisements in the daily newspapers, those who are affected have finally begun to apply for the refund, because I believe that the groups concerned, to which we grant a refund, really need the money. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Silhavy]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Then do not take it away from them before!]] The number of applications received is a clear sign that it was necessary to turn these ads on: From expected 35 000 to 45 000 requests at the end of August, only 5 000 were received from us, and only on the basis of the ads did it start slowly that the applications now – I would say almost "lawless" – arrive; only in the last week it was 5 000. I do not think there has been an advertisement that had as much restraint in the population as I did, because the people concerned have finally come to believe that it is more reasonable now to get the money back quickly than to wait for your promised complaints to be taken into account sometime – if, according to the assessments of my legal experts, then probably no longer in the next few years. People are thanking God, becoming more reasonable. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Bures, if you are talking about an unexpected information campaign – and I believe you have referred to it – as you have not known in the past, with tax money, I would like to point out to you: If you look at campaigns of your own, former federal government, then you will notice that there is the formulation "The SPÖ government has promised and kept" standard was. The wording I have chosen here was used by you even in your government time and especially in election times, indicating your achievements. Secondly, I should also like to point out that you were about to give the public the impression that all the measures that are direct payments would be an invention of this federal government and would not have been possible for a long time – some of them for more than ten years! It is therefore not necessary to take responsibility for this federal government either because it has neither introduced it nor increased it to the current level. I therefore believe, Mrs Bures, that the old folk wisdom applies here: As you call into the forest, so it should be back. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes!]] – I should also like to point out that some of the health insurance companies – I am expressly just saying – have also carried out the money of the insured issues, which had nothing to do with the legal reality and information of the insured. [[Abg. Kiss: Pigry!]] If you are so presumptuous about criticizing the handling of the tax money with me, I would like to ask you to be penable enough and to ask your representatives in the main association, something that was, in my view, much worse – because it was not yet in conformity with the law – to fail in the future. – Thank you, Mrs. Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10416	We are now entering the debate. The speaking time per speaker shall not exceed 10 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time for each club shall not exceed 25 minutes. Mr Dietachmayr was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10464	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundesminister, right at the beginning: Over 2 million pensioners have now waited to receive an answer from you, namely an answer to the question: Will the inflation of the past, the current and the next year be paid off – yes or no? – We have put this question to you in our urgent request, which is before you. You refused the answer, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I insist: 2 million pensioners are waiting for this answer. [[Abg. Achatz: You have submitted an application and no request!]] You have told us everything possible about Germany and the past, but the people who are now in retirement and who are going to retire in the next few years – Mr Haigermoser, I will come to you then extra, I will remind you of your promises – these people are waiting for a clear answer. [[Abg. Haigermoser: It's too thin, the soup!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The soup is too thin!]] So that we can save ourselves a correction: You are responsible for the accident pension tax, Federal Minister! [[New call for tender of the Abg. ==References====External links== Dr. Pumberger.]] And with regard to this effort, which you carry out with the advertising campaign and with the refund: You know for yourself that people have no right to the refund! I do not want to talk about all the bureaucratic effort involved. Ladies and gentlemen! This accident pension tax is also a coup. Take it back immediately! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! You will also receive the documents yourself. I do not want to go into detail because this has already been done by my predecessor to address all the burdens that have been imposed on workers and, of course, also on pensioners. One thing is clear, however, that if we take stock of 43.3 billion schilling of burdens on workers and pensioners, as well as on pensioners, we will come out of a discharge of 3.7 billion schilling for entrepreneurs. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Chief.]] If you do not believe these figures, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to present you with the relevant documents so that you can read them yourself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a requirement of fairness that pensioners, who have only built Austria to this economically powerful state with a high social standard of living, do not eat with alms. The 1,6 per cent pension adjustment planned by this government does not at all testify to social warmth that you are always talking about. It is also economically reasonable to maintain the purchasing power of millions of pensioners and to pay them at least the inflation rate as part of the pension adjustment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Even though pensioners cannot really resist economic deterioration or threaten strike, the government would be well advised not to underestimate the great power of the older generation, which has still proved effective on election days. The insurmountable increase in the retirement age, the accident pension tax, the introduction of ambulance charges, the thinning of the regions and the savings in safety have been clearly felt by the older generation in particular. This means not only an impairment of the quality of life, but also a reduction in the amount of money available to these people. I would like to refer to a quote from our President Dr. Klestil, who recently said the following to the Austrian Senior Council: The seniors will "as that generation enter into history, in whose lifetime the unique reconstruction and resurgence of Austria has succeeded in a peaceful and free Europe! And that's why we've also worked on the social network of our own, which we can rightly be proud of." So the words of the President of the Federal Republic. And what does this government do? – It makes exactly the opposite: Federal Chancellor Schüssel threatens the senior representatives with a pension adjustment of only 1.6 percent and adds: There's no more grotesques! – Ladies and gentlemen, this must be broken on the tongue! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger:... zero percent 1997!]] "Inadvertently" in the budget, it is precisely for an increase of 1.6 percent – that is 4.9 billion schilling – that has been taken care of. However, the problem lies in the sharp increase in inflation. I can already imagine how you came to this figure: When the budget for the year 2000 was drawn up, there was still a 1.5 percent expected inflation. - Yeah, that might have been the end of the inflation bill. But precisely because of your actions, which my previous speaker has already mentioned, you have contributed to the fact that the inflation rate has increased enormously and will probably continue to rise next year. Last year, the government tried to correct the protests of pensioners by saying that next year a pension increase above the inflation rate would be due. As mentioned above, the rate of inflation for the relevant period is 2.9 percent. However, the German Chancellor and the Federal Government do not want to know anything about the promised rate of inflation. I therefore call on the Federal Government to set the adjustment factor by at least 2.9%, so that at least the inflation rate is covered. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Any other percentage, ladies and gentlemen, would not only weaken the purchasing power of the older generation, but would simply rob pensioners. I say this with all the clarity: Yes, that's rogue if you don't give in here! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] I should like to remind you once again of what amounts we are talking about here – the numbers have already been mentioned, but I would like to mention them again for the listeners: The average age pension in 2000 was 15 843 s for men and 9 240 p. for women – we are talking about these amounts, and that is why an inflation rate is fully justified here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The pensioners also voted unanimously against the definition of FPÖ and ÖVP to recover the supposedly overly high pension adjustments of the nineties from the pensioners. I can only say: This method is not only unfair, it is also unscrupulous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would remind you once again, Mr Haigermoser, of the statements of your former party observer, who was the then pension increase, which was substantially above the inflation rate, as a "improvement of pensioners" – literal quote! - referred to. [[Abg. Haigermoser: There we have had another inflation rate, Mr President.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: A lower one!]] The then representative and current Social Minister has even criticized her as "peanuts". He said the increase was "panuts"! Now I can tell you what these peanuts look like: From 1970 to 1999, pension developments looked to have increased by 327.6 percent in real pensions. [[Abg. Haigermoser:... There was even better riding!]] If inflation is deducted, a 34 percent increase in purchasing power for the older generation will remain in the years 1970 to 1999. – 34 percent plus, while you have caused a minus in recent years! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am curious about what Mr Bruckmann, who has also spoken for full inflation in the Council of Senior Citizens, will say. More: He claimed that the pensioner index had been established for the period from August 2000 to 31 August 2000 for the value assurance period. ==References====External links==* Official website In fact, the price of pensioners is 0.9 percent higher than the normal consumer price index. Mr Bruckmann! I am very excited to see if you will agree to our urgent request. Ladies and gentlemen! There are still a number of demands that the Federal Government should remember well. In its last meeting, the Council of Seniors decided unanimously on a whole package of claims. As already mentioned, the representatives of the liberals in this body have also agreed. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I would also ask you once again to take back the ambulance fee. I refer to the study of the Landeskrankenhaus Innsbruck, which became known a few days ago, after the ambulance visits come much cheaper than visiting established doctors.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10652	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote. The speaking time is exhausted.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10667	This coalition has taken the claim to be measured by its actions. I therefore urge you to create the conditions immediately for pensions to pay at least the inflation rate in 2002.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10697	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10764	I'll demand that the opposition withdraw. Isn't that something new? [[Cheerfulness among the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Helmut Dietachmayr! You're in the house a long time, you're none of the new arrivals who don't know what happened a few years ago. I can remember: In Austria, too, in politics and, above all, in Austria, the Ben Akiba, who said: It's all been there before. I can remember that, when it came to negotiating or finding out what an adjustment factor there is to be for the year 1997, I was sitting in the committee concerned. I was in opposition at the time. I have demonstrated – and others with me, and the media and the experts have done so too – that the adjustment of the inflation rate did not match, with the word "inflation rate" being handled with caution, at the time like today, because in reality, movements of 1.5 or 2.5 percent are not what our parents understood by inflation. It looked different. That was a few hundred or a few thousand percent a year and at the end there were monetary reforms. But we both know what we mean. But it wasn't enforceable at the time. The chancellor then called Vrannitzky and the then Minister of Finance, if I have observed this correctly, is President of Rapid today – where is he? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Descent candidate!]] He's at Rapid's, he just went to the square. I belong to another football club, Admira Wacker Mödling. Both of us are now relatively far behind in the table, but I will do everything I can to measure myself with the former Minister in this sector as well. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Without sick?- Oh, my God!]] That means: It's all been there before! There is no such thing as the so-called Vranckky letter now. Can you remember the Vranitzky letter? There's a chancellor there... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Den has written Cap!]] – You wrote that, Mr. Cap? This is Pulitzer-Preis-delicious, because that was an interesting letter. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] The chancellor wrote to every pensioner – we wondered where he had all the addresses here – a letter with the following wording: I assure my Chancellor – it was not quite that way, but so similar – that there will be no reduction in pensions. And then the election was over, and everyone had less in the Sackerl. [[Abg. Gaugg: Now we know who laid Vrnitzky's egg!]] Speaking, the chancellor said: I have not promised that pensions will not be taxed more. You have not lost because the pensions have been reduced, they have just been taxed more, and I have not promised. Read it carefully! – If I knew Cap had formulated it so skillfully! So all respect in this context! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He laid the egg on Vranckky!]] How did Lenin say so right? Being determines consciousness. – You have a completely different view now that you are in opposition – a very unusual role for the previously victorious and powerful Social Democratic Party – than at the time when you were in the government. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: And you stayed the same!]] But it is also the request that Mrs Bures has called serious, anything but serious. It is a urgent request, but this urgent request does not appear, for example, in a specific request, which reads as follows: So and so much percent are supposed to get the pensioners on it, but one asks another to work. That is, the proposal of the Social Democratic Party does not include anything material at all, it includes the call for the government to submit a government proposal. That's weird. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's the very best!]] The urgent request as well as the urgent request are tools of opposition in Parliament. But if the opposition does not give up the strength or courage to write into the request what it wants, but calls on the government to do something that it apparently does not even want to take into its mouth, then that is anything but serious. It's new, but it's not beautiful! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: This is a witness of poverty!]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is also more than strange when, in the form of their Finance Ministers, that party, which for three decades has thrown the money out to the window in full hands, laments the fact that, according to its claim, a very important population group is somewhat too short in further development, in the case of the elderly, in the case of pension adjustment. This is the party that has enabled us all to save now, where it is only possible that we cannot now be as generous as we would like the Social Minister not to be as generous as he would certainly be – already from his political position –! It is you who are responsible for it by your finance ministers that we stand there as we now stand that we must be saved at all corners and ends that we can no longer be generous. Where did the exaggerated generosity – this would not be an exaggeration at all? – To a mountain of debt, which is absolutely invincible! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And if the new government, consisting of the liberals and the People's Party, sends itself to cut down this debt mountain, quickly to cut down – for only those who act quickly will win in the race with the time – then you will come and say: There you have to pay a little more, and there you have to pay a little more, and don't save it, and stop it. – This is a bear service that you provide to the Austrian economy, with the economy of all employers, all employees and with them all pensioners, the entire Austrian population and the Republic of Austria. This new government, in particular its Minister of Finance, has started a decade work, a work that has stimulated positive attention across Europe, namely: End with re-indebtedness in the Republic and deficit reduction until the zero deficit is reached! And you have no other concern than to try to find out where possible, to put the government in a clamp so that it can't make any difference but to make debts again, and its promise to give up debt and to lead the Republic ad absurdly in proper economic conditions. I have the impression that some of you – I don't suppose most of you – are delighted that the world economy is not as booming as it was one or two years ago that it was said it's not good, but at least it's hard for Grasser to have his zero deficit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] I don't think I think you're too high, most of you I don't, but in one or another I have the impression that he's thinking: "Thanks to God, the world economy is bad, because then Grasser and the liberals are going badly." – Such a short-sighted view is not strange to one or another of you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Jarolim, for example!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You, Harald, only for the Minutes: At your own urgent request, not even a third of the Members are present! That you document that once!]] – They have determined that this is not a fame leaf, and have preferred to go out into the smoking area or similar. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] That was a vote with the feet, as it is so beautiful. You've been away at times. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Please do not overlook one: Especially the pursuit and achievement of a zero deficit is something that has to be particularly important and especially important to older people. What's at the other end of the tunnel if it's not run through? – At the other end is the complete collapse of the pension system! That is to say, those who now put you in protection are those who have to be first and foremost interested in saving iron that things are getting under control, that the zero deficit is not only aimed at, but also achieved, for otherwise they are the ones who have to pay the token. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I cannot imagine that I have been talking for 10 minutes, but since I see the signal here, I would like to start by referring to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Ofner, Dr. To bring to the attention of Feurstein and colleagues on pension adjustment for the year 2002, which reads: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is the request that I ask you to take into account and to vote in favour of it. But I can't resist another feeling, and that's: After all that has happened in discussions on the fight against terrorism and security in the last few days and weeks everywhere in Austria and today in the house, the opposition looks quite old. You did not think anything about this issue at all, you have not developed any ideas on the issue of security, increased security. [[Abg. Parnigoni: How much do you give the pensioners now?]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] They were shy at all corners and ends and didn't make any contribution, some rejected him, others just didn't mind. [[Abg. Parnigoni: How much do pensioners get now?]] And now the distraction maneuver is coming.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11020	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11036	That is the final point, Mr President. Now you want the population to forget or that they do not realize clearly that the social democrats are actually behind the scene. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Say what the pensioners get!]] And now you're changing the subject, now you're talking about terror and security, we're talking about something else, we're talking about the weather. And we're talking about things that have nothing to do with security and terror. Parnigoni, you can yell as loud as you like, I'll tell you again...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11065	Please, speaking time is speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11081	... The population doesn't take this from you!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11111	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. It has a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes, therefore 2 minutes reserve. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11141	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is true, Mr Dietachmayr: We have taken action and want to be measured by the actions! – And I hope that it is also so with you that you are measured by the actions and not by the speeches you give. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You shouldn't!]] Today we are again experiencing the annual exercise of the opposition to submit a request for pension increase. This is an annual exercise that once he comes from this side, the other time from the other side. Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of content, Mr Ofner is perfectly right if he claims: After all, pensions can only be guaranteed by having healthy state finances. And if you don't accept this – healthy state finances to secure pensions – it's going beyond the problem! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In order to ensure this, something second is necessary – and you know from the SPÖ that this is absolutely necessary! –: Reforms are needed, constant reforms are needed to ensure our social system. We have made constant reforms in the years of the SPÖ and ÖVP common policies in order to preserve and secure our system, and now you deny these reforms. It is to regret that you suddenly distance yourself from it and say that everything that is being changed is bad. By doing so, you prove yourself on the wood road. Without reforms, there is no social security, ladies and gentlemen. This is the second important point I want to put into space. Whoever does not recognise that reforms are being made, does not recognise that our social system cannot be secured otherwise. This is a very crucial point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Yes, we have changed the points raised in the SPÖ's request and are criticised. We insist that the retirement age has been increased for early retirement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] – Yes, I hope you see that too. This is a pleasant call, Mr President. There are many businesses, and you know them, who no longer have enough jobs for their older workers. And I welcome the fact that these companies are setting up social plans for older workers so that they do not fall back to nothing and unemployment. I welcome this way, and I hope that you too, Mr President, will stand up for these older workers and support social plans and do not reject social plans. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. And what about the covenant?]] Mr President. I hope you understood me, and I understand that we are pursuing a common concern. I am opposed to the fact that older workers at 58, 59, 60 years of age say: You need to find a new job now, you need to find a new job. For these people, a social plan is the right means, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And I would like you as a union officer to carry this line and the older people don't... [[Abg. If, then for everyone!]] – Thank God many private companies work out these social plans as well as complying with them. I come back to the basic principles of the increase in pensions: ==References====External links== In January 2002, pensions are to be increased. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, say: The increase should be uniform 2.9 percent. – I say to you that we reject a uniform increase of 2.9 percent in principle! And I'll tell you why: This would mean that a compensation beneficiary would be close to 230 s. [[Abg. Kiss: And the head of the section?]] The head of the section – I didn't figure this out, Mr. Deputies. But I figured out what a 30,000 S-pensionist would get: That would get 870 s, that is, two and a half times, ladies and gentlemen! Is that fair? Is that socially balanced? [[Abg. Kiss: This is socialist!]] We say no to this, and that is why, together with Mr Ofner, we have tabled that request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is an application for a balanced increase in pensions to 1. On the subject of January 2002, the Council adopted a Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the We are in favour of this, and in this we are different from you from the SPÖ. [[Abg. Silhavy: What is "balance"?]] I am very glad that this distinction has once become visible. With your request, Mrs Silhavy, you have lost your competence as a social spokesperson. However, I have seen that you have not signed the request. That speaks for you again! But Mrs Bures and the others who signed this request have once again demonstrated their social competence: Nivellation, nivellation! The high incomes are to be greatly increased and small incomes are to be kept modest. I reject this, and we reject it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We'll do something else. ==References== In January 2001 – and for this I thank the Minister for the Social Affairs Council – those pensioners who receive an exit or are charged with the calculation of the compensatory allowance, which reduces the amount by one percentage point. [[Abg. Silhavy: There the farmers have a joy with it!]] We're going to do this on 1st. In January 2002, the people who have a small income with a pension of 5 000 S, 6 000 S or 7 000 S will get a little more, noticeably more. That is what we would be doing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is our position to increase pensions. And we can reject your request with good reason today. We will, after the Commission has stated, give you an alternative to the increase in the pension to 1. In January 2002, the Commission presented a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11325	The motion for a resolution by Mr Dr. Ofner, Dr. Feurstein on pension adjustment, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The speaking time is up to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11363	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard a lot in the debate: Parliamentary Feurstein has spoken of the past as such and of the fact that the debates are repeated every year, Mr Ofner has picked up a little more, that is, until the World Economic Crisis in 1929, in order to make it clear to us that things are not that bad, because in 1929 it was even worse, much worse. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You questioned!]] – In this we agree, Mr Ofner, at the time when thousands of percent of inflation were inflation, it was worse. But this is not the state of the debate, Mr Ofner. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You have to listen properly!]] What we should debate is simply and simply the fact that this year an inflation rate of 2.6 percent is expected and an inflation of 2.9 percent in that period, which is based on the calculation of the pension increase. What the Federal Government and you, Mr Feurstein, and you, Mr Ofner, offer, these are empty words, these are nothing but empty words! Mr Feurstein! I am right, I know, we know the debates of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and I can well remember a debate in 1999 where the then Social Spokesman of the Liberal Party wanted to have a massive and necessarily a pension increase that is above the inflation rate, while the representatives of the government parties – that was you from the ÖVP and the SPÖ – said at that time: We can't go that high, that would be irresponsible! But what the social speaker and current social minister asked for was a pension increase above the inflation rate, and what you were willing to do at the time was an adjustment around the inflation rate. And that makes a difference! We are now discussing an adjustment which is much lower than the inflation rate for 2001, then in 2002 and we have a year behind, Mr Feurstein, in which the adjustment was also much lower than the inflation rate. Of course, you can go here – I agree with you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties – and say that we need healthy state finances first, but then, Mr Feurstein, one must say honestly that the prerequisite for healthy state finances would be a thriving economy. We do not have those at present, and there is obviously no economic policy concept of this federal government that could somehow help the economy a little on the jumps. We have neither an economic policy concept of the Federal Government nor a thriving economy, but we have a finance minister who says: The zero deficit is the most important! But whether the growth is going back or not, the zero deficit is secured. What has the Minister of Finance shown in recent days? – Although growth is falling, this does not cause a problem for the zero deficit, because it has provided for this case by hiding some billion shillings in the budget, which means that the zero deficit can still be achieved in 2003. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This is how a decent merchant acts!]] Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. You know exactly what I want, you know what it's all about. There have been billions hidden, there has been talk of people, you have to save at all costs so that we can achieve the zero deficit, since it has been said that we must reduce this and that social benefit. In principle, however, this would not have been necessary in view of the economic data of the year 2000 or at the beginning of 2001. But the Minister of Finance wanted to take care of it. What's he doing with it? – He also slows down the economy, I can tell you that! It also slows down the economy! It manages to keep expenditure in those areas where, if they are incurred – for example, by pensioners – they immediately and immediately go into consumption, domestic consumption, into mass demand. That's your economic policy? That's what I'm Your social policy? And here you go and say, We're taking care of the little people!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr Feurstein! Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. Where have you taken care of the small people with your pension adjustment concept? Where? – What you intend to adopt today as a resolution – and you will, of course, get the majority for it – is a cloudy statement aimed at leaving everything in the dark. There is nothing specific here, Mr Feurstein. – This is too inconspicuous to me, even if you read out again about the need to provide for it. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: This is a clear statement! It says: the increase in low pension income!]] That's too inconspicuous for me, and that's also the point. I tell you one thing, Mr Feurstein, and I would ask you to listen to me. This has nothing to do with government policy or an attack on the government, but we are discussing the adjustment of inflation here. I believe that this pension adjustment near the inflation rate is justified by a compensation for small pensioners. But the sum must be about voting! It cannot be, Mr Feurstein, that those who now have a slightly higher pension do not receive an inflation adjustment and that you give something to those who have a lower pension and who do not receive an inflation adjustment. That can't be it, but the sum that accounts for 2.9 percent would have to be distributed about. And you're not willing to give that. Now I'll tell you one more thing: Let's discuss one step further! I have data on the development of average pensions for women and men. This is, as it were, the stock from which the annual adjustments can be made. The radical in this area is that women's pensions have been getting lower for years and men's pensions are getting higher. I am not saying that men's pensions are getting higher because there are also intermittent procedures, but women's pensions in the new pension schemes are getting smaller and lower. All the measures taken in recent years have not been fruitful, nothing has been done! All intentions, whether by ÖVP/SPÖ or by ÖVP/FPÖ government, have done nothing to stop this trend. Are the women working less? Do they not earn pensions which are somewhat social and which also correspond to their contribution to working life? Of course they don't work less! And you know that too. Nevertheless, you are not prepared to cause consequences in this important area. In fact, you have to take a step away from this rate of inflation, inflation rate and eternal repetition of arguments up to the world economic crisis. Everything is unscathed, a senseless theatre of discussions takes place, which really does not benefit in the form, because the arguments are shaky, because the arguments are gone, and because you have nothing to do with it, ladies and gentlemen from the government parties! You'd have to go a little deeper, then you'd see: Inflation adjustment is a necessary step, but we also need much more basic changes in the pension system – such as a basic guarantee in old age – which could allow us to equalise this difference between male and female pensions. That's the real problem! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A comment on what has been decided today, namely on "rehandling". On the one hand, it is a "new settlement" that could actually bring a little more justice if it were not linked to much lower expenditure on the handling system in the future. But one thing is clear, Mr Feurstein, and above all at the address of the ÖVP: Their concept of reconstitution into a new pension rail has died because these contributions and what people can save will in no way be enough to build a second pension column.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11462	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. The watch is gladly set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11486	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The urgent request made by us regarding the adjustment of pensions at least to inflation rates is also a call for all pensioners. Mr Federal Minister, two million people are waiting for an answer from you whether the increase in pensions will be adjusted to the inflation rate or not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 1999, the then ÖVP-FundesPartei Obmann and Vice Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel promised by hand the guarantee of the value of pensions. As Federal Chancellor, of course, he has forgotten what he has promised as Vice Chancellor. In last week's APA reports, he argues against a full payment of the inflation rate. That's a federal chancellor's attitude! [[Abg. Silhavy: scandalous!]] All the measures taken by the government take the lower levels of income, i.e. pensioners and pensioners, as well as active ones. Colleagues Dietachmayr and colleague Bures have already shown how the burden on pensioners has an impact on pensioners. If you say, Mr Feurstein, that there must be constant reforms, then it cannot be that they are carried exclusively on the back of the weak. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: We want the little earners to get more!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A special treatise is already, if it is found that there are around 1.6 million pensioners in the area of the self-employed and a federal contribution of around 30 billion Schilling is available for this, which is 13.1 percent. In the area of self-employed, there are about 385 000 pensioners, and for this the federal government makes 27 billion schilling available, which is 69.3 percent. A quarter of the pensioners thus receive about four times the federal funds. Is that your view of justice? I have not yet addressed all the costs that the government has imposed, such as the increase in prescription fees, the introduction of ambulance charges, the taxation of accident pensions and, above all, the loss of co-insurance among couples who never had to expect to face such a deal with their low incomes. It should be noted that there are the largest price increases in medical services, 23 percent, as well as in outpatient services. This means that older people can no longer care for their health and can no longer afford as much as they can for their health. It should also be noted, however, that Members in their constituencies announce that they will not allow these measures to be taken because they are seeing exactly what this means for those concerned on the spot. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! Today, you can fulfill your promises at these local events by agreeing to our demand to increase pensions by the rate of inflation and contributing everything to their implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11555	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Bruckmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11576	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A preliminary remark: There is a popular children's game, i.e. "Stille Post". A whispers B something to something, B there is to C on, C to D, and finally it is compared how what the last one has heard behaved to what the first said. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: What's going on about the press is not a whisper!]] [[Abg. Lacner: That's how it goes in the government!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I bring another example, namely that brought by colleagues Dietachmayr. By the end of December last year, by the Statistical Central Office, now Statistics Austria, there was also a pensioner index in addition to the consumer price index. This was discontinued at the end of last year. In the last five years, this pensioner index has been – you hear and marvel! – increased less strongly than the consumer price index. Since he no longer exists, I have made a very grossly superfluous calculation of how the pensioner index would have changed in the first seven months of this year, if it still existed, and came to a very rough value of 0.9 percent. If one summarizes this 0.9 percent with the lower increase in the last five years, it turns out for the last six years that the pensioner index would have increased virtually equally much compared to the other. Mr Dietachmayr! Thank you very much for making an exact statistical statement for me at the end of the chain. [[Abg. Sweamlein: This may be mathematical, but in the wallets people have less!]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Are you now for an inflation bill: yes or no?]] But now on the real subject. High house! It's always the same picture: Since the SPÖ is in the opposition, it does not allow for an opportunity to demand more money for those groups of people who make up the theme of the day. It would be expedient to ask a Parliament historian to sum up what a huge total of these demands over the last few months. Of course, I too, as a senior representative, would be delighted by higher annual growth rates for pensions in Austria, and in the euphoric final mood of the large Congress of the Council of Seniors, when the question was asked: We have not been particularly concerned about an adjustment to the extent of the inflation rate, which in general has fallen by surprise. In this sense, it is right that I did not object to this request with 200 others as a wishful suggestion. However, it should be noted that, first of all – and that has not yet been said – the current legal situation ensures that all compensation recipients will receive the full rate of inflation. Secondly, it should be noted that the last word has not yet been spoken in the debate on pensions. The question is still quite open. Mr Feurstein has explained what ideas he has and these are clearly different from the ideas of Mr Silhavy. [[Abg. Silhavy: Thank God!]] Since this question of pension adjustment is still open, the urgent question today is actually a shot into the void. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: A pipecreper!]] Nevertheless, some basic considerations should be formulated even today. The Austrian Seniors' Federation – which I have already pointed out several times – feels obliged not only to the seniors of today, but also to the seniors of tomorrow, that is, the active population. For this reason, it is necessary to see the concern of this urgent request in a wider context. It is a binge truth – which always needs to be repeated – that every schilling that a pensioner receives must at the same time be brought up by an asset, whether directly via the contributions, be it indirectly via the state grant, that is, from the tax benefit. What does that look like? – In Sweden, more than 50 percent of the 60-65-year-olds are still active, 16 percent in Germany and 8 percent in Austria. The figures for women five years younger are similar. The average retirement age in Austria is only interrupted by that in Italy. The net replacement rate, i.e. the relation of the newly recognised pension to asset income, is much higher in Austria than in Germany and much higher than in Sweden. In summary, the following can be found: If the average retirement age and the average net replacement rate were closer to those values, as they have long been given through social-democraticly dominated Sweden and in today's social-democratic Germany, then we could also afford higher annual adjustment rates of pensions in Austria. But what a month-long cry was raised when this government dared to gradually raise the age of accession for early retirement pensions – that is, not for the regular pensions – by 18 months! This cry was all the more absurd, when a 24-month increase had been planned in the pact between SPÖ and ÖVP. [[Abg. Silhavy: Without deposits!]] High house! To resist any reform that would relieve the ratio of the contribution volume to the pension volume, but at the same time demand a higher rate of increase in pensions – this is a policy that I would like to call "unfair" if I did not have to risk getting a call for order for this expression. I therefore leave it to you to substitute this expression, which I did not need here, by an appropriate alternative but equivalent additive. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] To this end, the downturn in the world economy, which cannot remain without an impact on Austria and which makes it necessary for national responsibility to be restrained this year in the case of additional expenditure. High house! I can remind you that in 1997, at the time of a Social Democratic Chancellor, a Social Democratic Finance Minister and a Social Democratic Social Minister, a zero round for pensioners took place, without any of today's analog economic causes. I therefore put this as a question: On the other hand, do you think it is an honest policy to have given the pensioners nothing at all at the time, today, in a far more difficult time to express themselves for a higher growth rate than those presupposed by the law, and to speak in a tone – today, but not in 1997 – of "pension harvesting", which must only be done to poison the climate in the more open discussions? [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's not true!]] To sum up, I say: Blame on the current moderate adjustment rates is not the current German government, but it is the fault of the 30 years of social-democratic domination, which has put in Austria a huge state debt, which has so strongly stressed the Austrian pension system that, out of a sense of responsibility for Austria, this government is forced to throw the row around. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I cordially invite you to take part in decisive steps to improve the relationship between the volume of contributions and the volume of pensions. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: In two years we are in the government!]] If you do, we will no longer need to disagree on the annual adjustment rates of pensions in the future. Join a policy of honesty and a policy of reason, and give up cheap polemics!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11752	Mrs Petrovic's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11774	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My previous speaker – spitted with a lot of foreign words, but nevertheless – accused the applicants of dishonesty. [[Abg. Böhacker: He asked a question!]] I would like to return the question to him, and I would like to add it to the speech by Karl Ollinger: How do you see this when men have a moderate plus of 4.1 per cent in the total number of new pension accesses over the years 1996 to 2000, but for women, over the same half of the decade, a minus of 4.6 per cent? Now, a percentage increase in pensions is one thing. I think we should not only see it – although, of course, primarily – from the point of view of those concerned, but also from the point of view of the fact that pensioners are demanders. If I take from the statistics that they are mainly women who often live and survive in single households, they are also largely out of demand. We are no longer talking about increases there, but we are talking about the absolute amounts that fall in the number of new entrants. We see this as a scandal from the Greens! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Edellinger.]] That is why we should not only talk about percentage growth rates, but also about the distribution of funds among people who are in retirement or in old age, where people are normally in retirement. And in this respect it looks like in Austria that you really can say: Poverty in old age is female! – We have 150 000 women aged over 65 who do not receive a pension in a rich, wealthy country – neither own nor derived! We have as a comparative value – these are also too many, but nevertheless, under quotation marks, "only" – 35 000 men, to which the same circumstance applies. That is, we have about 200 000 people who do not have a pension at all. This distribution and how they live – and how they may get certain grants in a family association, but this is hidden from the statistics – is, in my opinion, a gross abuse. Similarly, you know – and those who are experts in the field of social security know very well – that those measures that have been taken under the title of "spare", i.e. the abolition of early retirement due to reduced workability and the increase in the retirement age in early retirement, women have taken four to five times as much as men, simply because, due to child care, women have fewer opportunities to bring together the same number of years of insurance, and because their deposits are lower. What you have always announced as great success is the accounting of child care periods. But please tell the Austrian women honestly at what level: exactly at the level, which then leads to the average age pension for women in the new entrants – of course only those who have a pension at all, and not the 150 000 who have nothing at all – below 9 000 s. If, of course, she is female, and with these people, it's not really a minimum board, it's worth a little bit of something to do to get a little bit of a little, under the quotation mark, "Luxus", it's already gone! In my opinion, this is really a mistake in one of the richest countries on earth. Therefore, we should not only talk about percentage increases in existing pensions, but we should also talk about the need for an old age pension for every person, namely an old age pension, which must be at least existential! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I shall now come, if Mr Gaugg's ear is still a little free, to a point that is really sad and very angry for me. [[Abg. Gaugg talks to Federal Minister Mag. Main]] Perhaps this is also, and above all, the women's representatives in the ÖVP. A recent survey took place... [[Abg. May. Prammer: There are men among themselves, Mrs Petrovic!]] I'm just trying to tell Mr. Federal Minister something. [[Abg. Gaugg: (removed from the government bank) You always tell stories!]] – Yes, very interesting, Mr Gaugg, and probably more exciting and especially more important for women than what you have to say to the Federal Minister. [[Abg. Gaugg: How do you want to know?]] If you listen to me, we'll be able to judge it. But if you do not listen to anyone and also prevent the Minister of State from doing so, of course this will be difficult! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There was a recent survey of the men's department, organised by the Federal Minister or on behalf of the Federal Ministry. There a very renowned social rights activist, Professor Tomandel, put himself in front of the staggering crowd and, in the background of this data, which you can really verify in every statistics, explains that it is actually the men who are severely discriminated against in our pension system. It is, according to Tomandel, so that on the basis of their statistically shorter life expectancy, men would actually have to recover the capital paid and saved by them in a shorter period of time, i.e. in higher amounts of money. There was no longer the talk of old age insurance, since the idea of social justice and of basic funding had been wiped away, instead it was assumed as an axiom: The capital market procedure is the principle of tomorrow's social security! Federal Minister! I would be interested if you, as you have such a speaker invite you to such a meeting and certainly also pay his fee from public funds, would go in line with these statements. Do you also believe that the men in our pension system are the discriminated against? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Or do you see that differently? I would like to ask you for a few clarifications. In fact, for years we have been planning a rise in the sheer at the pension. The poor pensioners, those who have no or very low pensions, are still losing, and the others are worried about the gentlemen from the men's department. On the one hand, my interest is that pensioners should not be constantly poorer, but above all a balance between the poor and the rich in the pension. I think at the age, every Austrian and every Austrian really has a basic guarantee of existence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11911	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. The clock is set to 5 minutes, as desired. [[Abg. Donabauer: (on the way to the speaker's desk) A little more!]] The clock is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11946	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I think there is no one in this Parliament who is not interested in a good and effective pension system. In today's urgent request, which has lasted enough long, but has been inadequately carried out, you ask a number of questions, Mrs Bures, which in part cannot even articulate your own friends properly. Otherwise it could not be that Mr Dietachmayr goes out and asks Mr Minister to finally say how the pension adjustment is done; However, in this motion, which ends with a motion for a resolution, you have just asked the Minister to present a government proposal. So there are some inconsistencies, and I just want to hold on to that so that you can see these things too. [[Abg. Silhavy: But, Mr Donabauer, you should learn the Rules of Procedure!]] In addition, I think we should agree on a few things. Pension insurance is then carried out – and this has already been said very aptly by Mr Feurstein – if we are ready to adapt, if we have employment and if the state finances are in order. If these three parameters are fulfilled, pension schemes will also be able to be well financed in the future. But if one of these three breaks away, we will have problems! In addition, you argue that it is extremely difficult for pensioners in this country because nothing happens, so that you demand urgent adjustment needs. I can remind you of a few things. First of all, it is true that Mr. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky told the pensioners: If I'm elected in 1995, I'll assure you that nothing happens with pensions! – But the savings package – and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Edlinger, who is present here, has negotiated it with us and is also responsible – at that time the pensioners have cost a lot of money and taken away money from them. That must also be said! [[Abg. Edlinger: This is a mistake!]] In addition, I take the official report of the Ministry, since 1976 there has been nine times a pension adjustment under the inflation rate – nine times, please! But these were times when the inflation rate did not amount to 2.9%, as in the time of this government, but when it was 8.4 percent, 6.4 percent, or 5.6 percent. These are things you should also take note of! It shows itself once again: It's an art that no one can do! We have, I think, a good system, we only have to question distribution justice, and that is very crucial. If you have read the Federal Government's poverty report in recent years, you can't gladly find a single pass in it that the pensioners are at risk of poverty. We believe, however, that the disabled, the single parents, women after divorce, long-term unemployed and the like are at risk of poverty. These are about one million people, 300 000 of whom are acutely vulnerable. We can't wipe these reports off the table, they're facts! In this area, I think we will have to get more involved in the next few days. We have to deal with this, we simply have nothing else left. The tax measures in the field of health insurance have been addressed here. I propose that we take a very honest approach to this issue: Where are the conflicts? – We have the happy development of longer life expectancy, we have higher and higher medical benefits, we have always better and better functioning, but more expensive cures. Of course it does! Since today we congratulate each other on the need for self-preservation – once again! – noted that the self-holds were not introduced by this government, and that they were not introduced with us in the coalition, but that self-holding really is an element of financing – and I do not represent it, at all, they are also quite well-informed – which you have introduced in the time of your sole government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] So why criticize You keep this self-retaining scheme? – It is therefore, in fact, a correct, but unfair application in itself, because it refers to a maximum of about one third of all social security contributions and the rest has none if you look away from the prescription fees. We should also discuss these issues in this context, I think that would be worthwhile. Finally, you will be allowed to expect a decision that correctly implements the pension adjustment and is proposed that it be socially balanced and, secondly, financeable.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11999	Member, one second, please. - We have a cell phone regulation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Unfortunately!]] - Thank you many times. Mr Donabauer, please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12026	Thank you. – Minister of State! You're in office for a year tomorrow. I think this year you can refer to a lot of things that we have done and done together for this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scatter]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This includes, for example, the 2000 pension reform, in which the pension reform continued in 1997 – which had good approaches but was not sufficient – the childcare allowance, which does not limit, but involves all, the increase in child support, the reduction of the unemployment rate, both among young people and those over 50 years of age. I think we have achieved a lot with this policy, but I also believe that we still have a lot to do. Today's urgent request has contributed to the re-examination of this issue, but nothing can be done in the matter even as you imagine it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12071	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12093	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Donabauer, I find it interesting: Today, as from your point of view, you have already stressed positively that the issue has been reduced at the farmers' social insurance institution; at the farmers' social insurance institution, which is undoubtedly the highest grant institution of the entire social security institution! There you confess to it, but elsewhere you have to save unfortunately. Do you find that very balanced? You may have forgotten the following: Your government agreement states that self retention is possible up to 20 percent. I would just like to remind you that you have made those statements on self-retaining here from the speaker's desk. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I was a little surprised at your statement that you can't begin with the numbers found in our request. These figures, I would also like to remind you, come from documents from your ministry that are available for the decision-making of the pension package. Maybe you can understand her now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] I would also like to tell you what this means to a single pensioner, a single pensioner per year: Mr Feurstein! This means an average minus of 7 500 S net a year. Take away the pensioners with this pension package, which has been so proudly defended here today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I would have trusted you with a little more seriousity in dealing with numbers. You have announced here that the pension insurance institution of employees has additional expenditure of around 25 billion schilling. Mr. Federal Minister, why does she have her? – Because You have decided on a pension package here, which has contributed to a plus of 31 000 ASVG-pensionists in 2000 – we had a preferential effect at that time. You know very well that this preferential effect has a lasting effect, i.e. on the long term, as an additional expenditure in pension insurance. That's what you have to answer. These are the consequences of your pension package, and therefore you have increasing extra expenditure despite massive, drastic interventions in pensions. For net adjustment, because today some Members have lamented and regretd that even in previous years the adjustments were not always the same as the pensioners had wished them to: You are forgetting, ladies and gentlemen, that you have introduced it and are responsible for deducting the so-called excesses of the last few years from pensioners during the adjustment of pensions – once more 0.1 percent, and in 2003, according to the Commission, Federal Minister, it will again be 0.6 percent less. These are the so-called oversupply of what previous governments have said that pensioners need these increases so that they too have a slight income increase in the end. They take away this money from pensioners today, in retrospect, and this is not only unfair, but also unsocial, unfair and rule-of-law! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! To your further remarks: You have obviously not put down the tactics you used to use as a representative of the Freedom Party. It is typical for you that then, if you want to push yourself in front of the responsibility, you push into the victim role: You have a case of fable to answer. – What are you? - You're the poor victim, you've been lost. You have to account for ambulance charges and the whole chaos in this regard. It's your legal basis. – What are you? – They are the victim because no one can deal with them in the administration. You have presented the accident pension tax here, and it has been decided here by your parties. – What's going on? – You need to launch large advertising campaigns so that the accident pensioners may get some of this money back. Federal Minister! This is not a fairer, not a fairer and above all no social dealings with the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's see how the pensions developed! I listened closely to Mr Bruckmann and must say to him: Mr Bruckmann, in those years when the Social Democratic Party was in the government, the pensioners had a relative increase in purchasing power. [[Abg. Gaugg: A smooth lie!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] – You can prove that. Mr Gaugg! It would be best for you to deal with facts and not always make intermediate calls, which you cannot even prove, because we can disprove you with facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12192	Mr Gaugg! I've heard a word I'd rather not hear!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12224	It would be the first time that Mr Gaugg apologizes. I don't suppose he'll do that. [[Abg. Gaugg: How right you are!]] – I am usually right, Mr Gaugg – well that you see this – because I have the better arguments and because we have the facts and facts on our side because we have something to do with people! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] However, it was very embarrassing that Mr Ofner delivered rhetorically here. [[Call the liberals: "Eiertanz"!]] [[Further calls.]] Yes, it was a rhetorical honor, because a colleague, Ofner, who has been in this House for so long, I trust that he knows the Rules of Procedure and thus also the provisions of § 74a, which refers to the urgent request. And by doing so, Mr Ofner – he should at least know that I am now in favour of him – knows that only one motion for a resolution to the Federal Government is possible and no other wording is possible. It is therefore not right to say here that we do not have our own ideas, but only desire for the Federal Government. Another procedure, as you know very well, Mr Ofner, would not be in accordance with business rules. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Ofner, after so many years in this House, you should not make such a mistake! I would just like to say to Mrs Vanner, Dr. Feurstein: Do you want to continue "the first-class health care, the medical services" and so on? – Ladies and gentlemen! We are not in favour of continuing your policy, we say no to the ambulance charges, we say no to the accident pension tax, we say no to the removal of non-contributory co-insurance, and therefore we will not agree to your request, because it did not give rise to a positive development for our people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the "balanced increase in pensions and pensions for 2002, taking into account the Commission's opinion", which I have quoted here today: It is in itself the legal provisions and requirements that the government must comply with, and if you do not stick to them, you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, should be the first to make a distrust request against the entire federal government. To the keyword "absorbed motion" because the FPÖ is already a bit nervous [[Ironic hustle and bustle in the liberals]] Today, we will make a motion of censure against one of your members of the government, but not in the debate on the urgent request, but under item 10 of the agenda for a very specific reason: because the sum of the errors is very clearly expressed on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! Two million pensioners are waiting for a positive answer. They want at least the level of inflation so that they do not have to accept purchasing power losses. The generation that has built this republic, which has brought about this prosperity in Austria, does not deserve to be treated by you as you plan. Voices Therefore, you will submit your request to us!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12316	Mr Gaugg spoke in favour of an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. – I’m trying to put a certain expression right!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12340	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I take back the expression used by me with regrets, and at the same time I correctly state that Mrs Silhavy's statements do not correspond to the facts. It meant that under the SPÖ governments there would always have been room for increased purchasing power. – I can tell her by an example that I like to provide her with anonymized, the purchasing power development of a pension in figures: Net pension in December 1995: 12 954,30 S; Net pension in December 1997 – two years later –: 12 671.81 S – monthly 300 S less! –; in December 1998: 12 803 S – still 150 S less than 1995 – 1999: 12 950 S – still around 4.30 S less than 1995 – and only in July 2001, when the SPÖ was no longer in that government did the said net pension amount to 13,457.40 S. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12394	No further words are available. That concludes this debate. We shall now proceed to the votes, first of all we shall vote on Amendment No 522/A (E) by Mr Bures and Mr Genossins concerning the adjustment of pensions at least with the rate of inflation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Dr. Ofner, Dr. Feurstein and comrades on pension adjustment for 2002. [[Calls and appeals between SPÖ and the Freeman.]] I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign in this regard. – The request was adopted by a majority. (E 100.) [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We've won again!]] Short debate on the reply to the question 2503/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12446	We now come to the short debate on the question of the reply of the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry with the order number 2503/AB. The above-mentioned answer has been distributed to all members of the House so that a reading by a writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to Rule 57a of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the first speaker to speak for reasons has a speaking time of 10 minutes. The speaking time of all other speakers is 5 minutes. Mrs Mag. Sima. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12480	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We had many problems in Austria last summer with contaminated corn seeds. That was a subject that has been on our minds for many weeks. All over Austria last summer, illegally genetically modified maize was sown. This genmais has only been placed on the market because of the slutting of a single seed company. That is to say, it was simply mixed with conventional seed with genetically modified seeds and brought out by the unsuspecting farmers. This was the largest illegal release of genetically modified maize that ever existed in Austria. In Carinthia alone, 1,000 hectares were affected, some 2,000 hectares in Upper Austria, and the same was true of Styria, Burgenland and Lower Austria. There were numerous affected areas, farmers and consumers. Apart from the hesitant behaviour of Prime Minister – who has just left us – who would have had to execute the genetic engineering law, this law provides for very clear rules in this area. You can now ask yourself the question: What was the consequence of these incidents? What happened after that? – The only consequence was not, as you might expect, ladies and gentlemen, that we are now carrying out stricter controls and saying that we are doing everything in our power to prevent similar things happening again next year, we are taking precautions. - No! The only consequence was that on Friday a draft limit value regulation was sent in review. And in this limit value regulation, as the name says, there should be limit values in the seed sector in the future, bearing in mind that seed is a strategicly important area for the future as regards the spread of genetic engineering in Austria. If we look at this regulation in this way, one suspects that, in retrospect, one obviously wants to legitimise what went wrong in the summer, because this is a regulation that simply and simply allows the contamination of gene seeds to happen, although certain limit values are introduced but otherwise no problems are solved. In my opinion, this is simply a defeat in our years of struggle against genetic engineering in agriculture and food, to which all parties in this House have become known more or less. As you know, genetic engineering – and this particular part of it – is really a matter of my heart. I have been dealing with this issue for years, and I am all the more painful, Mr Minister, that you are now simply reacting to the events in summer with this regulation and otherwise take no action. Under the heading "strengthening legal certainty in the seed sector", a broadcast was made which was announced last Friday in this regulation. The question is: Legal security for whom? – Certainly not for the farmers, certainly not for consumers, but legal certainty for the affected companies! That's actually a "Lex Pioneer" when you look at that! Tolerance values of 0.5 percent in the conventional sector and 0.1 percent in organic farming are provided. This is under the title "technical inevitability" or "randomness". With this strategy of care instead of care, we will find genetically modified organisms everywhere within a short time. I wonder how you can actually answer that question. Of course, all the contaminants that will exist in the future will be "technically inevitable" or "at random" – this is quite obvious. What hurts me particularly in this context is that the strategy of the genetic engineering companies, which have always been opposed to consumers – consumers have always said, we do not want this technology – this strategy of "under-rejoicing" – under quotation sign – is actually emerging; for when one introduces limit values, there is also an acceptance and an admission of the legislator. It's said: We are powerless in this area, we cannot do anything about it, the GMOs are all inside and because we cannot defend ourselves, we draw limits. – In my view, this is the completely wrong strategy! I cannot understand how you can consider such a thing at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to address some of the points in this regulation, which appear to me partly reluctant, in detail. Approximately: Why are there two different limit values? Why can't conventional farmers create the same thing that organic farmers can do? Why do they have a 0.5 percent limit and the other 0.1 percent limit? - I can't understand that. The second point concerns EU level. Minister! You must remember how many times we have talked about why there is no marking in Austria. You've always told me: It's only in the European equinox, otherwise it doesn't make sense. Where are these limits of the European equinox? This seems to be on holiday, because suddenly it is not a problem to introduce national rules in this area, and although the EU Commission did not present a proposal for the so-called Food+Feed Regulation until July, which also concerns limits. However, this will still be brought to the stage in the European Parliament's code process – I estimate in about two years. There will still be a lot of discussion, and in the end we will see whether there will be any limit values or not. But at one time there is no longer any talk about European equality. How can that be explained? Another absurd detail I noticed: The Regulation, at least from the wording, states: "The permissible limit for genetically modified organisms of the same species is 0.5 percent". If you look at this in the example of the incidents of last summer, you have to notice that there was a maize variety that was contaminated with three different genetically modified species, i.e. a maximum of 0.5 percent of each GMO species. This means that in principle 1.5 percent of genetic contamination could have been contained. An additive regulation has been created, so to speak, which, depending on how many GMOs are inside and potentizing, can go up to a few percentage points. I think that's totally reluctant. Another absurd detail, which I immediately noticed, concerns our import bans. We have always fought very hard to ban imports at European level against certain genetically modified organisms, which, for example, have antibiotic resistance markers or other properties that appear dangerous or risky to us. We were very proud of the fact that we have fought through this for years. Under this new regulation, however, these GMOs, these genetically modified organisms, which are still banned from import at EU level, may be grown in Austria as pollution in our fields. – All of this has to be "trapped on the tongue" one day! No one will take us seriously at all in Brussels. We're totally ridiculous. First we explain in 30 pages long writings why this is dangerous, and then we build the "technically inevitable" pollution in Austria. That's ridiculous! But perhaps you can still contribute to the investigation. Ladies and gentlemen! The genetic engineering industry has always recruited itself to have this new technology completely under control. I know this argument from many debates with representatives of the genetic engineering industry. Now it turns out pretty slowly that they are not even able to keep the seed apart. What kind of impression of the ability to keep this technology under control is there to be awakened? – I have the impression that this technology is not under control at all if you can’t even do such basic things as filling seeds into the right bags. This pollution does not come from a natural spread or from pollen flight. It is largely due to problems of distribution, cross-contamination and filling. I am puzzled by why you, Mr Minister, are also in favour of this sluggish distribution of gene seed in Austria. I can't understand that at all. I was, honestly, really appalled at the fact that I saw this regulation on Friday afternoon. That was also the reason why we requested this debate on this subject, because otherwise we have no opportunity to discuss a regulation in this House. I would like to make one more point. You appeal: This creeping spread of gene seed is a serious problem, and with your regulation you still support it!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12585	The Federal Minister has spoken. The speaking time for an opinion on the subject of the debate is also 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12607	Mr President. High house! I am grateful for the possibility of taking a position in front of the House on that draft regulation on the basis of the Seeds Act, which has been reviewed by my ministry in recent days, with regard to limit values, tolerance values for contamination of non-genotechnic seed. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Sima! Austria is in a special situation. First: Austria is a country where no genetically modified variety is authorised. Unlike many other countries around Austria, a genetically modified variety of seeds is not allowed in Austria! Secondly, But we are in an environment – this is a fact, you know, I have already said that – in which we come into contact with countries where genetic engineering is actually applied, it is on the agenda. These are some countries of the European Union, but they are also the EU candidate countries. Third – obviously not widely known –: We depend exclusively on imported seed in individual seed areas – I think of maize for example – de facto. There is no independent maize breeding in Austria; also because some developments – I am thinking of the discussion on the question of the "gross" – have of course also led to the fact that their own seed economy in Austria did not expect them to operate Austrian companies, for example, for maize. About 99 percent of the maize seed – Mr. Pirklhuber, you know that from the organic sector – has been imported. This leads – fourthly – to the fact that we cannot exclude impurities. That is why we draw the consequence from the experience of early summer, Mrs Sima. What is the teaching of the events of the early summer? First: We have a high level in Austria as regards the issue of seed authorisation, examination and certification. Not least, Austria is a priority in the EU's "Research" action programme, and we are actively involved in this programme. Secondly, The European Union has made several proposals – unfortunately not all final. You, ladies and gentlemen, have spoken about this: Novel Seed, Novel Feed, Novel Food. This is necessary in order to ensure a overall harmonious development in the area of these different regulations. In this respect, drafts on tolerance schemes proposed and proposed by the Commission are on the table in the European Union. Unfortunately – and I regret this – the Commission has not been able to carry out, within the originally promised timetable, such as the question of overall harmonisation with regard to Novel Feed, Novel Seed and Novel Food, including the tolerance value schemes. Austria will continue to be on the press so that we can implement these regulations in Europe in a timely manner, including with the European Parliament. The third experience was that, where it was necessary – Mr. Haupt did so in agreement with me – of course, we took the necessary steps. They know that where concerns have prevailed, corn has been removed from the fields and finally a corresponding process has been found with the countries. Fourthly, Mrs Sima – I would like to draw your attention to this; They are always very precise when it comes to argumenting in detail; in this case I am also –: I have already pointed out in the early summer of this year that a consequence of this situation and its legal assessment will be and must be that our two ministries – my colleague's and that of my colleague's head – are working on tolerance schemes. This is legible in various issues of June and July of this year and is also very precise and announced that we will work on such limit values. That is why there is now this directive, which is under consideration, which, from my point of view, also to your questions follows the following principles: First: I mean it – and understand It is a matter of making this a conscious discussion as part of the review process – it makes sense for us to make this differentiation between conventional and organic farming. And why? – Because it should ultimately be a certain incentive, in the field of organic farming, to meet the objective which organic farming itself has set itself. Secondly, They have addressed the question regarding the EU. I've answered these. Nor am I to say that, if the European Union will definitely set tolerance values, it will, of course, also be necessary in Austria to adapt accordingly. That is completely legitimate and logical! But I mean to speak in the interests of all those involved when I say that we are making this legal certainty early on. On your third question: Please read in the regulation where it is referred to in § 2: "The Regulation shall apply in the following ways..." and in Section 3: "the same way". From this you can derive what is meant by "art", anyway not their cumulative calculation, but in fact only 0.5 percent. But I would like to thank you for the suggestion that you see the importance of assessment procedures and parliamentary debates in order to make such clarifications. In conclusion: I am convinced that, of course, we will continue to be successful in the Austrian way. This way means: We want to offer Austrian consumers the highest quality food. We will, of course, continue to follow the principle of genetic engineering, but we need to provide those legal security frameworks so that we can continue to implement our goal of offering non-genocidal seed in Austria in the future – and therefore this tolerance regulation.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12686	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12734	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In accordance with the wishes of the Federal Minister, I will not only say yes, but I will certainly express my opinion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Federal Minister Mag. Molterer.]] Federal Minister! Let us, in this debate, put aside some details, but let us first try to establish and maintain our common interests in the whole of the agricultural sector. I think we agree that we want to maintain our small-structured agricultural agriculture in Austria. We all agree on this, including Mr Schwarzenberger. Second point: Together, we want to maintain the pioneering role of Austria in organic farming not only, but also, as far as possible, to expand. I think we agree. Only: These similarities are in stark contradiction with what has happened in recent months! First of all, we have a reduction in the not particularly significant resources for the consultation in the biological sector in support of organic farming in the 2001/2002 budget. Secondly, at one of the first meetings of the Committee on Agriculture in the previous year, you mentioned the opportunities provided for by the EU under the horizontal regulation on the agricultural agenda and found that there would certainly not be any ceiling on environmental bases. – This is the opposite of what we have previously established as consensus. Federal Minister! With this regulation, I believe, the third point will be reached and defined where exactly this consensus will be left. They have said that it makes sense to make a different value, a different percentage of pollution between conventional and organic farms. Only: I do not see this point, because with your regulation, I believe you are increasing the pressure on organic farms. In fact, if on the neighboring plot a conventionally operating plant can operate with otherwise contaminated seed, the risk that the organically managed field or the corresponding seed is more contaminated and therefore the organically operating plant is in difficulty, is equal to the same limit as if there were the same limit value, at least one limit of 0.1 percent. Therefore, in the sense of a consensual path, in the sense of the above-mentioned similarities, I would like to ask you to reconsider whether these different limit values are really necessary or whether we in Austria do not have a single limit of 0.1 percent, if we already need one. In my opinion, in the event of a corresponding pressure on the seed industry, this would be unnecessary. Mr Schultes, perhaps you would call me blue-eyeed or say that I have wishes. One may wish for something, and I would like us to see the seeds industry succeed in marketing seed that is actually free from genetic engineering. Since, I think, it is simply necessary for the seed industry to work hard to find appropriate opportunities. All in all, Mr Federal Minister, I would really like to ask you once again: If it is necessary to remove limit values, then for everyone the same, for the conventional farmers as for the organic farms – the pollution will not take notice of any field boundaries! – in order to be able to apply at least in the future for the biological pioneering that Austria has undertaken, because, unfortunately, an expansion of this role will not be possible with less funding, as you see it for the present and the next budget. This service should and should be determined in the interests of organic farmers in your regulation!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12794	The next speaker is Mr Zellot. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12816	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first place, I can say that there is actually a very factual discussion today. If one considers the development of agriculture and the price situation in agriculture more closely in the last two years, it has been marked by price decline, by foot-and-mouth disease and BSE in other Member States. In addition, the farmers had to find in the spring that they had unwittingly planted seeds with impurities. This seed bought by various seed producers was grown in seven federal states, and plants in Austria had to be destroyed on 2 012 hectares due to orders from both ministers in the context of emergency measures. But when we talk about genetic engineering, genetic engineering, we also need to consider how seed production has developed in Austria, especially in the maize sector. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] From a professional point of view, when each farmer receives seed, for example for cereals, it must sometime find that it is not always 100 percent of the seed he ordered, because for technical reasons it is often one, two barley grains are present with 0.0 percent of contamination in wheat. That's a fact. Austrian maize seed production has shown that it also produces good yields with its maize seed. What did the companies do with the farmers? – Certain seed companies have attracted the farmers with demonstrations, with show fields, with festivals, with free beer, with sausages, with appropriate head covering and showed them how to achieve even better and higher yields. Federal Minister! In this way, our farmers finally came to the conclusion that Austrian seed production no longer pays off that they would have to purchase their seed from elsewhere. That means in the clear text nothing but that Austrian agriculture in the field of seed is no longer free today. Farmers are dependent, farmers are no longer free. I am convinced that there will be more uncertainty about this in the future – especially in the European Union with regard to Easter enlargement – and that, due to the free movement of goods, it will be more necessary than ever to carry out more controls in order to provide farmers with safety in the cultivation. Federal Minister, this is the command! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All these things, of course, also suffer from the image of agriculture. It was really not the best thing to read in the press that there are only Genmais spaces in Austria. This was negative advertising for Austrian agriculture and especially for maize farmers. Because of the drought, corn production has fallen by 50 percent in some areas. One would, following the principle of supply and demand, think that then the price increases, but unfortunately the maize is worth even less this year than in recent years. In Carinthia, as well as in the rural days of other federal states, there are applications for genetic engineering-free zones in the individual federal states. – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! There are differing views of our parties in this respect too, but FPÖ is a real partner of agriculture and says a clear yes to a free genetic engineering Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12876	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. Also speaking time 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12897	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to thank Mrs Sima for allowing us to discuss the issue of agriculture at this "blue hour" where everything is so cozy and quiet. Otherwise, we are only at half past twelve at night on the subject of agriculture. So I welcome this debate. The season accordingly, we are now talking about Genmais. In January we'll talk about BSE again, in March we'll talk about maize again, in July we'll talk about salmonella again – as it just says in the farm calendar, according to the motto: If Mrs. Sima says it's getting worse for the farmers. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Now we have to talk about pumpkins!]] Dear friends! It's nice that I'm allowed to comment on a subject that is actually an Austrian success story. Especially in the field of seed production, especially in maize, our strict standards, our high technical standard and the test standard in our federal institutions today have a competence that is appreciated throughout Europe. We need around seven million kilograms of maize seed in Austria. Of this is only a very small part, about one percent, of which is from Austrian production. However, we ourselves produce for export and produced the 15 million kilograms of corn seeds in this year. 25 million kilograms are certified in Austria, so foreign productions are also coming to Austria, because our standards are certified in such a way that the product is in demand throughout Europe. It's just working properly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And because we want to continue to be at the front, a limit value will be determined in the future, a value that can be really technically reasonable and scientifically secured, because there is no zero in nature, but a technical method of measurement defines when where zero begins. In order not to be delivered to the laboratory dispute, but to have a zero value defined by us, we have set the limit of determination at 0.1 percent. This is also a help for the organic farmers, and so should they. In order to be able to introduce hard thresholds in the area of reliability due to our import dependence, one must introduce the lowest possible threshold. If you consider how many grains you need to make a reasonable analysis at all, then you know that 0.5 percent is already a good value for a sample. I don't want to stop you anymore! – I am pleased that good work is being done in Austria. I am pleased that the new regulation gives us the safety and information that we need, and I am pleased that our Federal Minister, in agreement with his colleagues in government, takes the steps that Austria needs – for the benefit of agriculture and consumers, because everyone can rely on us to deliver the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12947	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12968	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schultes said he would no longer want to use our time. I think that we are discussing today a central issue for the future of Austria and for the future of Austrian agriculture, so I am very grateful to Mrs Sima for bringing this answer to the debate today. Federal Minister! You've been trying to sketch in a few minutes the consequences you've drawn from this Genmais scandal. I believe that our view of things is more true, and we judge things differently. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is clear: Federal Minister Chief has failed all the way down. Since March 2001, he has been informed on a regular basis by you, Mr. Federal Minister – you have already confirmed this to us several times, even in this reply to the question. However, the Federal Minister of State has not become active, he has until the 9. I didn't do anything on July. He's been taking this problem for months! And now a FPÖ member is making himself and saying: We've always been for genetic engineering freedom. – Then do something, Mr Zeellot! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). See that we do not become pioneers of a GMO-polluted Austrian agriculture here! That is the consequence of this, Mr. Federal Minister! You have to let that happen! This allows you to open the door and gate for genetically contaminated seeds in Austria, for genetically contaminated goods in the Austrian warehouses, in the Austrian fields, ultimately also in Austrian food. This is a real disaster in this genetic engineering policy, the Minister's chief is now obviously trying to get rid of it by playing the ball again. You take up this ball, Mr Federal Minister, but I think you should be careful here for several reasons. On the one hand, there is a very clear vote of the Austrian population; the genetic engineering people's desire has been a clear vote. There is now also a clear vote of the Austrian farmers. These have voluntarily destroyed the plants in their fields so that Genmais does not get into circulation. And there is now also a fact on the economic level. In the meantime, the economy, ladies and gentlemen, has also had the consequences. The Raiffeisen-Ware Austria, the Agrana and other companies that take over maize, check all the maize batches and ensure that they can deliver non-genotechnic maize parts to the food trade. Federal Minister! You need to know! Why Open Here again you can tolerate the possibility of speculation in the Austrian population, in Austrian politics and also in the Austrian industry, that it would be possible to tolerate a bit of contamination in the seeds? This is the first step in questioning Austrian genetic engineering freedom – and we Greens will not be there, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, I do not want to say that I am very grateful to you for a very clear statement that you have made, Mr Federal Minister, namely the finding in this threshold regulation that zero tolerance is not fiction. This is contrary to Mr Auer, who recently claimed this, or Mr Schultes, who said that it was not possible in nature. You have correctly found that contaminations with "non-authorised" genetically contaminated organisms are to be prevented, at the level of the detection limit. In this I give you the right: The limit of detection is the challenge! The question is: How far can we technically assess something, how far can we test in laboratories with high accuracy, how far can significant results be achieved? I remind you: In our answer you have specified all the signatures with "smaller than 0.1". In other words, the Maispartien were significantly less than 0.1 percent contaminated. This is a limit of proof that is not fictitious, which is still significant, and that means that we should implement three points. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] These three points are brief.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13030	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13052	My final sentence: An initiative for the Austrian seed production and a research project for the conservation of a non-genotechnic plant breeding – that is the challenge! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13082	No one is reporting on this. That is why I am closing the debate on the answer to the question. – Thank you, Minister of State. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13105	I will resume the debate on item 6 of the agenda. Mr Morak is speaking on behalf of the State Secretary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13130	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic has referred to the rights of appeal here in the House. – I would therefore like to refer to the new ORF law, because that was in the final consequence what was being operated here by my State Secretariat in the context of the media laws. So far, there has been the purely subjective right of appeal in the ORF Act, which has been extended, especially in the event of violations of economic interests, saying: Competitive action is possible. Secondly, the implementation of an EU directive – and this is closely related to the item on the agenda that is being negotiated here today. Consumer protection organisations are now included in these rights of appeal. Not only subjective rights are affected, but also objective violations of law, i.e. in relation to advertising, youth protection and so on. You can believe that this was not an "improvement" in the sense of the ORF, but: In the sense of the rights of appeal, in the sense of objective approximation to this Causa, this means improving legal protection within the framework of the new ORF law. Mr Schieder has already referred to a number of points in the committee, which I believe to have dealt with in detail there, but I will nevertheless give a detailed opinion here again. However, I do not want to say that the vehement plea put forward by Mr Schieder in committee moves me to reply to his questions very seriously and in real detail. It is true that, according to the European Television Convention, there is the possibility that the Contracting Parties may, on the occasion of the signing or ratification of the Convention, make a reservation in order to assert the more stringent advertising rules on alcohol advertising in their national legal systems against the spread of programmes of another Contracting Party to the Convention. On the part of our country, there is no such reservation. I have already given you two answers in committee, Mr Arbitrator, but I will be happy to repeat them here. Although we have stricter regulations in Austria, we have a ban on advertising so-called heavy alcohol drinks. It should be borne in mind, however, that this, we wanted to extend it to foreign programmes, can only be subject to rules which are possible in the cable programme because of the fact that the satellite of such a scheme does not, of course, exist. I do not think that such a special regulation is useful for cable networks, even in terms of competition. Further: In the light of the EU Television Directive, such a restriction on programmes from another EU Member State would not be possible because the EU Television Directive has harmonised, i.e. there is no special scheme in this regard. On the other hand, the TV Convention, which is here and today, refers only to the relationship with non-EU Member States: That's why you didn't mean to be so lurky, but at least I made a clear statement about possible television programmes from Azerbaijan; Azerbaijan, I believe, was a country "beyond" of the Black Sea. Third point – and it seems to me most serious in this context – is: Of course, we take suggestions very seriously, but still allow us to say: After a consistent constitution of the Council of Europe's legal services, such a reservation could only be made on the television agreement in its original version, but not on the amending protocol on which it is based today. That means in concrete terms: Austria, after a clear reply from the Council of Europe's legal services, would have had to express such a reservation either in 1989 when it signed the Convention, but at the latest in 1998 when Austria ratified this Convention. However, both did not happen at the time. In this sense, I thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13202	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. The clock is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13223	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary Morak! We have now, as I believe, been given a very convincing explanation of the clarification of this problem. If I was not mistaken, then German Chancellor Vranitzky was responsible for this matter in 1989; he should have made a reservation at the time. But I think it would have been unnecessary, for the reasons mentioned, to report such a reservation. You must not forget: After this provision, which is quoted here, a reservation is only permitted in so far as a reproducibility can be prohibited. Mr Morak, State Secretary, therefore, said perfectly correctly: A spread can only be carried out in the cable network, because the acceptance of satellite broadcasts does not mean reproducibility. However, I believe that Mr. Schieder has addressed an important issue, namely the question of how alcohol advertising looks, in general in Austria as well as in the EU. In fact, Austria has provisions both in the private TV law and in the ORF law, which provide that advertising for spirits generally prohibits, on the other hand, advertising for wine or beer is permitted, but also not generally, but only in an inconceivable context, without harming minors. That is, minors must not be included in advertising – and so on. This legal situation is opposed to the legal situation at EU level, namely the "TV Directive", which was last amended in 1997, i.e. the version of the Amendment Directive. And this "TV directive" does not prohibit advertising for spirits, nor does it prohibit hard alcoholism. That is to say, if we wanted to implement the strict standards we have in Austria, namely the general and unconditional ban on advertising for spirits, even at the expense of those programmes which can be received in Austria, then we would have to be active at European level, because, under current law, an Austrian television operator cannot advertise spirits on Austrian TV, an EU television operator from abroad, which is spreading here, very well. – This is an unequal treatment, and this would be done at European level. A second comment: Mr Petrovic has tried to make a political issue with the issue of localisation, but I do not think her thinking on what is going on in the case of the Doralt case is quite right. Do not forget the following: In the Media Act, there is the possibility of localisation, including the provisional localisation – without proof that all of this is true. However, in the continuing procedure, the person who very quickly forces the localisation to bear the costs of the localisation has to bear when it turns out that this localisation has not complied with the law, which is thus faced with a very high risk. However, in the case of printing media, this still moves in a manageable frame: 20 000 S, 30 000 S or 40 000 S. Jobs But what you think would be the same legal protection instrument for television and there would have to be an immediate localisation – regardless of any subsequent procedure –: If, in the proceedings, it turns out that the demand for the area was unwarranted, perhaps only formal-juristic, but not unwarranted in the matter, the person who made this request would have to replace the costs. And this goes on TV into the millions – even at a short spot, with a short reading of an area decoration. I dealt very thoroughly – also for legal reasons – with this in a UWG matter; we calculated it at the time. My clientship would have had to pay a distance of 1 million Schilling for the publication of a judgment. We have come to the point that the ORF advertising charges would have amounted to over 1 million schillings, and then we would have had the publication first. So, as I believe, this is an instrument which is not necessarily appropriate to ensure rapid legal protection, because it would, in some cases, be reversing in an existence-degrading way at the expense of the legal defender.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13305	Mrs Mag. Frieser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13326	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Protocol amending the European Convention on Transboundary Television does not require a minimum of action for Austria, since the standards laid down in it have already been implemented in our laws adopted in the spring. I mention in this context the ORF law, the private television law, the media law and the television exclusive right law. Mr. Schieder! This proves how competent, how comprehensive, how great those media laws that we passed in the spring of this year were prepared by our Secretary of State Morak. We deeply regret that you, Mr Schieder, and your group at the time have refused your consent. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The judgment will still speak the story! Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.]] I would have liked, Mr Schieder, that you would now have come to the knowledge of how excellent these laws are, and that you would have asked our State Secretary before the curtain, on the basis of this discussion on these European protocols. We'd all like to praise. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only on a number of points: for example, the right to localisation; this is already implemented in our media law, in § 9, and goes far beyond this European Convention. Due to the evolution of the ORF law, public broadcasting is prohibited from allowing teleshopping. The problem of the advertising of alcoholic beverages has already been discussed sufficiently, as I believe. And I believe that what has just been tailor-made was essentially a failure of German Chancellor climate in 1998 and no failure of State Secretary Morak. In addition: Advertising interruption is also regulated, and there are arguments and facts without number that prove how excellent these are our laws. With this adaptation to EU directives, which we are now adopting, we have – once again! – minimal need for action. I can only repeat: The work of State Secretary Morak and this government in relation to all media laws was excellent.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13377	No one is reporting on this. So I close the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Committee's request for the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Protocol amending the European Convention on Transboundary Television, 670 of the Supplements, to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously approved. Next, I shall vote on the Committee's request that this Protocol be adopted within the meaning of Article 50. 2 B-VG is to be fulfilled by passing laws. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This decision is also unanimously adopted. This will be done with item 6 of the agenda. 7. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 513/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Ing. Peter Westenthalerund comrades concerning a federal law on the award of the Federal Honorary Signs (Bundes-Ehrenzeigengesetz) (811 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law, with which the Federal Act of 25 December 1989 was adopted. May 1955 on the creation of an Austrian Honorary Mark for Science and Art and an Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art (812 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13450	We now come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. It is set a voluntary time limit of 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13477	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The wealth of a republic is sometimes his orders. Austria is richly blessed in this regard. There are honours for merits around the Republic of Austria, such as the GrST, the Grand Star of the Honor, or the "AKKRT" and the "BKKRT", the "General Carinthian Cross for braveness" and the "Special Carinthian Cross for braveness". [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: That's all the Socialists did!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] There are still Austro-Hungarian orders from the period of monarchy, such as the JubMZstb, the anniversary medal for civil servants. So there is the "ROVERDKLGRKMTKST", the Radetzky Order of the Merit Class Grand Comtur Cross with the Star - and many, many others, a total of 341 different orders; of which 157 orders of the countries, that is, a not quite insignificant number. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] And now there is to be a new Order, the Bundes-Ehrenzeichn or "KWEZ", the Khol-Westenthaler-Ehrenzeichn – for the recognition of special achievements in the field of rescue, disaster protection, in the social field, for culture, sport, environmental protection, youth and old age care, voluntary initiatives and so on. All of this, however, has been covered by existing orders so far. Mr Niederweiser has already reported in the committee on how the various religious awards of representatives of the Republic have been done after the disaster in Galtür. – So there is no lack of awards in Austria. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Quid novi? – First of all: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Thanks to its "citizen society" say that there has been a storm of desire for orders on the part of this civil society. Second – and this is the decisive –: The Federal Chancellor and the Federal Ministers should also be allowed to grant. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: They are really embarrassing!]] This should not only be allowed – as it has been – by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. The "Bundes-Tommy" should therefore in no way be allowed to do so, but in particular this Federal-Honor-sign should only be granted by the Federal Chancellor or a Federal Minister, but in no case by the Federal President. Thirdly, Why this Order? – Answer: In order to deal with this difficult division of competence under Article 10 of the Federal Constitutional Act, i.e. in the case of: If a Lower Austrian fireman sprays onto a federal building, is the Federal Chancellor, the Interior Minister or, for example, the Head of State Pröll responsible for a religious award? Or is it the "Bundes-Tommy"? [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Pureful speech!]] The cost of the new "KWEZ" is a real Okkasion: 80 euros per piece, i.e. a good thousand; very cheap, especially since – as is ashamed of the explanations – a very large number of awards is not to be expected, unless before the elections. [[Call to the Freeman:Making how you make fun of people!]] Could be! Then the whole of Khol’s civil society gets an order. Everyone! All the volunteers of this republic – and then it becomes expensive again. 80 euros multiplied by the number of volunteers in this Republic – this is expensive! Therefore, I have given a cheaper variant: a K slash B, "K/B", a "coalhead on the band" – for special merits around the Second Republic, to protect the Constitution from any threats of authoritarian nature, for the defence of the democratic achievements of the Second and against the temptations of a Third Republic, for the persistent resistance, also with special rescheduling of personal career desires, for the protection of fundamental and freedom rights against racist, xenophobic and nationalist currents, and for the merit of peaceful living together of all the citizens and ethnic groups living in Austria, minorities, refugees, asylumists and other immigrants. [[under the laughter of his colleagues in the political groups, the speaker takes away a green carbon head, which is fitted with a red band and a mesh]] [[Call the ÖVP:This Krauthapple looks very similar to the speaker!]] [[Abg. Steibl: The SPÖ laughs about the volunteer activity of people in Austria!]] [[Further calls to the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13653	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13674	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to draw your attention briefly from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I already award one or another award – in the second year of my work as State Secretary – for artists, be it for scientists. And I have to tell you, I'm very happy to do this. I also say why: because here in Austria we are a nation of people, of women and men who like to put their achievements under the umbrella. And on such occasions I experience again and again that people are really very touched when an official representative of the state, when an official representative of the Federal Chancellor's Office or of a ministry or the Minister himself takes a position on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You know, one can easily make fun of such honors; I have also done so very often – not in my capacity as a politician, but before I became that. But I also have to tell you: I became Paul from Saul when I experienced how some people cried when they received an award. In this context, I am not referring to a particular Austrian citizen, but to the following: When we last awarded the Lyrik Prize, the Ernst-Jandl Prize, in Neuberg at the Mürz, a large German poet had tears in his eyes and thanked the Republic of Austria for paying attention to his achievements. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] I have to tell you, too. It is no exception that a minister alone grants orders, there is already this now; I mention, for example, only mining marks awarded by the BMWA – or the area of state defense, where the Minister of State of Defense is honouring marks; and also in the science area, Mrs. Bundesminister Gehrer. Again: This may be fun for some – on the other hand, it should be borne in mind that people are being made happy when they are generally aware of what they have done for their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13737	As the next speaker, Mr Krüger is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13759	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say: What Mr Posch has offered here was a embarrassing spectacle! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You really ought to get used to that! And such a thing is human rights spokesperson! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Stoisits laughed like that too!]] Mr Posch! If someone from our ranks or from those of the ÖVP had done a ball horning of a name – as you just did – who or what would you have tried in your statements? – Certainly the period from 1939 to 1945, Mr. Collegue! They measure with two measurements! What you have done here, Mr Posch, was, on the one hand, an embarrassing presentation of your own incompetence and, on the other hand, an indispensable reduction in the dignity of a member of the House. And you should be ashamed of that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Posch! Today, they have made a lot of fun about religious awards. Of course you can say: Happy Austria, don't you worry about giving orders to people?- Oh, my God! But I now ask the Members of the SPÖ Group, who have been in the House for more than ten years: Did one of you ever beat out an order awarded to you because of your belonging to this House for more than ten years? Perhaps we can also pass this question on to Parliament's management. I know the answer: No one – not from you from the SPÖ! – has knocked out these orders, but everyone was proud of them, and rightly so, that he has received such an order! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwemlein: He didn't talk about it!]] Therefore, because the legal basis for 341 orders is another for a 342. I simply don't think it's right – especially not in the UN year of volunteering – to make such fun of people who are then awarded these orders. Such an award is based on the idea that a person who provides non-refundable services in the framework of voluntary organisations for the population should also receive a reward. Again: not a fee, not a check, but an order. That is to say, it is aimed at volunteers, not professional helpers such as red-cruce members et cetera. That is why I simply do not understand that such a legal basis is being reduced in such a bleak form, as Mr Posch did. Ladies and gentlemen! It's just the 11th. September of this year has shown us very impressively how important it is for the civil population to agree that, in order to provide services or help, one not only asks: What do I get for it, what value, what contribution do I receive for it, what benefit does this bring me? but that you simply provide help for help for yourself, for the sake of help, voluntary and free of charge. In order to increase respect for those people who put themselves in the service of the common good by the general public, this legal basis has been created in respect of honorary awards.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13837	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13858	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's not that easy now to find an entry, after all that's gone ahead here. However, I share the view that the Federal Charitable Law is an important step in Dr. Khol's "Bürger-Ehrenmarkengesellschaft". [[Abg. Böhacker: Mr Oellinger, then give an order!]] This is undisputed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: This is not bad!]] If all Austrian citizens have achieved a certain degree of saturation through the award of these federal marks, then perhaps the question will be whether the members of the national governments should not be able to honour these achievements, at national level. It may then also extend the scope, the scope of this law: from voluntary benefits, from domestic scope perhaps also to foreign territory. There are already a lot of things to do now, if one observes, for example, the members of the Federal Government who are now traveling to the Middle East and the Middle East. It will certainly increase the sense of happiness among those concerned, if not only a Mr. Federal Chancellor and a Mr. President, who can already do so, but also the respective ministers can then give their signs and orders not only to national but also to international sectors. However, I see a problem there, Dr. Khol. In Austria, we – and you should take this seriously – have over 300 different orders. In addition, as you have said, Mr Morak, there are still prizes awarded by the Republic of Austria – also for important services to our Republic. – Yes, it should not be possible with these over 300 different Is that supposed to take you out? Could we not, as it were, increase the annual "rate" of these orders if the need is so great? Why do we need a new Bundes-Honormark, which lets the competence to award from the Federal President to the Federal Minister or the Federal Chancellor pass? Why do we need that? There must be other reasons, therefore, for looking for reasons that may be found in the rivalry between the Federal President and the Federal Government or the Federal Chancellor. It may also develop the need that if a "black" minister gives a federal honor mark, a "blue" minister would like to give his clients an honor mark. Is that it? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The Minister of Defense has always done so!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, let's go back to the honor. Why do you need a new category that distinguishes the honor mark from the order more clearly? Why? – Mr Dr. Khol, that would be the interesting thing you should answer us. I also ask this because we know about the award of the Order: In the first place – already mentioned – politicians receive orders, and in this function it could also be the case that there are politicians who receive such honors, if they are, for example, by chance, presidents of voluntary interest organisations. – That will probably not be the reason for this federal honorary law. Second, in addition to politicians, men are "adverse" to orders. And I wonder whether, through this step of rewarding services, you really appreciate and take into account what is done in the field of civil society not primarily by men but by women. Dr. Khol! The women are not the chiefs of the fire brigade. Women are not the bosses of a voluntary rescue service, but the women do much more of neighboring services, quiet services, which are certainly not covered by what you want to know here with general government services. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It would have been nice if we had - and this is not just the motherhood, Mr. Khol - appreciated what women's work in the civil society means and means in another and in a serious debate. But you won't be able to solve that with the Federal Sign. I also do not believe that the future of the federal mark is that it will be given to all 4 million Austrian women who make a significant contribution to matters of general government importance. I don't think you wanted to put an initiative in this direction. It is more about the fire brigade presidents and quite simply about the Chancellor, about the Federal Minister or the Federal Minister, who in future will be able to give an additional mark to these 350 orders, without being disturbed by the detour over the Federal President. Dr. Khol! This cannot also be the future of your civil society, or do you really think that this is all we need to recognize in this field, which you want to recognize to these people by awarding an honorary mark away from the order – which is still at the top of the hierarchy, regardless of the hierarchy of the Order itself?- Oh, my God! – I would like to remind you that there is quite a lot of eye-catching in there that does not satisfy the realities. However, I would like to mention one more point. It is not only under the Federal Charitable Sign Law, but also under the Federal Law, which amends the German Federal Law on the Creation of an Austrian Honorary Mark for Science and Art and an Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art, which is important to us. This is about the fact that such a symbol of honor or order as the two mentioned above should also be recognized if the conditions for it are not met. All you need is the pathetic story about Dr. It is important that we should look at the matter in detail. I would remind you that years ago we discussed this issue unanimously here in this House, across all parties, and were of the opinion that, in this case, the prosecution should finally begin, and I also note that this prosecution was started, but never carried out. I am telling you that no matter what Minister it was that we were dealing with it – it was not only the Federal Minister Gehrer, but also the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, as well as the predecessor of the Federal Minister Gehrer – who always saw the shoulder when it came to withdrawing this Order, the Cross of Merit. It was always thought that this could no longer be reversed, because one was unfortunately powerless, the way would have been closed. Therefore, I must say that we Greens have this point – also because Dr. Greatly mentioned as a person and it should initially also be considered as a person – that a possibility is created to take the Cross of Honor back, because it was an initiative of ours and for us it has long been a concern to consider more important than the Cross of Honor to be quite honest, Dr. Khol!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13948	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13969	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Oellinger! I've heard a lot of speeches from you, but I've never actually heard of such a tribal body as they have now offered you. You have come to terms because you lack the materiality and the honest, correct access, especially in those areas in which we are ahead of you for light years. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] Today, for the second time, they are trying to make a difference between women and men in public recognition. For us, the citizens we honor in the same way when they provide services for us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Why do you give them fewer orders?]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: At the award ceremony this is not obvious!]] Mr Posch is no longer in the hall. – Mr Posch! Don't make fun of the civilian achievements of the citizens! Your contribution was not only tasteless, but your contribution was also an increase of the special class. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Posch! It is our right to request the Stenographical Protocol to be able to inform the organisations of what you have informed Parliament about this important matter today. That'll probably be our right. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I'm telling you, I'm affected. You know why? – I had the following experience: I went home from a political event late at night, and on the highway was a serious accident. I have experienced how the Gendarmerie officials have done hard work using their lives. The rescue teams present there have done everything they can to keep the helpless people. The fire brigades have been of considerable help there. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Right, they deserve an order!]] I was happy to be able to live in a country where I know that in a difficult situation there are people who always work for us, for you, for all of us. That's worthy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I give you a good advice: Give this man your hand and not your cock! You deserve it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] John F. Kennedy said in one of his big speeches: I am pleased to be President of a country where there are hundreds of thousands of lights that are burning; these hundred thousand lights are the hundreds of thousands of volunteers who work in this country – so his quote – for the citizens of that country. – At that time, this man has already recognized and acknowledged it. With this proposal, which we are presenting today, we are making a valuable contribution in this direction, namely that citizens, in addition to many other ways of awarding and recognition, can now also receive recognition and award from the Federal Government in the event of special merits. We will, of course, also serve the citizens in a proper manner. And don't pretend you're not interested! Tun You don't! They have also submitted an application to be processed and discussed here. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's embarrassing!]] They want, for example, legal recognition according to the degree of mandate here in Parliament. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What?]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: There is no such thing!]] Yes! Please read the request! They do not want to extend this important issue to all citizens, but only to the strength of the parliamentary mandates. - Please, here it is! - I beg you! Is there anything else to help you? – If you were now to tell us whether this award by the President of the Federal Government or another person who bears state responsibility, then I can only say to you: That can't be the subject. If you are still having trouble, you would have been told: You all know Hermann Gmeiner. - A great Austrian! He said: Nothing in this world would succeed if there were not people who would do more than they would have to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's take this into account! With respect and recognition, let us bow to the citizens who are helpful to all of us! Remember: You are also present at the events, where the association management stands up and says: Hundreds of voluntary hours have been done, and you are also present at the events at which it is said: Life was saved and much more was done! – I think it is appropriate to show a different dignity in this very important matter and find a better tone.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14143	The next speaker was Mrs Papházy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14164	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! 2001 is the UN year of voluntary work. The Federal Government is given the opportunity to honour, now and in the future, those who contribute to the common good through private, voluntary, voluntary and unpaid work. Thanks to the Federal Charitable Act, the state is given the opportunity to say thank you – thanks for the merits of the Republic of Austria, thanks for the merits for the common good. Under the Federal Charitable Law, services can be recognized in various areas – from areas such as culture and sport through the areas of environmental protection and social protection to disaster prevention, to name but a few. There were events of the 11th century. In this context, it has already been pointed out how vital volunteer work was in the clean-up work and in the assistance work in New York. Or do we think only of drinking water treatment in crisis areas? There, too, Austrians provide free help. Let us also think about the next environment, about the excellent achievements women and men make in child and care work! Consider the benefits of grandparents as regards child care! All of this is volunteering. All of this is unpaid and from the official side mostly neglected work. This voluntary work complements the work of the public hand, it should and can by no means replace it. The state does not intend to reduce its services to the expense of volunteering, but it is very likely that the state will have to structure itself in such a way that it is also prepared as a social state for the future. The Bundes-Ehrenmark is awarded by the Federal Chancellor or by the competent ministers. The award procedure shall be laid down by Regulation. The Federal Sign is not given to organizations but to natural persons and remains, unlike in other honors, in the property of the or the lender. The Bundes-Ehrenmark is to be recognized – Mr Oellinger has already referred to this point – if later facts which would be opposed to the award or if the lender subsequently adopts a behaviour that would be opposed to the award. All our request can only be addressed to voluntary organizations and voluntary initiatives, namely those who do exceptional things in silence in the service of the common good and who would not draw attention to themselves on their own initiative. All our concern can only be to ask and appreciate those who work tirelessly, free of charge and voluntarily in the service of our Republic, in the service of the common good. The Federal Significance Act deserves to be adopted unanimously by all political groups, and I would ask for the approval of all Members, despite the failures already made today.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14218	The next speaker was Mr Martin Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14243	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! If you have heard what Mr Posch has said here today – who is already ashamed of his departure all the time, because he is sitting in his bank and staring into the newspaper as he would never do – then you almost have to assume that in the future you will probably also hear those speeches that we use in this House when we start to speak. Mr Posch, it is already an expression of your attitude, as you are dealing with the signs of merit, with the orders of our Republic. This is the first step if one no longer has respect for our country, for our Republic and for the people of our country. I'm a little sad, 'cause it's like this: Whoever no longer honors one, will eventually take a similar attitude in other matters. In this context, I should also like to point out that there is no obligation for anyone to accept an order or an honorary sign, but there is the possibility of that being done. I remember who is one of the largest religious distributors and honorary distributors of this Republic. This is your mayor of Vienna, Dr. Häupl. He clearly sees this as quite different from you and many others in your group who have laughed in the "unity group" with the Greens. I would You really ask: Talk to Mayor Häupl and his district chiefs in Vienna, and ask them how they handle this or what position they take! I would like to say the following: If you make fun of yourself and jokes in an extravagant manner, you might go next time and pee on the Austrian flag. [[Abg. Go, please!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] – That's it! There is nothing else but the respect that you have in the end before the outer symbols of this Republic. Now, of course, you can go here and say: I have more respect for these symbols and less for the others!, but you will not be able to choose God personally, which will bring respect to the citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now a few words to Mr Oellinger, because he has also mentioned this in particular, and because he has gladly welcomed the provision concerning the recognition of honorary marks from his point of view. Mr Oellinger! I do not want to think back to the time when you were still a member of a sub-organisation of the SPÖ and in which – at that time, at your time – the occasion was honoured. [[Abg. Oillinger: Not at my time!]] You've obviously forgotten that you were almost fellow perpetrators at this point. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Oils.]] But to talk about another aspect: With these provisions, Mr Oellinger, you will not achieve the objective. That's what I'm telling you here and today. It's not supposed to be a secret. In this matter, you will not achieve the goal, because if the wording is: "If later facts were known that would be opposed to an award," I will tell you: Especially in the Causa Gross was known at any time who he was, what he was and what he did! Especially those who proposed him, namely socialist organizations, and those who ultimately also awarded him honorary marks, namely socialist ministers or federal presidents, have already known who Mr Gross was. This has not become known afterwards. It would be exciting if you could get away with this. Or: if he has committed himself through a subsequent behavior – that is the second reason; now we remain guilty of material law – which is contrary to an award. But I believe that Dr. Great has not been the case. After that, he didn't get into debt. And his situation was known to those who gave him an honorary mark – I would like to see this completely worthless. [[Abg. Oils: Ah! Always valueless!]] I'm just saying one thing: Dr. In the end, this way of dealing with social democrats – then still socialists – was washed up in this republic. Maybe that's the disgrace! For this, Dr. Perhaps the least, but here are the spiritual fathers of this attitude! You also need to know, and you have heard that – I would like to have told you that too. [[Abg. Oillinger: In your mind you have to look elsewhere, Dr. Big! That's where you need to look in your ranks!]] – He was a member of another organization and not the Freedom Party. I guess you know that. But you will still be able to continue to spread the untruth in this regard. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, I would like to say once again: With these provisions introduced today, you would not be able to implement what you would be so pleased to do – that is what I am saying at this point – because it is quite simply the case that no one was deceived about the facts at the time. Everyone knew at that time, yes, they even wanted to wash it up deliberately from the social democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14379	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14400	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! This debate has taken a strange course, and I do not think that Mr Posch's initial appearance warrants what Members of the government have done here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't want to qualify the first, but now I have to be held: I must ask you, Mr President, to be a little more attentive, also with regard to the calls for order, which are also quite otherwise distributed, to Mr Öllinger, and, what I am even more infamous – that is now orderly, I know – to find him in connection with the matter of Gross without major detours directly into the neighbourhood – yes, where are we here?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: In Parliament we are!]] We are obviously no longer in Parliament! You should rethink your relationship with Parliament! That's exactly what I've been talking about. [[Call to the liberals: Well, what does that mean?]] In fact, it is not clear why such an item on the agenda must raise emotions in this way. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Ask the Posch! Didn't you join us?]] What I don't want to tell me – and that's what's added – is that if opposition MPs here report their concerns about the way in which religious awards are extended and so to speak, want to describe them as a light Austrian breeder in this matter, it is immediately assumed that services that fellow citizens provide are to be brought to an end! No one said that at all. It is precisely about the fact that 350 or more orders have to be possible, that anyone who delivers an outstanding performance actually comes to his order, if it is to be so. I think I respect these people very much. It was brought here the example of gendarmerie officials and of red-cross employees. As a civil servant, I was also an emergency doctor for eight months, and I saw at that time how people volunteered. It's clear: If there is an outstanding achievement worthy of honor, this is one thing that initially has nothing to do with who has to give the Order for it. That is exactly what it is all about. It is suddenly not good enough, which has been good enough for decades: that the President of the Federal Republic, essentially represented by other persons, or the heads of state, sometimes represented by other people, gives these orders. There has been no discussion about this up to now, but now, since 4. The German Chancellor, the Vice-Cancellor and all the ministers must be able to give the highest personal orders – possibly animated and, after the appropriate interlocutory speech by the representatives of the respective constituencies, of course, it is easier to do so as a member of the government. So I have come to know this in Styria, in relation to country-members to the head of state, that is, the way in which the religious awards are made. Such a model is obviously also thought of here, and I discover that "rerule" is also called "give new order" because the 4. A certain sign was also given on February regarding the relationship between the President-in-Office of the Federal Government and the Federal Government. It is no longer good enough for the right of the award of the Order to lie first and foremost with the President of the Federal Republic and leave the execution of this matter to other persons, no, it must be shortened: "Re-government" means that the Federal President is to grant his orders, and the Federal Government grants them. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14496	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft law on the Federal Signatory and the title and receipt in 811 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law, with which the Federal Law of 25 December 1885. May 1955 on the creation of an Austrian symbol of honour for science and art and an Austrian cross of honour for science and art, including the title and entrance to 812 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill for a sign on this point. – The draft law has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give their approval to the draft law in question at third reading. – It is also unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 9. Point Report of the Equal Treatment Committee on the Government Template (745 of the Supplements): The Federal Law on Equal Treatment of Women and Man in Working Life (Equal Treatment Act), BGBl. No. 108/1979, as last amended by the Federal Law BGBl. I No. 44/1998, amended (804 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14570	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Mag. Prammer. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14597	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have a very, very small novel of the Federal Equal Treatment Act for the private sector – a very, very small novel, which has simply become apparent because it has been possible in the past legislative period to create regional prosecutors, i.e. to situate equal treatment lawyers not only in Vienna, but also in the regions, and thus it has been clear that much more cases will be referred to the Equal Treatment Commission and thus more work will also be done on the Equal Treatment Commission, and because it was also logical to take a step to make the Equal Treatment Commission or the Chairman of the Equal Treatment Commission better. So far to the small step, but he's not even a whole one, but he's been half a bit. Even the small step could not be taken completely, but only half, because if one had taken a whole step, then Black-Blau would have had to accept our amendment in the Committee on Equal Opportunities, which contained the request not only to give more competence to the President of the Commission, but above all also to the Management Committee, because it would be useless if one had a chairman who is ahead of a Commission, but at the same time to deal with the many work, the work around it, the preparation of the cases, the management of the protocol and many others no longer sufficient resources are available. But that is exactly what you have rejected. But maybe need it. You're the money for something else, Minister. [[Federal Minister Mag. He's talking to one of his employees.]] But he doesn't have time to listen anyway. We are already used to that, we have experienced it several times today. Federal Minister! It is quite interesting how much money was spent on external advice alone in one year. The Minister needs external advice, and in the Equal Treatment Committee he has opened up another step: He needs, he said, external opinions, too. [[Abg. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Would you ensure that the Federal Minister listens!]] He doesn't care: We no longer have a women's policy, so why should a minister look after the government bank, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[The aforementioned employee is removed from the government bank.]] As I said, External opinions have also been announced. So far 1.9 million schilling will not be enough, but there will be much more money needed. Only, Minister: What do you want me to say? – We have an excellently composed equal treatment commission. We do not need an external opinion, but we need an actionable equal treatment committee, and it needs good management, and this management needs an infrastructure. We give you another opportunity today to agree to the provision of this infrastructure. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] We will see if you can do it in the second run and choose this infrastructure, but you probably have to give less advice – less such advice, I fear, which is not in the interest of equal treatment and equality. Perhaps the opinion from your men's department, Mr. Minister. Minister! I'll ask you a question. What does a Commission do without a Presidency? We are talking today about the improvement of a chairman in the context of this amendment, but this chairman has not been here for four months now! For four months, the Equal Treatment Commission has been without a Presidency – and the Minister is looking forward to doing so does not make this Commission work at last. The chairman should receive a deputy or a deputy; you do not know that exactly. But I wonder, Deputy to whom if there is no chairman? – A deputy, an alternate of one or one non-existent chairman – that is a very difficult question. Minister! Another thing: I was amazed at the fact that you did not agree to our committee's position, in which it would have been made clear that there should not be a chairman of the Commission now and in a very long time into the future, but only a female chairman, because it is very important that in this equal treatment commission in the next few years, in which a woman will always have much to do, a lot to do with equality. I don't understand why you didn't agree to this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – You said it was going to be a woman. Then why did you not agree to our committee statement? This mistrust is growing slowly, too, and this distrust not only has we, but above all the women in Austria have this distrust. This has already been mentioned several times today. This has been discussed several times in connection with pensions. What have women experienced in this area? I mention – I don't know how many times – the removal of women's health insurance, which is particularly hard on them. This is up to the tuition fees. I do not have enough time to present all this here, with which you have not only mistrusted women, but have caused you uncertainty instead of security, Minister. And where does the big novelle remain to the equal treatment law, the great novelle that stands for very clear factual reasons? The European Union tells us that we need action. I would like to remind you once again of what it really is about, which novelle really needs to be here today next to the mini-mini-novelle you brought in here. The European Court of Justice says that we must remove the upper limit on damages. Some of you, who were already sitting in Parliament during the previous legislative period, may still remember: In the other equal treatment law, in which for the public service, we have abolished the damages ceiling. – The negotiations of the social partners ended in the summer of 1999 and were not resumed after the formation of the government. I am very afraid that the ÖVP has a strong word here, because it was already said by the ÖVP that this would not be possible for the private sector to have no similar legislative innovations. The Send Directive is not transposed. The burden of proof directive is not implemented – and the situation is very bad especially with regard to this burden of proof directive. I will explain it to you, because you will not deal with equal treatment on a daily basis. [[Abg. Silhavy: Never at all! That's the problem!]] What does the European Union say? The European Union says that the applicant or the complainant must make it credible. He or she must prove. This is the European Union's burden of proof. And what do we have in the law? – Austria has been sparse in this regard since the end of last year. – In Austrian law, the situation is still such that both must make credible, and that is too little, ladies and gentlemen! Let me tell you something about it: At the same time, we also need the transfer of evidence, the belief in sexual harassment, even if it does not require the European Union. In this area, we would really have done everything necessary if we had this credulity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Mr Pumberger did not know that at the end of 2000 already quite other people were in office. [[Abg. Weekly countries: In 1999 you missed the deadline!]] If I remember correctly, we did not have any more women's ministers at that time. Mr Minister, something else: I'm very surprised. We had a sufficient equal treatment committee in which much was discussed about the equal treatment law for the public service – and then what did we have to hear in the "High House"? The interview of the Minister, in which he said that a novel has already been negotiated. Mrs Rauch-Kallat, I don't know why you didn't at least tell us that! It seems that everything is already going on, that exactly what we would like to do is to suspend the order procedure if a person goes to the Equal Treatment Commission. We would like to agree immediately. But why, Mrs Haller, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, let us, the representatives of the opposition parties, discuss in committee and then say in retrospect – quote –: Yeah, you shouldn't have looted everything before!Unknown term type: "%s".? I do not understand this under government and ministerial responsibility, because you have not only an information right, you have an information obligation to the Committee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As you do to the Committee, you do it to the women in Austria, but they have long been taking their own steps on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14744	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Prammer and comrades are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Haller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14769	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Our religion tells us that God created the world in seven days. Science relativizes this and says that it is only symbolic and that it has been millions of years. There is a saying: Rome was not built in one day. – Just like that, I think it's total. I now do not want to compare the equal treatment law, which in the meantime has adopted immensely with the comments, with these two first-mentioned events. But from a liberal point of view, I am opposed to a statement by Mr Prammer, whom she made in her minority report on this amendment to the equal treatment law, namely that the question of equal treatment has only become a marginal issue of social and social policy. On the other hand, I defend myself with all vehemence. Even today, Mrs Prammer's argument has again gone in this direction. But that's just not true! It is only this that women's policy, which you have done in your own way for years, is now being continued in our own way, in the light of the fact that this male policy, this anti-female women's policy, which you have done, has now changed. If you say today, Mrs Prammer, that's just a very, very small change in the law that we are making today, then I will tell you: Yes, it is a small change of law, but you as a minister have not even caused this small change of law! And I would like to remind you that if you say now to Mr. Federal Minister that he has announced the big change but has not yet done it: You too – and I remember very well – have not only announced this major change in the equal treatment law, but have not been implemented for years. It is your responsibility, Mrs Prammer, and the responsibility of the Social Democrats that the Presidency is still an undisputed honorary office in the Equal Treatment Commission. It is your responsibility that all members of the Equal Treatment Commission may appoint an alternate, only the chairperson. Why have you not changed this for a long time? You're mounting today that this is just a very, very small change? At any rate, we are striving – and this is an initiative that has already been launched by Minister Sickl – to ensure that this Commission will perform its tasks quickly and efficiently in the future. I have to ask you: Why don't you have in the fourth novel, for example, in the XX. The legislative period has been decided – that is not so long ago – but these small changes, which would, however, contribute significantly to a better process, to a better work of the Equal Treatment Commission, have been made? And the other change that the Social Minister now has responsibility for this area is not that new either. Already in the common version of the Equal Treatment Act concerning Equal Treatment Commission, this area was assigned to the Social Minister – then Federal Minister for Social Administration. On your amendments and committee statements. Mrs Prammer, we see that all these requests, which come from your side, are actually just a covert tactic, a distraction maneuver, which is supposed to distract you from your failures, from the things you have not carried out. And today you come here and assemble all these things. In contrast, the Greens have tabled a very constructive amendment, which has now finally resulted in a four-party proposal, because we have immediately seen: That's a concreteization, that makes sense. After legal examination, both government parties have actually agreed immediately to include this suggestion in the law. Mrs Prammer, one Council: If you want more serious women's policy in the future, we will also be able to accept your proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14832	As the next speaker, Mrs Rauch-Kallat is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14853	Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With this amendment to the Equal Treatment Act, an unsolicited honorary office, the office of chairman of the Equal Treatment Commission, becomes a paid office. The aim is to speed up the process by speeding up its judgements, as the previous situation, which lasted for about a year, was unsatisfactory for all parties involved. A second important point: There has so far been no regulation in relation to a representative. This law now creates a representative in the event that the chairman of the Presidency is prevented from doing the ongoing work of the Commission, which is also secured by a salary in the appropriate framework, of course only for the duration of the delegation. The average cost of this measure is estimated at around 1 million schillings per year. These are the costs of an academic per year. The Federal Minister has assured that all the necessary resources that this chairman of the Equal Treatment Commission needs, such as additional opinions, can naturally be requested. It is, therefore, what you have requested in your request, the SPÖ's request, Mrs Prammer, has already been fulfilled by the circumstances. The demands made by the Greens in their amendment to the Committee were not met. We have already indicated there that we consider this claim to be quite reasonable, but have reserved an examination by the Ministry of Justice, because in particular there would be the possibility of a precedent. We therefore did not agree to the Committee. This afternoon we learned from the Ministry of Justice that nothing would be wrong with this amendment. I have therefore, as is usual, agreed with my colleague from the Freedom Party and, in my name, for my group, Mr Petrovic and Mr Lunacek, we are willing to respond to a four-party request on this issue, because it is not understandable that the request of a person concerned inhibits the time limits in court, but not the request of the equal treatment officers. This amendment, which will then be tabled by Mr Petrovic, the four-party request, is thus intended to make it explicitly clear that the suspension of time limits also occurs in the case of a request from the equal treatment lawyer or in the event of the Commission's taking action. This was in itself intentioned by the original legislator anyway. However, the OGH has interpreted this differently and applied it exclusively to the application for clarification in the text of § 10b. Of course, this can have absolutely negative consequences for women who are discriminated against, and we do not want to do so. That is why we have been happy to vote in favour of a four-party proposal. I have, of course, left it to Mr Petrovic, to discuss it with the SPÖ, and therefore have no bad conscience because of any lack of information. Since I have seen that you have already "run" on this request, it was clear that They must have been informed of this request. [[Abg. May. Prammer: I talked about something completely different!]] I don't think there should be any sensitivity here. I believe, however, that this item on the agenda is also appropriate to discuss very briefly the real inequality in working life, which still exists, namely the uneven wage for equivalent work. It is still one of the most serious problems in working life that women deserve less than men, and it should be our concern to eliminate this serious inequality as soon as possible. There is an area where this is not the case, namely the officials. With the employees of the federal government, the state has already enforced its role as a model for God. In this area, there is the same wage for equivalent work, and it is to be said that, unfortunately, there is still still inequality in career jumps. It must be our concern to achieve the elimination of this inequality also in private economic life. I believe that it should be a common concern of the social partners, especially in the course of collective treaty negotiations, to have a special influence on those wage groups that are primarily occupied by women in the course of the salary statements. Since today's social partnership has reached an agreement on "the completion of work", I would like to see the social partners adopting themselves, in particular, on the issue of equal pay for equal work, which is one of the next priority points in their work programme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would also, of course, like to see a career promotion for women. We know, of course, that wage differences also come, and above all, that women reach higher-quality positions in a lower number, which in turn is linked to continuing training. Training costs time, however. [[Abg. May. Worm: And money since the latest!]] The still dominant distribution of roles between men and women in family work naturally means that women remain less time for their continuing vocational training. I would therefore like to see a special promotion of women in the field of in-house training, in which in-house career planning is aimed at providing women-friendly training courses, i.e. shorter but perhaps more often offered and linked to childcare, so that women will also be able to accept these training opportunities. If there is a special focus on these points when it comes to promoting careers, then more women will become top positions in the future. Mentoring programs can also reach yours. Therefore, all companies are invited from themselves to the "human resources", that is to say not to give up on the human quality of women and to do everything in their field to also put women in top positions.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14915	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Your speaking time will be limited to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14937	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The novice we're negotiating today is a long overdue one. In the case of a Commission that does much and important work, it would have been totally unthinkable in other areas that this work is carried out free of charge that there is not even an exemption to the same extent. No one would have come to the idea, in a case other than – and that is symptomatic! – in a Commission where women work for women, it is assumed that members do a lot of hours of difficult, demanding work only for the wages of God. I am therefore very glad that this change has now been made, although, of course, one has to say objectively that it is coming very late. But at least she came! Otherwise, I share the view that, of course, a major innovation of all the rules on equal treatment would have been announced for a long time. I also know that many such designs have already been completed. In my opinion, the Federal Government, which would otherwise like to try the various sayings of speed, should, especially in this context, so when it comes to equal opportunities, when it comes to real equality, hurry up a little more and put forth a little more effort. I shall now bring in the four-party motion which Mrs Rauch-Kallat has already mentioned, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am pleased and pleased that it was – and this is rarely enough – possible in a committee to stimulate a discussion process and come to a four-party consensus-making process, and I would like us to look for such a similar sound and subsequently realize it, especially in matters of equality. Federal Minister! I would like to say the following: You too have certainly already noticed that whenever it comes to the men's department and the question of the public presentation of the issue of equality, the waves are quite high. I often had the impression that you feel a little unfair. They have always pointed out that: They also set up other departments such as those relating to women's health – which was certainly important. However, I personally do not wonder that in these reactions to the men's department, a high degree of annoyance has always developed. But this is the case – and I wanted to tell you that here, because I think it is important to create a better climate for the development of equal treatment rights – not because it would be inappropriate to treat also the other side, that is, the concern of men, in your place of residence and then in the next place in the house. And it is not at all that this was about hostilities or similar things, but it is the way in which this department and, subsequently, the work of this department has been presented. The point of approach cannot be – as it always resounds –: In fact, men are the poor in society, the discriminated, those who are too short, and it only has a forerunnery another appearance! The starting point should be: How can women and men benefit from the fact that this society becomes a little more "equal"? In other words, men should have more opportunities to exercise their rights outside their profession, i.e. within the framework of the family, within the framework of partnerships. And: On the other hand, how is it possible for women to find real equal opportunities in all the other areas of public life, i.e. in the profession, in politics and so on? We know that "equal" societies – until then it takes a long time, but this is important to raise awareness – tend less strongly to violent acts, that is, the level of violence is falling. We also know that it is much easier to create freely chosen personal ties and partnerships, which are not based on an economic compulsion, but are simply wanted by the parties involved. If then sentences fall like: In fact, women's pensions would have to be much lower than men's pensions, namely if we were to act justly and apply capital mathematical procedures!, then, I must say, you do not need to be surprised, Mr Federal Minister, if in these reactions there is a great deal of anger to aggression, because this is really an approach that really wants to make the differences bigger and the situation is simply wrong! From the point of view of the Greens, there is therefore an absolute yes to gender and gender research, precisely with the aspect of equality. But do not ask this polarization by pointing out who is even poorer! That doesn't mean anything! I am very happy when we come to the point of women's policy that we are not complaining of a bad status quo, but rather that we are moving a little more towards justice, as is admittedly small, but yet perceptible, with this step today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15028	The amendment tabled by Mr Prammer, Mr Haller, Mr Rauch-Kallat, Mr Petrovic and Mr colleagues is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15052	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, I am right to say that it would be better if progress were to be made faster, but we are at least with careful steps in a progress process. In your speech you have rubbed something at the poll of the men's department, to the statements of one or other scientific expert who presented his opinion there. In my opinion, however, it is the task of an survey to present a wide range of opinions, not only individual opinions, and thus to allow a discussion between positive and negative views of the broad range of gender development in Austria, to make it transparent, in order to finally proceed in those ways which the Ministry has undertaken. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! I would like to thank you for mentioning in your speech that the important issues of women's policy are certainly not about increasing the funds for the equal treatment commission, as my ministry has implemented the corresponding wishes of the former chairmen and those of the future chairmen and their deputys in relation to the work they need until now and will continue to be realized in the future. In contrast to Mrs Prammer, however, I say clearly: We are trying within the Federal Government to keep the administration slim. Therefore, in the sense of a narrower administration, we are forced to purchase some service in the case of difficult legal issues, in order not to have to maintain a disproportionate staff in all areas of administration, which then deals with some of the unthinkable, which appears in the administration or also has legal problems, with a wealth of officials. The fact that this leads to different positions between you, Mrs Prammer, and the majority in this Parliament, is obvious, because the discussions towards a proper administrative reform, just as the federal states and God imagine themselves to be Thanks to the Federal Government, are on a good footing; as well as the potential for savings, which will enable important new goals for society as a whole. I therefore believe it is important that the appropriate funding programme of my ministry, the Total Equality Programme, is now being successfully implemented in a model project to promote equal opportunities. The final report should be available at the end of this year. The selected companies will develop and implement first steps and measures to promote equal opportunities. These measures to promote equal opportunities in enterprises and organisations shall be implemented in the following areas of action: Employment situation of women and men in enterprises, in particular: collection of the effects of part-time, full-time, pay-levels, hierarchical functions and qualifications; Staff: recruitment, promotion of young people in the relevant criteria; Staff development and further training: access to all training opportunities for women and men, needs- and functional training courses, regular employee talks, application of targeted personnel development tools for both sexes, targeted promotion of female employees through gender-specific offers (including part-time workers), collection and evaluation of gender-specific data for training and further development, use of trainers; Compatibility of family and work; partnership at work: Thematicalisation of the cooperation of both genders at the workplace and the identification of contact persons for problems and conflicts; Institutionalisation of equal opportunities and equal opportunities as a company philosophy: Confessions on equal opportunities in public relations, awareness-raising, statements on equal opportunities in publications, conviction work among decision-makers, awareness-building among employees. I can add, Mrs Prammer, that I have started to officially involve women's organisations in the review process not only from the point of view of the Ministry of Women's Redesign, but also from other legislative bodies. In my opinion, this is also a step forward, namely that women are already involved in Parliament's legislation in the run-up to it, so that we may experience it more often, Mrs Petrovic, that a four-party request will then be made in the Committee, also with the support of the Minister of Justice and my home, from an opposition request. Now more about the deadline: Mrs Prammer, you know very well – because this has also been sent to you with certainty on the basis of the participants in the Committee – that, of course, under the direction of the highly valued woman section manager Knöfler of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, there has been social partners' discussions for further development. These social partners' discussions have then led to the joint conclusion that enlargement already completed at European level in the Commission, whose adoption in the European Parliament is still pending, has to be incorporated into the major innovation. I therefore believe that if one knows that in the spring of this year there have been social dialogues, in which a majority of people have agreed to make the small novels equal and the big novels are unfair only when the new situation is taken into account at European level, then my ministry is likely to charge today's decision-making as a failure by the majority of this House. It is fair that you, Mrs Prammer, should also have said that the deadline at European level has already expired in 1990 – at a time when you were still a woman's minister. [[Abg. May. Prammer: No! That's not true!]] I would not have been so rude to mention that if you did not here in another point in the consciousness of how the processes were and are, you would have made a statement that left this question open and meant a clear debt allocation towards this federal government and a complete negation of your own position. [[Abg. May. Prammer: You promised us in March...!]] I apologize for having to say this so clearly.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15105	The next speaker was Mr Sevignani. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15127	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Minister for Social Security and Generations has presented the equal treatment report 1997 to 1999, which has already been completed in the Committee. There have been several necessary changes. In addition to necessary adaptations to EU law and improvements to preventive measures, it is necessary to set up an exemption for the Presidency in the Federal Equal Treatment Commission in order to reward this function. On the basis of the well-known high and constantly increasing work experience – complaints, advice, preparatory and follow-up work and so on – we are all convinced that this measure, as well as the creation of a representative, is a necessary requirement. These measures ensure that the processing time for pending complaints and proceedings is reduced in the future, i.e. the interested parties, the complainants, do not have to wait so long for this decision. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the kind of liberals that we react to reasonable suggestions and needs as soon as possible, in concrete terms now with the submission of relevant legal provisions by means of a novel to the equal treatment law – a proof that we are working quickly and efficiently and are not all being pushed to the long bank. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That's what he said!]] It seems important to me that the chairman of the Equal Treatment Commission should be set aside as a matter of course. For me, it is an important point to establish this function outside the political and administrative spheres. I would therefore ask you to have a broad constitutional agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15168	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. Your speaking time is adjusted to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15190	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about this happy four-party proposal. The work, the result and the motivation to continue to work, but also relate to the men's department already addressed in your department, Mr. Federal Minister. In the course of the first survey I could not participate in, because there was no invitation – but that is not an accusation! – some of the results of the six-month work of this male department have been presented. I welcomed this section VI/6 – it is internally classified – at its establishment and I still welcome it and its work. What does the first balance show? This is what we have to work on: Men are more overwhelmed or challenged than women with changes in society. With divorces and their consequences, they can deal worse than women, they are less sufferingable, and they are less willing to get help. They are less happy to go to therapy or advice. They also suffer, as stated in the report of this survey, from the career losses when they make "carence-time trials". They also suffer from what the sociologists call "house feudalization", i.e. a consortium syndrome. This is actually not new, but if women have articulated these phenomena, then they have actually been underestimated and pushed aside. The survey of the men's department has also promoted that men – and this is a relatively new knowledge; I emphasize: only relatively new – because of their change of life, because of their relationship to their own body, because of dealing with health and health issues have higher mortality and higher suicide rates and therefore a higher self-hazardousness. And now it will be critical, and that is what I would like to add to Mrs Petrovic's comments: What conclusions have the experts present there drawn? If someone is a social rights expert, he doesn't necessarily have to be one who is an expert in gender issues. It's not enough to say there: Because housewives are easier to get involved in the housewives role and are easier to deal with unemployment, men should be given special help in the event of job losses. Ladies and gentlemen! Otherwise, the method must look! We must fight unemployment to the same extent among women! The condensation syndrome is exactly the same there. And we must help men to cope with feelings, to deal with unemployment, to deal with neglect, to deal with divorce consequences. I have the impression that in the survey at least the business expert Bauer-Jelinek has the competence to articulate the problems. Although she is not a social rightist, she is a human and structural know-how and therefore also a professional person. She stressed that men need to learn these new skills. I would ask you, Minister of State, that this dimension, too, be taken into account in the future research projects you intend to award. The feminization of the education and social world, that is, the mostly female share in the field of kindergarten, school, higher school, can be compensated for, about the way the kindergarten association "Kiwi" does. There is positive discrimination for men. In the case of equal qualifications, men are primarily employed as nurses. I would also like to see such positive elements of discrimination for women. Federal Minister! It is also likely that – and this shows how much women's policy is cross-sectional – we need to think about how we can change divorce law and marriage law and thus reduce divorce consequences in such a way that men do not end up in conflict with women fighting for maintenance, that is to say, find a solution, and the mediator can at least help. If it is true that the economically independent woman does not threaten with undue maintenance demands, then it is clear where political action should be taken: already very early with his own income, with his own old age insurance. I believe that with today's four-party proposal, we have also set a signal for the intention of devoting ourselves from the ground to and with all seriousness to these causes. And if I can give faith to your first replicas on the questions already raised, Mr Federal Minister, and I would like to do so, then we also look forward to proper, sound processing and research, including the development of solutions, and I am particularly pleased to see this happen. Work is enough. We got a little bit further. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15259	The next speaker was Mrs Wachslander. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15280	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Mag. Prammer! I was actually very pleased with the fact that the negotiations were so smooth, so harmonious. That is why I was not only at your speech, but already before, the next day when I read the SPÖ press release, I was quite disappointed. In the issue it was said – I quote literally –: "The implementation of the novelle on the law on equal treatment for the private sector in the equal treatment committee yesterday" – and now, please be careful! – “ ‘very nice’, but could not conceal the failure in women’s policy, said Prammer.” [[Agreed gesture of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] I must personally say that "very nice" of course expresses something certain to me. And have concerning the absences You did not say anyway, Mrs Prammer, that they came from this government, but probably from yours, I can only imagine, because there were little nice things, but rather nonsense. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: How, for example, the equal treatment laws!]] What you mean by equal treatment or equality is also a mystery to me. Just under your leadership, it has happened that the chairman of the Federal Equal Treatment Commission has immediately received a reward, while the chairman and his deputy to the private sector equal treatment commission have not received a reward and, as it were, worked on a voluntary basis, which the respective lady certainly honours, but on the other hand shows that there certainly is no such equality as I imagine it to be, because the same framework conditions are also a ban on equality for me. Honestly, a few things are added. I understand that you are finally trying to live up to your opposition role, but on the other hand, you can't argue that our "woman minister", as you call him, has implemented more in the short time of his ressort responsibility than it ever was possible for you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Exactly!]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: But the minister just said something else!]] Believe me, if Magi. Mainly assured that the work on the novelle on the equal treatment law is progressing rapidly, and he assumes to be able to complete it by the end of the year, then it is not like you claim that the blue-black coalition allows the women to wait for the great novel to the equal treatment law. It just takes his time, because it was true: Of course, what you left behind to chaos in women's policy takes time to be put back in order. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They see the adaptation of Austrian legislation to EU law as particularly urgent. I'll give you all the right. But I also ask you – the Federal Minister has come before me, but I cannot leave it, I have really read it through: What is the failure to do if the deadline for implementation of the EU Send Directives, as you stated, expires in mid-December 1999? Skill You remember how long you were in office as a women's minister? I think that's part of your competence. Re-establishment of the Presidency of the Committee on Equal Opportunities for the private sector: From circles of the SPÖ – how could it be different? – the accusation that the private sector equal treatment committee has been without a chairman since June. I am very consciously using the feminine term of this position here, because the Minister has said very well that a woman will again be in charge of this office. Nevertheless, I can refer to Volume 2, the practical part of the joint report on the implementation of the equal treatment law from 1999. It says on page 46 – I quote –: "After the former chairman, Dr. Anna Sporrer, left office at the end of 1998, a presidency work began until April 1999. During this period, many new cases were introduced by the interest groups, resulting in a large number of pending procedures." So please: They talked about four months ago. Here, after my account, it is five months in which this office was not occupied! You didn't complain about that, you didn't regret it. Where is there, please, the equality?, I would like to ask again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, one more thing: You referred to the external consultation, Mrs. Ex-Minister Prammer. I must say that external advice is used in various areas. I'd rather ask someone to ask experts and scientists than to act in such a way that no woman is satisfied with it. You can ask the women who have suffered your policies so to speak: You were really not satisfied with you! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15381	As the next speaker, the honourable Member's friend is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15415	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The government's proposal for a debate is an essential step towards the promotion of equal treatment for men and women in working life. My previous speakers have already pointed out: The Equal Treatment Act currently provides for an unpaid, voluntary chairmanship of the Equal Treatment Commission, to which women and men have access. The long duration of the proceedings – on average one year – and the great effort in dealing with the cases make a new regulation of the position of the Commission's chairperson essential. In addition, the ongoing regionalisation of the equal treatment prosecution results in more and more persons concerned finding access to the equal treatment commission. This extension on the one hand cannot remain on the other side without precipitation on the resources of the Equal Treatment Commission. Ladies and gentlemen! This legislative adjustment is a very important step in the field of equal treatment in Austria. The procedures are accelerated and upgraded. This will give even more people affected the courage to turn to the Equal Treatment Commission. Those who turn to the Commission in the future can be sure that their procedures will be done quickly and efficiently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The acceleration of the outcome of the proceedings saves those concerned an unpleasant period of waiting. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the Committee on Equal Opportunities, which represents the rural area, I would particularly like to point out the important role of women in our society, especially in the countryside. The position of women in our society has also been restored this year – especially on 15. October, on the International Day of Landwives – expressed. I do not want to let this debate pass without referring to this day. The Landwives aim at a wide range of social concerns with their work. They take care of child rearing, play a major role in nutrition as well as in advice and ensure a lively rural area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They play a key role in ensuring that rural areas maintain their multifunctionality and vitality. In addition, they have a role to play between the various actors of society and are an engine of peace. ==References== October all over the world in the sign of the country women – women who are more and more doing not only for their families, but also directly keeping the courts running and doing incredible things for the rural area! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15473	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 745 of the supplements. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I first make a provision within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Prammer and comrades submitted an additional request. The Members of Parliament also have power. Prammer, Haller, Rauch-Kallat, Dr. Petrovic and comrades submitted an additional request. I therefore begin by voting on the parts concerned by the supplementary proposals and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, including title and receipt. The amendment by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Prammer and comrades provide for the insertion of a paragraph 1c in § 10. I would ask those Members who have spoken in favour of this to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Deputies Mag. Prammer, Haller, Rauch-Kallat, Dr. Petrovic and Comrades have an additional request concerning the insertion of a § 10b Abs. 2 introduced. I am looking for a positive sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. The request was adopted unanimously. I shall now vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to be a sign of confirmation. – He was adopted unanimously. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – He was adopted unanimously. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. 10. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 355/A (E) by Mr Mag. Barbara Prammerand comrades on the implementation of a basic women's demand catalogue based on women's desire (805 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15560	We shall now proceed to item 10 of the agenda. There is no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15589	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is now over four years since the women's popular desire took place. It was a very successful popular desire. You remember: almost 650 000 signatures – that's a lot! They probably also remember that, following this, there have been hot discussions about how we have implemented this women's desire. After more than four years, it is now time again to see how much has been implemented, what is still open and what steps are planned to come closer to this implementation. But the times in which we have discussed how we implement the individual demands of the women's people's desire, the times when we have discussed what would be the best solution to the respective demand are over. Today we have a complete standstill in women's policy. Women's policy has de facto been abolished. In clear text: Women's policy has actually been replaced by men's policy. The term "gender policy" is called "men's policy". [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why are you talking about problems that don't exist at all? Do you have a problem?]] There is a very interesting report on the state of implementation of the women's people's desire, which you, Federal Minister, have distributed this year at the conference of the national women's representatives. This is a very informative report in which you present point by point the demands and intentions. Especially exciting – from my perspective and of course also for today's discussion – is the respective point "implementation". I looked at this very carefully. It is very clear from your own documents that the implementation was actually discontinued by 1999; I do not want to say that it is complete. Some important steps have been taken at the time, but it has always been clear to us that we want to continue. But even according to your own paper, the implementation steps ended with 1999, although many of the points of women's popular desire – in fact, all points of women's popular desire – still have a high level of up-to-dateity. After all, you're taking a position on women's policy here and there. Apart from the quality of the statements, only from quantity, we are not very spoiled with opinions on your part on women's policy. But you have recently given a very informative interview with a women's magazine, in which you are a woman's minister, for example, on the subject of kindergarten. It is of course interesting in what form. You explain in this interview: No, for so many teenage grandmothers are better suited than a qualified nurse who leaves the desk at 5 a.m. without caring if children are picked up because of a traffic jam perhaps ten minutes later. I wonder when discussing the quality of child rearing, how we have survived over all the millenniums when kindergartens have not yet been available. - Quote. Minister! You may have missed the fact that there has been significant progress in many areas of society in the last millennium. In any case, you have obviously passed by, which woman could actually expect from you as a woman's minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this statement, you have not only depreciated a professional group, which is also a majority of women's working groups and plays an essential role in social policy, but have also once again labeled the kindergarten as a place of storage and completely negated the educational, educational and educational task. I am not talking about this – this is of course particularly important in this context – that we expect you to make statements about how you want to initiate the improvement of the reconciliation of work and family life. Once more She agreed in this interview that, of course, childcare facilities should also be extended to improve the compatibility of work and family. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This speech could also be given to the woman car servant!]] On the one hand, they are depressing responsibility to the countries they already bear, but supporting measures of the federal government would be necessary. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This speech could also be given to the woman car servant!]] They say that only the improvement of opening hours would be necessary, but not the extension, which of course is completely wrong. Both are necessary: better opening hours and more support places! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mrs. Wagenknecht could also give this speech!]] There is much to be said about other points, such as the age insurance of women who have already been talked about today. In any case, much remains to be done in the implementation of the women's people's desire. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Do you know the woman car servant?]] Some steps, important steps have been taken long ago. I am not so moved to say that this is feasible from today to tomorrow, it is clear to me, of course, that this is not possible, but, Mr Federal Minister, the standstill that has taken place today is unbearable!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15708	The next speaker was Mrs Haller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15730	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! We are now debating a request from the Social Democratic Party concerning the implementation of a basic catalogue of women's rights based on women's desire. Of course, we all remember the women's desire, and I do not argue that it was a successful popular desire in terms of declarations of support. But let's talk about implementation. I believe that, at one time, social democracy, especially the former Minister of Women Prammer, was primarily called upon to explain to the population and, above all, to those women who supported this popular desire, why she did not implement anything in her role as Minister of Women. If Mrs Kuntzl says today that the implementation has been cancelled, I will tell you: The implementation has never begun under a women's minister Prammer! She never happened! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The arguments put forward by Mrs Kuntzl are the same as To the other one, that of Mrs. Prammer: Nothing new under heaven. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: What do you do for the women?]] But the fact that we are actually not so far apart in what we want actually proves the first, the introductory sentence I can agree with from my point of view. That global actual equality of opportunity has not yet been achieved, that in Austria over the last 30 years, a wealth of laws have been implemented to promote equality, and yet a further path to the eradication of sexual injustices is still to be achieved – yes, until here d’accord! We have also started this step by step, and there is nothing to do with it. Have this first step They also agree today, and of course the next steps will follow. But if I continue to look at your proposal and the Preamble on this, then I must say that this unscrupulous way of dealing with women's policy continues from your side. For example, there are not 18 billion schillings in family promotion, which were newly decided, but it is 9 billion schilling. We are proud to be able to offer Austrian women this alternative: if they want to stay at home with their children. What you're saying is just wrong! If you claim that this federal government deletes the funding for women's projects, that's just wrong! You really can't assume that projects – and a project always has a certain time limit – will be suspended when they run out or have proved to be inefficient. [[Abg. Silhavy: What is efficient?]] There are enough people who judge this, Mrs Silhavy, I do not want to rely on your personal assessment. [[Abg. Silhavy: I don't want that either!]] That's quite clear once. They claim that there has been a conservative setback in this government. So I have to say, I have nothing against conservative values, against conservative value resistance. [[Abg. May. Prammer: I believe that's what you're talking about!]] That's what I'm talking about. These values may be negative for you, not for me. But now, if I look at the demands you make in detail, I really have to say: I even think it's bad what you're asking for! – Abortion of pregnancy is expected to be carried out in hospitals and clinics throughout Austria under the time-limit scheme. They demand a free contraception, we, the government, say: We promote children and not abortion! They demand that the law of childhood be changed again because the automatic common care does not correspond to your ideas. You are wrong: There is no automatic common care! Mrs Petrovic said today that equal treatment policies should be understood to benefit men and women. I agree with that, and I must say that the new regulation in the field of care also benefits men, not just women. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But only the men!]] This is a real equality policy, as I understand it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact that enough money is still available for women's projects has already been explained to you by the Federal Minister. If you still claim so often that this is not true – it will not become more true. We are clear that the equal treatment laws for the private sector are to be extended, and that is what we stand for. Only today has the Minister said that this is happening, that the social partners are already very far away during the negotiations. – So I can only repeat again: What you're doing here is not a serious women's policy, really not!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15835	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15857	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! It is nevertheless remarkable that despite the advanced hour and not extremely filled series of banks, it seems to be dealing with a lot of emotions, especially on the part of the gentlemen on the outside, but that does not seem surprising to me. [[Abg. Gaugg: I want your imagination!]] I do not have the impression that there is really a willingness here to break the head seriously about equality matrices. [[Abg. Gaugg: I want your imagination! Listen to you!]] – You prove it, you are obviously very emotionally loaded. It goes – and this has once been said by a critical man researcher – with the privileges that ultimately hurt the men in order to justify some kind of complicity of the men within the framework of a hegemonial power that can no longer be justified objectively. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Sit down with Mr Voggenhuber!]] Then come the men who, under the coat of science, also say: Yes, we have a hegemonial power, which is actually inconceivable and not justified, and that is why we are so poor because we have not learned to deal with losses and have a higher level of aggression – which you are proving again, gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Unfortunately, but you too have the opportunity to learn and work on the gender question. Mr Oellinger, Mr Grünewald, Mr Pirklhuber have already experienced gender work programmes in the context of the green movement. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr. Pirklhuber claimed that all of Austria is a "sweine stable"!]] Perhaps you could also gain more quality of life and also increase your life expectancy in the way that women do if you are seriously dealing with such gender programs. The gentlemen of the Greens are happy to explain this to you. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The fact is: There was a women's popular desire. This has by far made the obstacle provided for in the Constitution of 100,000 signatures, yes, it has been able to unite much more signatures, but it has not been fulfilled – and this has been determined by everyone today. It is now said by the government that it has taken other steps, which are ultimately also relevant to this objective. In this context, for example, it is repeatedly referred to the child care allowance and what parents supposedly want or wanted. – Well, ladies and gentlemen, but then we don’t respond to popular desire! I think the proponents of popular desire were and are powerful enough to formulate what they want. It is without a doubt a right of majority to say: We don't want this, we don't do it like that, but then you stand by it! Make sure you reject it, and don't talk about it: Actually, they didn't really know what they wanted, we're offering them something much better, something that's much better for their wishes – I don't think that's a louder political answer! Ladies and gentlemen! It is always about the issue of women's policy, gender policy on family policy, and I must say that I would really have liked to see one in connection with legislative projects already adopted, in particular with the issue of child care, instead of the debate: How is this likely to affect?, but once – and this would also be a useful incentive in the context of gender research – to other countries that have already realized different models. I personally believe that the question of whether or not someone has children is and should remain a purely private matter and cannot lead to discrimination in labour and social law. I also think that it is very often not just a question of personal decisions, but of biographies, of life developments, whether people have children or not. I do not therefore believe that it is a political task to promote or stimulate the richness of children, but it was a matter of ensuring that people, in particular women, can implement their life plans. We know that the original child wish of couples who have not yet had children is not feasible to the extent of women who do not yet have children. My question, therefore, is: What's going on? Two, three children are usually desired, and in fact only 1.3 children per woman are born on the statistical average. Obviously, there is something that makes it difficult for families to implement their life plans. If we look at the European comparison, then we see – and for me this is not a paradoxical result – that in those countries where the equality goal is already a little better made, where the differences in wages, in pensions between women and men, where career opportunities of women are better and where child-related totalcarences are very short, the birth rate is significantly higher. For me, this is not a paradox, and this is the statement that women, mothers, want to stay at home primarily, want to stay at home for a long time, but it is about the compatibility of work and family, and it is also about professional independence for women and men with children. Statistics speak a clear language. In this sense, I would have liked a gender research to be carried out, because then we would have seen that we could actually invest the money, this 18 billion schilling, in a better balance between work and family. That was also one of the demands of the women's people's desire, which I still hope will be implemented step by step. But so far, and this is a very sad statement, this has not been achieved, and for this reason, in order to give rise to this again, we will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, i.e. reject the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15954	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15975	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Petrovic, I must say: Women's policy, women's desire – this doesn't necessarily have to be compatible with family policy and family popular desire. If women and men choose children, they choose a family life, they wish for at least that, and the childcare allowance we have introduced is very likely to have its place in the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is the right of an opposition party to make claims. It will only be remembered if the Federal Government is called upon to implement measures which could not be implemented in either 30 years of socialist women's policy or are not correct in the formulation. For example, it is incorrect that the joint care – that has already been mentioned by colleague Haller – is done automatically. Rather, it is true that there is always a need for agreement between parents on common care. In case of non-function, it is possible at any time, even required, to make a request for amendment. That means you should leave the church in the village. The SPÖ applicants also see – I quote – a "conservative setback in the realization of equal opportunities between men and women". – True is rather: We from the ÖVP, we ÖVP women are conservative in value and the SPÖ women we believe, in my opinion, structural conservative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The ÖVP is also committed to a modern, realistic, forward-looking women's policy. Mrs Silhavy! I think that the call for action from the past that FPÖ was even worse than the ÖVP was not necessary. I think we're all trying to do good work on the spot. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] If you meet young, well-trained women – perhaps you do not have the opportunity to do so, but I am relatively much on the ground – then you know that these women are of the opinion that the SPÖ pursue an outdated women's policy and do not allow freedom of choice. Women want to be independent today, both want work and family! I repeat: I'm convinced that the child care allowance is gold-right. Mothers and fathers who want to live family life, it is a help in the first years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] – But these are exactly those women’s groups, where you need quality criteria and where you need to know whether it is necessary after three years – from the projects and from the region – after three years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I see the karence as an opportunity – a chance to reorientation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] - You can repeat it too. I repeat it very concretely again, so that the wrong message from Vienna to Graz does not go. [[Abg. Silhavy: You can read it in the minutes!]] I meant concrete women's projects. Unfortunately, women always have to create jobs themselves. In the future, however, this will no longer be the case, for we have an excellent Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs, who will also be able to remedy this situation in the course of the AMS reform, whether in the case of continuing vocational training, or in other matters, so that precisely these women's projects will not be necessary once or for all, but that women will be fully integrated into the work process and thus also have a chance to get back into work after another family phase. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] I also think that it is justified – and this has already been initiated by Mr Prammer – to introduce quality criteria for the promotion of women's projects. I am very grateful that more than 30 women's initiatives – whether they be women's homes or the girl's advisory services – have been successful in securing for three years each. I am also grateful for the fact that the Federal Minister introduces quality criteria for the funding on which women's representatives are now working. I did not say that women's projects should be abolished, but I would like to see whether this is necessary in a particular region, whether the conditions are there to carry out genuinely system-oriented discussions on the ground. [[Abg. Silhavy: What does "system-oriented" mean? That women stay at home?]] – "system-oriented" means providing guidance to women's wishes and needs so that they can decide on their own and on-site freedom of choice: Do I want a job? Do I want a family? Do I want a further education? How do I deal with emergency situations in family life? - And much more. [[Abg. Silhavy: Family Management!]] Finally, I would like to write something to the SPÖ woman in the main book: Each movement had and has its time, and our time speaks out for a self-confidence and fair relationship between both sexes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16104	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16125	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to thank the two previous speakers of the government parties, Mr Haller and Mr Ridi Steibl, for her commitment. I can really say here that it is not the way you do, Mrs Mag, in connection with the desire for women's people. Kuntzl, who claimed that there would have been a standstill here, but of course we are still pursuing a number of the demands in this context within the Federal Ministry of Social Security and Generations. I can do this in detail below. The claim number 2 of the women's people's desire was as follows: "Unternehmen receive promotions and public contracts only if they ensure that women are represented at all hierarchical levels according to their share of the population." Ladies and gentlemen! You know very well from the Committee that the Federal Women's Promotion Plans have been called for again by me for all Ministries, and I have also been able to tell you clearly about the exact state of the women's promotion plans in the Federal Ministries area and the state of their development. Claim No 3 reads as follows: "Equal pay for equivalent work should be sought. It is therefore necessary to ensure a minimum income of 15 000 S gross, which is adjusted annually to the life cost index." I can tell you that, of course, a significant contribution to the reduction of income differences is made by promoting women in new occupations, which are addressed by comprehensive women's technology programmes. Activities in the relevant areas have already begun and are expected to take place by 31. ==References== The preparatory work has also been completed. I therefore believe that, as far as this demand is concerned, implementation of a part of the women's area is in progress. I am quite right, Mrs Petrovic, to say that some things are going very slowly in this development, but I am not saying that we are not trying to work in this area too. I am very grateful to many women from the economy, from all areas of science and from many other areas of society for their willingness, together with Mrs Collaborative from the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture, to participate in a joint programme in schools, as women from the economy, as women who are established in society who have made their way to be available to girls and young women in higher schools, in order to further develop this path, away from classical women's careers to typical men's occupations, to better paid new professions in the IT field and all these possibilities. I am very committed to all women who make themselves available in these organizations and who, in the International Year of the Honorary Office, are also doing this work here, to act as persons of information: as "presence women", who have made the way to equality in society, the way in good positions, in good occupations, whether they are architects, structural engineers, doctors, university professors or whether they come from a wide variety of professions from different sectors. Many come from the free economy, others from learning professions – the spectrum extends from smoke catchers to sawmill owners. I therefore believe that we are also on the way to this and that there is no standstill here. But, as I have said, I am quite right, Mrs Petrovic, and I am very grateful to you for the fact that, unlike Mrs Kuntzl, you have also made some positive comment. I should also like to inform you that there is a further stage of implementation in the field of gender equality through state education measures. For example, a study on gender disparities has been carried out: Statistical analyses commissioned. We have finally done what my predecessor should have done, namely to purchase the data so that we can also have the data in this area for networking within the European Union, so that the data on the women's sector and the gender sector as a whole becomes more compatible so that we can also have the entire preparatory work. – The work will be continued in this area too. I therefore believe that the presentation of what would be a standstill in these areas is not correct. The implementation of the seventh demand for women's people's desire – "Every human being has the right to reconcile work and children. Therefore, the legislator has to provide full-day qualified care facilities for children of all ages. Daymothers must be trained and safeguarded by labour law and social law" – has been launched. I have already been able to say several times that on the one hand I am running in the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and on the other hand in the AMS programmes, through which opening hours are to be improved. You are right, Mrs Petrovic, that I have always referred to the countries on the basis of the constitutional situation at the construction stage, i.e. where the establishment of kindergartens is under discussion. However, together with colleagues Bartenstein, the AMS and also my house, we strive to develop new projects for the extension of the opening hours, on the one hand with the Federal State of Vorarlberg or with companies in the Federal State of Vorarlberg, on the other hand with Upper Austria as well as with the Federal State of Carinthia. I am very pleased that very interesting projects are being created here and also important for the multicultural development of children: important for learning the languages, not only the languages of the home region – in Carinthia Slovenian and German – but also for learning the language of the neighbouring region – i.e. Italian – which also gives the children better start opportunities. I would also like to refer to your criticism, Mrs Kuntzl, in connection with the statement made in the journal "Vienna" regarding the professional group of kindergartens. – I have been responsible for kindergartens and kindergartens for a long time during my political activity. I have experienced that there are very dedicated and very good kindergartens. But I have also experienced that, as in all other professions, there are black sheep in kindergartens. I have experienced that kindergartens with special education for Spanish children, because they were at the end of their nerves by personal irritation at home and at the workplace and rather needed meditation and help themselves, then the problems caused by their own shortcomings have lived up to the children. I have also experienced that kindergartens have been locked up without any concern and two children who have not been picked up by their parents have been left out. Nothing else has I said in the interview: that where there is a lack of knowledge, these are to be stopped – even in kindergartens – and that where the family is completely intact, where the family is actually concerned about the children – not only the child, but also the child in the whole variety of educational activities – there is no contrast for me, but on the contrary: It is a good, harmonious common solution. The childcare allowance finally gives families the opportunity to make both compatible and, in addition, family members, neighbors, trained educators in the widest range depending on the needs, but also according to the family's desire, to be involved in childcare and not to depend exclusively on the kindergarten instrument. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Nothing else matters to me and to nothing else in the Federal Government. I am also quite satisfied with the fact that in the last few days the European Union has assessed child benefits differently than it did half a year ago. Obviously, the fact that some of the European Union's ladies and gentlemen continue to spend their holidays in Austria and also in Carinthia and Styria and to spend their time there on site on the impact of the childcare allowance and the childcare model, which the Federal Government has now developed and with 1. It will be possible to develop further in 2002. In this case, it is obvious that what has come to the European Union through official channels and the media – in addition to all that has been expressed about individual individuals there in devaluing opinions – has not been enough for a comprehensive education of opinion, but it has been necessary that well-known politicians of the European Union, including those belonging to your, i.e. the Social Democratic Camp, have actually been able to learn on the ground. This has obviously led to a significant improvement in the evaluation of child care benefits in the European Union and the resulting damping effect on women's poverty is now clearly assessed positively. I therefore believe that it is also justified to say – we have always been convinced by the Federal Government, and now we have also received international recognition in this regard – that childcare money is not only a family policy concern, which serves to put the child at the centre of the interests, but also has a clear improvement in terms of women's policy concerns. That too is something the Federal Government has always claimed. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I should also like to point out, therefore, that the claim number 1 of the women's people's desire: "Every person has the right to a basic pension" with the child care allowance and the associated billing periods is not fulfilled, but we have also taken a step further here. I therefore believe that the open demands of the women's people's desire – which was actually a meeting during the last legislative period and was supposed to be done at that time – are now not being treated further in this legislative period. As I could explain to you, the very opposite is the case. As I read the newspaper articles on women's promotion again and again and again, and because unexplained issues relating to the funding in my ministry are still the subject of today's meeting, I should also like to point out that women's promotions are definitely different, Mrs Prammer and Mrs Kuntzl, when they are often presented: Women's promotions have remained almost the same despite savings in the federal government. If I calculate the three percent bond, then the funding and expenditure together in 1995 amounted to 45 million Schilling, in 1996 42 million, in 1997 44 million, in 1998 49 million, in 1999 59 million, in 2000 69 million, and in 2001, 66.9 million Schilling. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I therefore believe that I do not need to generate, even as regards the budgetary design of women's promotions, because they are higher than under the previous government. I would like to thank all those of the Members who have contributed because the budgetary authority is still in the House and not in the Ministry of Women. I can also make the changes in the awarding of 2000 in concrete figures: There have been 17 new promotions that make up a total of 4,744 million schillings. – There has been an increase in funding six times, with a total increase of 965,000 S. – There has also been twice a rejection of grants that together represent 900 000 S, and there have been two reductions in the total amount of 380 000 S. However, as I have already said, the other subsidies have been significantly higher. – There were also 13 new projects on self-protection and empowerment of women with a total value of 1.7 million schilling. So I'm allowed to repeat: Two projects fell home because of cuts, and two projects were reduced. This represents a total of 1,280 000 S. There have been increases for 17 new promotions to an extent of 4.7 million schilling, for six increases in funding of 965,000 s and for 13 new projects under the heading Self-protection and Enpowerment for women to the extent of 1.7 million schilling. The fact that, together with the Minister of the Interior for Crisis Intervention Centres, not only an increase in funding but also a long-term security could be achieved has only been noted for the sake of completeness. I therefore believe that the criticism, as formulated by the first speaker, is not sustainable in any of the points.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16257	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16279	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have tabled this motion for a resolution in order to recall the demands of the women's people's desire. There are important demands that have been signed by more than 600,000 people – women and men – who have shown that it is important to them that there is a new leap forward in women's policy. Unfortunately, we have not been able to enforce and implement very much in the constellation at that time, so that there are still a number of demands that we believe are open. I would also like to remind you, in connection with the interview that Mr Kuntzl has already referred to, of the following: Mr Minister, you have said something strange about women's policy. Among other things, you have stated that women owe the greater opportunities they have today to the previous women's policy: No, they owe this to the women and men who do great things in their professions despite a woman named Dohnal. Minister! There is no question that women are capable of being more skilled than men in order to enforce themselves in some way, but it also needs the framework conditions, and these conditions have been created by us. Mrs Dohnal, in particular, has done a lot for women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have highlighted a number of points in this proposal. One of them has already been discussed in detail in the previous debate, namely the law on equal treatment for the private sector. What we have decided today is to see positively, but unfortunately it is not very far off. I can remember that by 1999, until the elections, social dialogues have taken place, of which I felt that they were quite successful, but that they were cancelled. – You said you were going to give us something. Unfortunately, Parliament is obviously the last place where your ideas are presented. In any case, I hope that something will happen in this area. Second point: Time-limit. – We want women in every federal state to have the opportunity to have a abortion done if they consider it necessary. This is a very important and central requirement. Mrs Haller, you said you were opposed to doing family policy. – I do not want to qualify your family policy now because I do not have the time to do so, but one thing is clear: To force women to have a child if they do not want to, that is certainly not the family policy that we imagine! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If women from remote federal states, from Tyrol or Vorarlberg, have to drive to Vienna to make a stop in a clinic, this will create a social barrier, and that is something we do not want. We want every woman to have the best medical care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, on these points too, it shows how this Federal Government's attitude looks: It's about making women dependent again. This is reflected in the common care that causes women to be blackmailed into maintenance issues, which will soon become apparent in the payment of children, which is actually a case for women; this is evident at the stop for the establishment of childcare facilities. [[Abg. Wattaul: You have no idea!]] – I accept your paper that you want to introduce extended opening hours in five model communities. That's both plausible, but too little: We need more flexible opening hours, and above all we need more places for the children. In your statements, you have requalified the kindergartens. It is no question that it is very difficult for women in the area you mentioned, but then it is actually your duty to support them with psychological care and the like, so that the women who have this difficult task can really cope with them. Similarly, it is in the debate on the recently broken-out marital contracts that concerns me a lot because it is trying to call into question a success of the family law reform, because the family law reform has ensured that women get their fair share in the distribution of assets. Marriage agreements are now intended to try to eliminate this success again. I can guarantee you that we will resist it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to us to show the demands and show how different it could be, unlike the policies you are making. Our demands are on the table, and the government will be measured by how it deals with them.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16340	The next speaker is Mrs Wachlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16362	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is fully my conviction that the principle of equality, as set out in the Constitution, is really the basis for a democratic relationship. Therefore, the women's advocates for equal rights are my fullest appreciation, and there is certainly a need for further commitment in order to achieve optimal living conditions for women. On the other hand, it is true that I am part of the SPÖ resolution, which was introduced to the Equal Treatment Committee last week, for example, but go a little too far or feel a bit strange. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! It is a matter of responsible policy and not a matter of sexual arousal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think that what Mr Prammer, Mr Hlavac and Mr Wurm have said in their motion for a resolution is more than counterproductive and also directed against family values. While they are pleading for the eradication of gender inequalities in the professional, social and family sectors, they condemn the introduction of child benefits, in which they see an expensive family promotion, which is supposed to be at the expense of women who go to single parents and ban the woman back to the herd. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! As you can come to such a nonsensory view, I'm really inexplicable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also cannot understand how to stand up for equal opportunities for women and to oppose the promotion of families. Do not single parents also represent a small and even very vulnerable family for you? I really wonder. These people, these women will make it easier. I believe that you are concerned about the opposition only to destabilize the self-esteem of women, meaning more to the family and children than to careers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Children: I am right at what has shocked me in most cases, namely that you, Mrs Hlavac, and also Mrs Wurm, are demanding abortion in terms of pregnancy – and I quote literally below – and it is in the issue of Mrs. Member of the Worm, among other things, says:... the law of the time-limit solution – and now it comes! – to provide comprehensive validity. – Please, I call this a verbal derailment: "Overall Abortion of Pregnancy". [[Abg. May. Worm: Applicable!]] These were exactly the words in the issue. Ladies and gentlemen! "Flat-covering" here already refers to unborn life. [[Callback:No]] [[New call of the abg. May. Worm.]] Mrs Wurm, you are further clarifying this division by having you in your issue of 17. Hold on to the following October: SPÖ will not allow basic women's rights such as abortion to be questioned. - Right, Mrs. Wurm! I agree with you that it should not be. But I'm giving you one thing to think about: Today, prevention is a possibility and not just abortion, please, because it is said to be able to bring children into the world what is a gift from God. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] With your policy, no woman in the world will be able to get real equal rights with a child. [[Abg. May. Worm: You have no idea!]] I may have more idea than you believe. Only our views differ, for example, on the other points, on the women's projects. I just call you a few numbers: 17 projects received grants for the first time, and for another five projects, the sums were increased in a sustainable manner, and only two projects were decided against funding at the Ministry of Women. Please, what else is your regret and the whole conversation? If you allow a word for partnership, that is to say the partnership, which, for whatever reason, may fail. [[New call of the abg. May. Worm.]] One more thing is: The common care that you condemn in this way is also the only chance for a child, father and mother to continue to stay if the adult life partner can no longer be with each other. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In your motion for a resolution, you call for the implementation of a comprehensive basic women's demand catalogue based on women's desire. – That too is right and good, but I have Mrs Mag. Prammer once asked why, in cooperation with the ÖGB women, you failed to equalize the differences in income between women and men. Why did you not succeed in further developing the law on equal treatment for the private sector? They had long enough time for it. Was that not your concern at the time? Were you satisfied just because you were in the leadership position? Then at least today, try to have a little more understanding of really modern women's policy, as it does this government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16471	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16492	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, in this debate: It is actually necessary to discuss women's policy with the government parties in this House. [[Abg. Wattaul: Go, stop!]] They keep talking about family policy, not women's policy. By the way, they are talking about a very discriminatory family policy, because good family policy could actually include a progressive women's policy. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wattaul.]] You just make one: They express what you expect from women in this society, which roles in society you expect from women and men. And we're quite clear about that. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wattaul.]] The question is only what answers the women themselves give to these questions. They all know that for young women, but not only for young women, it is an absolute matter of course or a matter of course to be active. However, in order to be able to work, there is a need for framework conditions, and precisely these conditions will be maintained often and often: see childcare facilities, see working time questions, see above all also the half-half distribution of housework between women and men, ladies and gentlemen, mentioned again and again. All this is being embedded by you, Mr Federal Minister, in a very, very conservative policy, in which the creation of the men's department is actually just so much the score on the i. Not that such a department could actually make sense, such a men's department that could deal with how it could finally succeed that men actually meet their needs. There would be an incredible amount of work to do, to create awareness, to work again and again to actually implement this half-half. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But that doesn't do the men's department, Mr. Minister! On the contrary: This men's department – and this can also be read several times – understands its function quite differently. Our department represents progress in gender policy, says 40-year-old Berchtold, a strong fighter for the liberation of the man from the consequences of excessive emancipation. This is your man's policy, and it is really an expression, not only to women, but also to men in this society. That's to say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! I would also like to know how to stick to this issue, as you would like to see it when your men's department is in a very clear way and How to do nothing but a very specific lawyer, who, from Upper Austria, has now – as you can read – opened a branch in Vienna, so to speak, to mediate the business. I say to you that no body of a ministry is entitled to make clear recommendations in such a way. That's obscene, and you haven't prevented that up to now, and you didn't have to stop it. On the contrary: Mr. Berchtold as well as Mr. Lawyers do not say that they are very cooperative. It was about abortion. What are you doing, Minister? – They have printed brochures that have not been written out, which also deal with all the federal funding criteria in order to allow abortion opponents to communicate very, very cheaply. That's your self-understanding of your policy. They talked about the women's projects: Why don't you promote the women's magazine "An.schlagen" anymore? [[Abg. Wattaul: This is a Revolverblattl!]] Probably because she's too critical to you because she also says what you don't like to hear. On the other hand, our concept of democracy is to give women the opportunity to communicate in the media landscape. The opportunities for women are still limited enough. You, on the other hand, insist on zero, you are no longer giving support. On the other hand, you have a lot of money to order studies on how to actually estimate the divorce victim man. It is already incredible with which intention such a study is motivated, with too high maintenance services. What does that mean, Mr Minister? First of all, you are introducing measures to leave women at home, not just temporarily, but for a long time. If a partnership fails, it is of course true that one part, namely the one at home, of the female, also needs appropriate support from the other part, namely the male. And then these men come and complain that they pay too much support. And you support this very system. Instead of giving women the independence, an independence that would ultimately also bring men something, you do just the opposite. They include women like men in their own lives, Minister. I think one year's prime minister is enough. That is why I make the following request.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16587	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is sufficiently supported, is sufficiently relevant to the matter of negotiation and therefore also to the debate or the vote. The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16611	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I too would like to comment on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Prammer. I have already stressed several times from this point of view that women's policy matters are very often not put into laws and regulations. Much of what the SPÖ demands again today or what is required by the SPÖ simply cannot be ordered. To prescribe or prescribe abortion to all hospitals or doctors is simply a thing of impossibility, and that, I think, is even aware of you. They can't force anyone to do an abortion. I also very much doubt that women who want to stop pregnancy want to do so in their district hospital, where everyone knows each other. I think in this sensitive area we should maintain anonymity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: What is that supposed to mean?]] – In such hospitals everyone knows. I don't want you to have to drive off there. That means what could be done by law, we have long been doing. What you are calling for now makes it more difficult for the women concerned than easier. The same is true of the requirement that private companies should not disadvantage women. Even more stringent legislation will not produce much in this area. Incentives can reach much more. For example, if a small businessman experiences that every second woman becomes pregnant and falls out of school, he will still be trying to access men or prefer men, or he stands, especially if it's a small business, to have to lock up from the alternative, and that's what you can't want. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We should therefore make a common point in this area if we really want equal opportunities. At the same time, a huge rethinking must be required. Mrs. Prammer! Maybe you start with it personally and ask for a female operation next time, for example, when you go to the Café Landtmann. They will come back very, very quickly to the ground of reality. I would just like to say so much to the women's projects: In Burgenland, where I am particularly well aware of the situation, the current Minister of Women makes available the same amount for women's projects you have made available to Mrs Prammer. In the past, however, some projects have been given a women's policy touch to reach subsidies rather than subsidies. Unfortunately, it was very often about party politics and not about the concerns of women. They now come up with facts for which you have not found any solutions during your term of office. If you had fulfilled the demands placed on the table, we would have saved ourselves the women's people's desire and the taxpayers very, very much money.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16664	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16685	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Lentsch! At the beginning a brief comment on your remark regarding abortion and district hospitals, where everyone knows. [[Abg. Lens: Try it!]] Yes, Mrs. Lentsch, are you supposed to avoid in private sanatoriums that are extremely expensive? Do you even want to avoid the angel-makers? - Please, it can't be! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Nor can it be that Tyrolean women who are Vorarlberg have to take the long way to Vienna in order to have this demolition carried out, because that is quite a social barrier! That's what you're told. But to you, Mr Federal Minister, and to me, of course, I am fully involved with my group and with Mrs Mag. Prammer's motion of censure agreed and said: Yes, Federal Minister, we Socialists do not trust you, you and your men's policy in your men's department, in which you obviously think much more about how men in our country are being disadvantaged than how, for example, we could make substantial progress in improving childcare facilities and improving their opening hours for children in that country. However, as an Austrian woman, as a working woman, I also doubt you as a woman in a pedagogical profession and as a mother of a kindergarten child. Federal Minister! There are countless reasons to distrust you and your "principal" male policy. The demands of women's people's desire, especially the demand of item 7 – the right to reconcile work and children – are a very special concern for us and have always been in the past. Only for your information: Initial implementations on this point were driven forward in the years 1997 to 2000 with 1.2 billion schilling from federal funds. That was a success of our policy, a success of the policy of the then Minister of Women Barbara Prammer, and for that she still deserves due thanks today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These funds were, of course, doubled by the countries, and so we were able to make the success for ourselves that 32,188 childcare places were created in this period. And I'll tell you: Such a success It's hard for you to understand. You can certainly not understand the positive attitude of our group and of our women's minister to kindergartens, which are important educational institutions. Her incredible statement in the "Vienna" has already been quoted today. I would like to save us to do this again. However, in your remarks you have very well pointed out that the black sheep had been placed the pencil on the desk at 5 p.m. and then no longer cared for the children. Federal Minister! Despite all this, a professional group cannot be discredited for two or three black sheep! We're sorry, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this statement, of course, the staff representative of the Kindertagsheime of the city of Vienna also has a letter to you, dated 3. October, correspondingly responded. I read from it and I am very happy to inform all those present: "No nurse is supervising the children from her desk" and leaving them at 5 p.m. without taking care of the children", because – and that's what they do exactly: [[Abg. Auer: Even earlier?]] "If you have not yet been informed: Our day care homes offer flexible opening hours according to the needs of the parents. Even with the traffic jam you quoted, children stay well cared for and cared for until the parents come to pick them up." I am already very excited, Federal Minister, what you will reply to the staff representatives of the Children's Homes of the City of Vienna and whether you will accept the invitation to look at this excellent institution once from the inside and to convince yourself on site of the high-quality work being done there. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: An excuse is still out!]] Of course, an excuse is still to be made, because we have not really heard in your statement about this to all kindergarten pedagogists. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to stress once again that it is important for us – and this is what the Austrian children's friends have said in a corresponding resolution – to point out that childcare facilities are the first and most important educational facilities in our country. We are all very concerned about further development of these, and this should be supported by you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, all Austrians of your policy should also express distrust, because your basic objective is to meet the demands of modern families and family concepts that will still be defined. I therefore invite all Austrians to take a closer look at the "principal" male policy of the Minister of Women and to compare it with the successful women's policy of the SPÖ. This comparison, ladies and gentlemen, will make you sure!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16789	The next speaker is Mrs Burket. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16810	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to address Mrs Schasching's comments, because it seems that this has not been heard. The Minister has decided, clearly and clearly, that his statement on kindergartens and education has referred to something general, that he has not attacked persons, that he has also determined how honorable and responsible this activity is. [[Abg. May. Prammer: That's much worse then!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Awesome! Look out, you're talking into a vortex!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Ordinary Call!]] You have referred to the Minister that he is talking about the kindergartens – I am quite clear, Mr Cap! – I would not have said it, and I just wanted to say right that he said anyway that it was black sheep, nothing else. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You made it even worse!]] All right! In any case, I can say to your motion for a resolution 355/A (E) that the Ministry of Women, which you do not even exist, has done much more in these two years than you have done. If you take your last comment, you only have to look at the men's ministry or the new man's post in order to see how successful Your work has been, then you have to say that you already see things very wrong. If everything has been so wonderful, I wonder what you have created such a demand catalogue at all. What was the need for women's people's desire for such a successful women's policy? If your women's policy was so fantastic, I don't understand the meaning of the matter. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But since we know that, because society always and at all times changes, even in women's policy, changes are necessary, I must tell you: What separates us is simply an ideological abyss, over which we do not want to pass either. What you want and want to achieve is a division of the sexes, which leaves nothing to be desired for indifference at all. They do not show any effort! In all your demands, in everything you produce in writings, and in all your speeches, there is not a word of understanding for the term family, to which man and woman belong. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ: You never heard that?]] No, obviously not! You don't! They divide the sexes and think that they make a modern women's policy. This is a mistake, I can assure you. We are promoting where there is the greatest need, and where there is a need. If If you look at the figures already mentioned by the Minister, then if you are fair, you have to note that the budget available has remained as good as it is. We only distinguish that we use it much more targetedly, that we really promote where women are concerned as victims of violence, where family problems are concerned. Where the women are left alone, we are promoting. But your ultraleft and radical leaves that are brought out, these groups and groups, these newspapers, which unfortunately do not meet the criteria of importance. We still have your debt mountain to pay, we still have to deal with the budget responsibly. We are accountable to taxpayers, and we are making the policy of which we believe that she should intervene where there is a real need for help, namely for women and children, dear Mrs Prammer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16925	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16946	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It has been mentioned today that women's popular desire has been one of the most successful among the people's desires that have been carried out in this Republic. This popular desire reached well over 600,000 signatures. What are the initiators of this popular desire for? – Minister of State! The initiators have brought in this women's popular desire because they wanted to use it – I quote –: "To stop man from telling us what we want and what we do well." – That was the reason why this women’s popular desire was brought in. But what has happened in the last one and a half years? – A women's nightmare has unfortunately come true! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Weekly countries: The nightmare is you!]] There is a men's minister who pretends to represent women's agendas, and there is a department called VI/6, a so-called men's department. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I want your problems!]] That was given to us! Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast, point six of the original Women's People's Desire, which later became point seven: Every person has the right to reconcile work and children. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Your speech should be broadcast live on TV! That would be the best propaganda for this government!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, the legislator has to provide full-day qualified care facilities for children of all ages. Day mothers must be trained and safeguarded by labour law and social law. What do you have? But you made it? – You immediately removed the kindergarten billions! That was your first measure. However, all experts say, ladies and gentlemen, that a sufficient number of child care facilities are the guarantee that women and men can have children as they wish. There is a gap in this respect. Mrs Petrovic has also mentioned that there is a link to an increased birth rate, and this consists in the adequate provision of appropriate childcare facilities. That's an indicator. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Another connection – you may wonder more about it – is the employment of women: The higher the employment of women, the higher the birth rate. Norway, for example, has a birth rate of 1.87 and, at the same time, the highest female employment. – You should focus on this, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Forget the model German grips, where a child has been born in this year! Forget about the Khol main course, after which the brave grandmothers are to be brought out again! It's useless! Look at facts and facts! There is no longer any need for studies, but there is a different policy on women, which is now no longer being done! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Make childcare places available in sufficient number with appropriate opening hours! Work on the economy so that jobs can be adequately made available in a family-friendly manner! This, too, helps women and men to get the children they want, but they do not trust in the world, because of course they bear responsibility. [[Congratulations with SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Since when do men have children? It's new!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr Gaugg! You've already qualified today! Watch out for your calls! I'd like to tell you something about abortion: Whether you like it or not: The National Council is the Federal Legislator, and if a federal law is adopted here in the National Council, it must apply from Vorarlberg to Vienna and not end in Salzburg! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If the advice is given that women of Innsbruck, Bregenz or from other places where the way to Vienna should not be shy because of anonymity, then it is cynical! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr. Haupt! Since your time of government, since you are ministers - "Women's Minister" I don't want to say at all - the right to abortion is constantly being debated according to the deadline solution that has been in force in Austria for 25 years. I ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and really ask you to answer this question: How do you stand to resolve the deadline? What is the background to hearing over and over again that you want to discuss this? What are you doing? You have been silent in the committee. Tell the Austrians what you are planning in this context! We have a right to that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I recall the intention of women's people's desire. This intention is more up-to-date than ever before, "to stop man from telling us what we want and what's good for us". [[Abg. Weekly countries: Man doesn't look at you at all!]] For the above-mentioned reasons and with bowing to the initiators, proponents and the more than 600 000 signatorys of this women's people's desire, I would like to express my distrust to you, Mr Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17106	The next speaker is Mrs Achatz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17127	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Prammer! They want the implementation of women's people's desire. Please help me a little! I remember that there was a committee, namely the Equal Treatment Committee, in which the Freedom Party called for the implementation of the women's people's desire by means of a request. However, it was rejected. And I remember, Mrs Prammer – correct me if I am wrong! – that you personally and your whole group have rejected the demands of women’s people’s desire. Is that true, Mrs Prammer, yes or no? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: That's it?]] Mrs Prammer! You have rejected the Freedom Party's request for the implementation of the Women's People's Desire! I'm sorry, but Get out! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I also remind you, Mrs Prammer, that the Freedom Party has also made a request for an increase in the budget budget. You, Mrs Prammer, have rejected this request as a woman's minister. However, today You're a budget higher than ever before! In 2001, the women's budget is 67 million schilling. That never happened at your time, Mrs. Prammer! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to say something to you, Mrs Prammer: I also remember that there once was a state councillor in Upper Austria, who was the only woman in the state government and who refused to take over the women's affairs. She, Mrs. Prammer, wanted the women's affairs in Upper Austria to stay with a man, namely Dr. Aichinger. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of the Abg. May. Prammer) Shame!]] You have only become more brave in women's policy since you are no longer women's minister! Now you know how it is! Just like your colleague Edlinger, who now knows how to do financial policy! [[Complaints and intervocations with the liberals.]] You left a terrible heritage to women's policy, Mrs Prammer! The income-screze between husband and wife has changed dramatically during your age towards the wife, including in pensions: Women have an average pension of 9 800 S, men have 16 000 S. And you have left us a army of compensation recipients. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] You have failed, Mrs Prammer! You have personally failed, your party has failed, and someone else has failed, namely the trade unions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Scheuch: (in the direction of Abg. May. Prammer) We are expressing your distrust!]] But that's no wonder at a trade unionist named Csörgits! What did this woman do? – She doesn’t even know her own income! It knows the income increases only in about the range of ten thousand schilling! How should such a trade unionist really engage in women's affairs? They don't even care about these! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The enormous differences in income between men and women were not worth the trade union even in the original vote. Mrs Prammer! It would have been quite nice and a sign for women if at least one question had been addressed in the original vote to these dramatic differences in income between men and women! Where was your mission? You only talk here, but where you really should get a position, don't do it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I can tell you: The SPÖ is speaking, the Federal Government is acting! Three points, Mrs Prammer, which will contribute dramatically to the improvement of income for women: From 2002 onwards, there will be children's money for all, including the students and farmers you have never been interested in, because the latter are more women of second class for you. The limit of trust has been dramatically increased. The billing period for childhood education has been dramatically increased, and they are already pensionable. This is a milestone in women's policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is now an increase in fixed amounts and not just a percentage increase in pensions, so that the small pensioners are no longer fed with alms, while for example a new golf equipment for a Mr. Vrannitzky has gone out. I say something to Mrs Prammer and the whole SPÖ: Now the finish is coming up. This is the next measure that will benefit everyone, especially women. There is a right to discharge from the end of the probationary period and there is no loss of treatment claims in case of self-announcement. – Remember how many women work in the hospitality industry and how many trade workers there are who suffer from considerable difficulties with the large corporations and do not trust to quit because they then lose the claims for settlement! In view of this, I can say: This is a milestone in social policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! Thank you many times! I ask you to continue to work at this pace and with this commitment, especially for women!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17275	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Prammer to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17308	Just so on, gentlemen! Men's policy will continue in this House too. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mrs Achatz said so much that I cannot possibly correct everything in two minutes. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is not necessary either!]] That is why I will focus on two points. First: Mrs Achatz said that I would have rejected anything here in this House in one or more committees. – I would like to point out: I could not refuse anything because I was not a member of the National Council during the previous legislative period. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] Regardless of that, the women's desire has been supported in many ways from my side.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17353	Please take a little more rest!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17368	Secondly, I would like to say something about my national government activity in Upper Austria, although I have already put it correctly several times in this House and I fear that it will not be useful this time either. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Sit down! It's child-bearing!]] Mrs Achatz said I had rejected the women's resort. It is true, rather, that the Freedom Party under Achatz has proposed a deal to me, namely to give me the women's resort with 1.5 million budget year resources and to claim 6 billion Schilling housing support for itself. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I've been doing women's policy in building housing for two years.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17418	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17439	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! That is where the predecessor of the FPÖ actually has the head to mention the little pensioners! How far you have gone from the FPÖ and you, Mr Social Minister, away from the population and from the small people, you have proved to the urgent one today! Cold and heartless, you have denied the pensioners, the little people, the inflation penalty, and that at all the burdens and costs that there are in the health sector and that you feel to the population! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! You have finally played the trust of the population of Austria today! [[Congratulations and bravo call at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the basis of confidence between this Minister of State and Parliament is also disturbed and destroyed. For example, he is only staying in the Committee on Equal Treatment as a stupid guest, but following this discussion he says publicly that there is a legislative initiative in line with the ministers. And on the question of why he did not consult the committee, he says that he does not want to plunder everything! [[Abg. May. Trattner: Why do you leave the Court of Auditors Subcommittee?]] Federal Minister! Have you not noticed that you are also disavowing your own group, for example Mrs Haller, and the government group with which you are in a coalition? Ladies and gentlemen! What is it like in the control area, in the Court of Auditors' subcommittee? – Minister! There you are not even stupid guest! Time and again, as an informant, with the support of your party colleague Gaugg, you withdraw from the small investigation committee in connection with the scandals in the ministerial offices! . You do not discuss legislative initiatives with Members, do you refuse to inform Members in connection with their control, and that is why the National Council should trust you? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am now thinking of the constantly recurring phrases of the current Minister and of his current Members, whom he has expressed here on the essence of democracy and parliamentarianism. Ladies and gentlemen! The motion of censure Dr. Cap, Mag. Prammer and Dr. Herbs, however, go far beyond ignoring Parliament! What did you, Mr Federal Minister, actually do in one year of ministerial activity? What about the party financing of the RFW in connection with employment loan contracts? What is the case with the millions of sums that disappear uncontrolled into the pockets of ministers' secretaries? What about the ads, Mr Federal Minister, in which you claim smooth untruths at the expense of taxpayers? Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! What about the ads in which a parliamentary party is attacked frontally at the expense of taxpayers? And what about the proposal for a law, Mr Federal Minister, is it legal to ensure such methods? What about the orders made to FPÖ artists, such as Mr Rumpold, who freely granted you? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This list, that is unpleasant, Mr Haigermoser, I know, and it was allowed to continue at any rate. What did the FPÖ say before the election? – You will reduce taxes! That's where I ask you, Minister of State: What about the accident pension tax? – For example, you will deduct Mr Paul Richard from Heimendorf more than 6 000 S per month! The man lost a leg in an accident at work. And then you advertise: "More money for accident pensioners"? Federal Minister! They have betrayed and sold ten thousand people, and many, many regret deeply that they once gave the FPÖ their voice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What did Dr. Haider always say? – End the party book economy! Stop the business of friends! Of course, he never meant himself or the FPÖ! And what is the FPÖ Social Minister doing now? – If he needs an office chief again, he calls the RFW and says: Do you have anyone you can leave us by contract of employment? Of course you can keep a basket money! Or what about the ads in which smooth untruths are claimed? – They call on Mr Gernot Rumpold and tell him to bring about such an listing! Federal Minister! A FPÖ agency makes ads! The taxpayer pays them! Smooth untruths are being spread! You act against the opposition at the expense of taxpayers! Under these circumstances, is the National Council supposed to trust you? ==References====External links== October this maneuver devoured a sum of 900 000 s! There are 6 000 ambulance charges to be paid back! And now you're still trying to secure these state ads against the opposition by law? Ladies and gentlemen! Such methods are foreign to a democratic state! Is that not clear to you, Mr. Minister? Do you want to force self-administrative bodies to become handcuffs for these methods? Minister! The distrust of you is also justified by the immeasurable waste of money in your ministry. What about the more than 200 000 S for employees? Have you ever apologized, Mr. Social Minister? There were unexplained millions of rewards for artists! Mr. Minister, have you been accountable for this? It is known that there were more than half a million schillings for cabinet chiefs alone as extra gifts of money! Have you ever put the documents on the table? The head of the cabinet in the Ministry of Health also operates a medical practice. Have you ever been interested in this, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ? Mr Minister, with your resignation and the resignation of Mrs. Forstinger, the final proof would have been that FPÖ is not able to provide government-enabled personnel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] I remind you: Krüger, Sickl, Schmid, now head and Forstinger, and that in a year and a half! This is really a record of incompetence and failure! This is unique in the Second Republic! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The regrettable thing is that the damage is immensely great. There have been non-social laws, there are legislative proposals that are unthinkable in a European democracy, there has been a waste of money of all kinds and a decommissioned social and health policy. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Minister! Regardless of the vote on this motion for a reluctance, which, if I do not understand the calls correctly, will not find a majority, I appeal to you: Before you step back, get some information! How much did you pay Ms. Fabel to RFW? Who put more than half a million in office as chief of cabinets in just a few months? How Many Tax Fees Have Are you going to the FPÖ agency Rumpold? Minister! Take responsibility at least now! Put the numbers and facts on the table, bring them to the daylight, and make them You will then be free to pursue a just social policy and a human health policy for the people of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17540	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17561	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A request for distrust is under discussion, and that is why I have spoken. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The application must be given a majority!]] Mr Westenthaler! It's nice that you're commenting on this! A request for distrust is an important and indispensable instrument in the hands of the opposition, and it can also be a sharp instrument. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, if he's good!]] Such a motion of censure must be well justified, and I would like to deal with that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He has to get a majority!]] Yes, Mr Westenthaler, he must have a majority, you are right! But you can sometimes assume that arguments in this house count something, even if you may not count so much! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Westenthaler! In any case, I strive to bring the arguments that I bring to you – and not to you personally – in such a way that they can be understood, because only for mirror fighting I am not at your disposal! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important that a request for distrust is well justified. I was therefore disturbed by the public announcement of the request for distrust that the withdrawal of the Minister for Social Affairs was required because he was making non-social policy. – That's what I thought: In this context, what is the special concern of the Prime Minister? I am referring to this accusation against this Federal Government, but not specifically to the Prime Minister. Second point: I have been disturbed by the written statement of the motion for a reluctance, in particular by the last paragraph. I believe that the Federal Minister of the Interior has never been silent, that he has a health problem and that he will make his further stay in office dependent on how his state of health develops. In my opinion, this is an open, fair approach to this issue, even if it is not necessarily necessary. Of course, like many others, I have also heard that a decision on his health is likely to be due in autumn and that it may be expected that Minister Head will not continue his office. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] However, that the SPÖ's motion for distrust of this possible – I don't know, and perhaps it doesn't know yet – is mixed back with a withdrawal for political reasons for health reasons, I don't think that is fair. I think that is a problem, and that is because Minister Chief – and this is the last point I would like to make for Minister – in the time when he has acted as Minister, this has been done with a high level of personal commitment – as far as I know him. And it seems difficult for Members to stand up when a minister argues and speaks longer than the members of the committee. He did not always succeed, we know, in a committee we did it longer. But the fact that a minister is trying to explain his arguments, at least I do not feel negative. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Witchlands.]] Federal Minister! The point of criticism, therefore, is not these qualities, Mr Federal Minister, and neither has it been that until now, as the only one of the ministers in this area I have known – and that is already three or four – you have managed to make a regular Jour fixe with members of the opposition. That's not the point. In this context, I appreciate your commitment and quality! The point is actually to look where it becomes political and where your commitment at least to recognize for me that there is a politician – certainly washed with all the water – who knows the rules of the game in the house, but sometimes – and I now take the Causa Sallmutter as an example – still shows contours behind certain processes, from which it becomes visible that he does not agree with everything that has been demanded by the regulations. Minister Chief was at least very hesitant in the Causa Sallmutter, in the sense that he had difficulty in understanding what was obviously agreed at top level in the FPÖ – namely Mr Sallmutter as President of the main association with all means – to do so. He has repeatedly tried to find a level of conversation from himself, at least saying that he can talk to Mr. Sallmutter. That is why it was very surprising that this conversation bridge was, as it were, broken down and Mr. Haupt did the execution, which was predetermined. And it was quite obvious that he had difficulties finding him back to his positions. The point – which has already been addressed – at which Minister is the head of the attack lies not in his general, his human attitude to things, but in where he appears as an ideologist, where he appears with ideologically colored positions. This includes the men's department. If, in a ministry which has women's affairs to represent, and after the women's state secretariat has been dissolved in this form, women's affairs could have been particularly stressed by a government secretariat, and should have stressed that the answer is the establishment of a men's department, if the ministry's public relations were published over weeks and months, as if the men's affairs and the suffering of men were the more important thing to move and to determine politically, then there is an ideological correction that we do not support. If – however it has happened – advertising campaigns are made quite consciously and specifically propaganda, then this is a point that we already know from the past, even from old governments, which we have always criticized. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, it is not possible! If you want to say something about "Euroteam" and the way in which propaganda was pushed in connection with the apprenticeship offensive at that time, you must also criticize the Federal Minister, but of course also other ministries in this Federal Government. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is probably a qualitative difference!]] If you, ladies and gentlemen, do not want to see and see what it means to the Social Ministry in the 59. ASVG-Novelle is planning, namely, its own propaganda of the Ministry, also called information, to hang around the main association, while the main association with its own information is to be reported to the Ministry if you do not want to see the dimension of this company – and that has to be the responsibility of the Federal Minister of State – then we have a problem – with Mr. Minister Head, but also with you as government parties. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister Head executives in some areas – sometimes hesitant, but still brave – what the government parties do. I would like to give you an example: the ministerial offices. I do not want to mention the Causa Fabel and all that could be said about this, namely the relocation, shipping and delivery of persons who were partly employed in ministerial offices before the time of Mr. Main, with new posts – Mr. Berchtold would be an example of this – but it is about what the SPÖ has been talking about, and rightly said: Why does the Prime Minister not come to the Subcommittee to account for them? Mr. Main, our member of the Subcommittee, Mr. Kogler, as well as Minister Forstinger, said: I'd love to. Who is it that prevents him from doing so? - The government parties? Are they the ones that prevent him from doing so? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Witchlands.]] You say no, that's not the case, but you're voting against the requests. If that is the case, and Minister Chief can be hindered by this, then he is a weak minister. As a minister, who can and wants to give information openly and honestly, let me not be hindered by the members of my own government parties from defending myself that I am accountable. This is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, which you have to make up your mind between the government parties and Mr Minister, but it is a matter which concerns the Prime Minister, who makes him vulnerable and justifys a request for distrust. For these reasons – there are still some others to be mentioned, and some good reasons have also been mentioned by the SPÖ – we agree with the motion for a reluctance. [[Lively calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a weak argument!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I also say to you, to the address of the Social Democratic Party: If you make a request for distrust, we would like to see certain points in this motion of censure justified in such a way that we can also participate without having to justify why we have a bigger problem with certain points in your explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17706	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17727	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! What has been happening here today by my colleague, Ollinger, is about – I am now here in the House for 11 years – the lowest thing I have ever experienced here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is so incredibly deep – so incredibly deep I have said, not bad, so incredibly deep in your line of reasoning to try to damage a man who has acquired a very high level of competence here in the House for years as a social spokesperson and enjoys great reputation everywhere. [[Abg. Oils: Oh, shit?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Also ashamed of character!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The arbitrator still finds this funny!]] If you complain today – both colleague herbs and you – that...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17825	I call Mr Trattner.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17840	If you're here today in a way... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The oillinger is an ugly character!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: (in the direction of Abg. Ing. Westenthaler) That's a naughtiness!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: (in the direction of Abg. Ing. Wesenthaler!]] You can then speak, Mrs Petrovic. If you are out here today to complain that you have not received any information about certain things, I must tell you quite honestly: You are yourself responsible for this because you are not satisfied with your parliamentary duty to visit a committee or also to cooperate in a committee, but you wanted to leave the committee for populist reasons, only so that you can provide your press information externally, and you have not taken note of the relevant persons available in the committee. [[Abg. Oillingers: You didn't even watch!]] We have invited all the heads of office of all ministries. It was also the competent Federal Ministers, State Secretary Finz and Federal Minister Böhmdorfer, for information, but you did not at all want to receive more information from the Presidential Heads on raised issues relating to employment loan contracts and similar issues. You didn't realize this opportunity, but you just wanted to drive your political game, and this game was thanks to all of you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It would not have been the right thing to do in the Committee, because Mr Kogler did not want to leave the committee the last time, but he wanted to ask questions. But he thought I was going out of solidarity with the Socialists. This has been recognized by the way you have dealt with the Social Minister today, Mr Ollinger. It's unworthy of human beings! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: such a dirty thing!]] You have driven a game with his health, pressing on the tear gland. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: No, on the contrary!]] – Read your speech in the Minutes! – That was about the meanest – I say it, even if I should now receive a call for order – about the messiest thing I've ever heard here in the high house.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17979	Deputies! I don't think the whole situation is about us falling into a style that actually leads to an order call.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18010	What you have done here today, namely, a minister who is always ardent, has always been seeking and will always be striving to defame all the political parties here in the House, regardless of whether it is government parties or opposition parties to be involved in the decision-making process, in this way, that speaks for itself. They have disqualified themselves to a degree today, which is not like a comparison.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18041	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18088	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Mr Trattner has strengthened his perspective. I think he has, at least temporarily, got rid of you; in the longer term, I do not dare to predict. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A low level competition! Is it even deeper?]] Mr Oellinger has tried to make a balanced statement of how difficult he is at least to do, and some of our group have agreed to this motion for a reluctance at all. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] [[Abg. Achatz: Last-class!]] - That's one. Second: As you see the Committee, your problem, as the opposition sees it, can still be represented by itself. There is no point in saying that the necessary information would be provided without further delay, just as you represent it. The accusations here in the room are quite clear about the responsibility of the ministers – including at least – and we are very strange that the ministers in this committee cannot be invited to speak respectfully there or are not allowed to do so. We simply have the information from Prime Minister and Mrs Forstinger that they really want to say, but your political groups are preventing them from doing so. It is an absurd situation which does not at all do well to the House and the reputation of the House if ministers want to explain themselves in a competent committee, but are prevented by the majority. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You do not need to give us talks about the reputation of the house!]] This, of course, does not decompose the Minister – in this case Prime Minister – of course the responsibility to enforce himself in his group, because the spectacle does not seem to be comprehensible. Mr Oellinger referred to this situation, and if you lose sight of it, perhaps you should think of a change yourself.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18159	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now proceed to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of its 805 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to do so to give a corresponding sign.– I notice: That is the majority, and that is the reason why the request was accepted. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cap and Mr Comrades on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations pursuant to Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. Such a decision of the National Council shall be adopted in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of this Article. 2 of the cited constitutional provision requires the presence of half of the Members. I expressly note this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. [[Abg. Achatz: That's too little!]] – This is the minority, and this rejects the request. [[The representatives of the Freeman and the ÖVP rise from their seats and give a long-lasting welcome.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein congratulates the Federal Minister Mag. Head by hand.]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (601 of the Supplements): Convention (No. 182) on the prohibition and immediate measures to eliminate the worst forms of child labour; Recommendation (No. 190) on the prohibition and immediate measures to eliminate the worst forms of child labour (773 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18228	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Sophie Bauer has spoken. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18259	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As an employee, I am very glad that the Committee unanimously decided to take note of the recommendation and the agreement on the prohibition and immediate measures to eliminate the worst forms of work, namely child labour. Ladies and gentlemen! I was present at the International Textile/Leder Congress in Sweden in 2000, to which 350 delegates from all parts of the world had come. The delegates have shown in words and pictures what is happening all over the world in relation to child labour. In the thought of it alone, and when I recall the pictures, how those responsible in films and statements were presented by the various types of child labour, the goose skin continues to run over my back. It is terrible when four- and five-year-old children are tied with chains to the weaving chair to assist adults in working at the weaving chair by, for example, keeping a thread for four hours. After four hours they are allowed to take a little break, and for this time they are chained off. Your working day, however, lasts 12 to 16 hours. The images on which the large children's eyes in which helplessness is shown are terrifying, or on which eight-year-old and older children are seen who already have severe burns and disabilities due to their work in dyes and tantrums. Or: The International Labour Organisation shows what happens to those children who are trying to escape. They are burned off the soles of the feet, or they are blinded – as a dissuasive example for the other children. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, it is also noted that 80 percent of the world's 250 million children aged five to 14 who already have to work do their work without payment. But these children must work at least ten hours and often far more. There is no game for these children and no way to learn. Ladies and gentlemen! In Colombia, many minor children work in mines. They work at least ten hours and longer, they work in constant darkness, in black, sticky dust and in great heat. Therefore, many children of ten or twelve years of age are also invalid. But, ladies and gentlemen, even in the industrialized countries, a total of hundreds, thousands of children work for a hunger wage or only once a day to eat. There are companies in Austria that are trying to ensure that products that are purchased are not produced by children under 15 years of age. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Those companies that pay attention should be particularly positive. However, the products of those companies, which are proven to buy materials only from those countries in which they are manufactured by children under the age of 15 in order to be able to benefit them as a source of profit, would have to show more clearly the labelling of child labour. As examples I call carpets from Morocco, shoes from Naples, electric chips from backyard factories in Bangkok, orange juice from Brazil, fireworks from Thailand and so on. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I would ask you to use all the options available to prevent at least the worst forms of child labour.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18319	The next speaker is Mr Brugger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18340	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Eberharter!]] - I'm not responding to this call. I would suggest that we remain on the subject, which, I believe, is a very serious issue: the Convention against Worst Forms of Child Labour. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has a Convention of the International Labour Organisation IAO on Child Labour on Ratification and Recommendation No. In this case, the Commission has decided to refer the matter to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling. As a fivefold father-in-law and twofold grandfather, I am shocked by the figures that have been presented to me, and I would like to mention, for example, the one or the other number. It is documented that up to 250 million children under the age of 15 are used for child labour; For example, 15 million in Bangladesh, 44 million in India. The sad record holds Latin America with 60 million children. It is, as has been said, a shocking fact. But I believe that it is the honest goal of all of us in this House that the children worldwide are freed from slavery, prostitution, pornography and above all, also from the military service. For example, children's disadvantages are: no schooling possible, no further vocational training possible, health damage, slavery in households and in agriculture, but also exploitation, in the informal sector on the street. 59 States have so far ratified this unanimously adopted ILO Convention, including States which have not ratified any of the ILO's core conventions. Ladies and gentlemen! Although Austria, unlike some countries in the Third World, is not affected by the reported growth and crime of children, it is an obligation for us to ratify the Convention in the sense of global solidarity and humanity. I recall the Committee's report and I quote from it: "In the vote, it was unanimously decided to recommend to the House, to approve the conclusion of the present agreement and to take note of the recommendation." Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of action programmes and the establishment of a mechanism to monitor the implementation of the Convention fall within our competence. As a ratification state, we will take measures to prevent the use of children at work and to ensure that children are taken out and socially integrated and received free basic training. In this context, we attach great importance to international cooperation, the exchange of information on criminal offences and the investigation, persecution and registration of the perpetrators. Since the agreement has a legislative or legislative character, it requires approval by the National Council. It is not just the responsibility, but the duty of all political groups to feel that this sad chapter is a matter of course and, above all, a duty to make a contribution to this subject by consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18378	Next speaker is Mrs Gatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18399	Mr President. Minister! It is positive that, after the "disputes" – under quotations – and perhaps misunderstandings that have occurred during the last debates, now the Convention on the Prohibition and immediate measures to eliminate the worst forms of child labour here, I believe, is unanimously supported. It is positive that we sign and ratify this Convention and that it really will bring about measures for millions of children who have to carry out the worst forms of child labour, ranging from slavery and debt to prostitution and pornography or work in mines, with dangerous goods or chemicals, to the recruitment of children as child soldiers, as mentioned by my previous speakers. It is positive that we are really trying to take action and also to support those countries that have these major problems. It is true that, so far, 59 countries have ratified this ILO Convention, and I believe that the UN Convention, which we have already decided here in this House, must also be remembered. Article 32 standardises the child's right to be protected from economic exploitation and not to be used for work, to pose risks, to hinder the child's education or to harm its physical, mental, mental or social development, and we must guarantee that. When you look at the numbers – by colleague Bauer already very terrible examples have been described, as we see them again and again in rioting television series and documentary series – you can see that it concerns 100 to 250 million children under 15 years of age in this world who have to suffer this martyrdom. Moreover, these children are often not even paid. There are figures that 38 percent of working children are not rewarded at all because they are in debt or a similar situation. The ILO assumes that 20 to 30 percent of children worldwide between the sixth and the 15th. Lifetime work. At the same time – I think that is something to be stressed here – the rate of unemployed adults in the so-called developing countries is also 20 to 30 percent. I think this also shows a little bit of the negative spiral: The children go to work, they have no education, and because they have no education, they later get no work again as adults. In reality, this means that their children also need to be sent back to work in order to contribute to the maintenance in the families. We also know: The worse the working situation for parents, the more likely their children are to be forced to work to improve family income. Most children are also giving up school lessons, and I think we must do everything we can to ensure that the children get out of this negative spiral. It has also been said that there are many organisations that identify that no children have cooperated in the manufacture of their products. I would like to mention the names of some organizations, such as "Fair Trade", where one ensures that children are not drawn to the harvest, or "Bitter Orange". I believe that long-term success will only be achieved if, on the one hand, we are trying to do something at national level, but, on the other hand, we are, of course, also providing assistance to particularly affected countries in the field of development cooperation, by supporting them with projects. I myself have contributed to the report on child labour in the Council of Europe and have now prepared a report on the situation of young people in cities, and I know that there are more young people who need to work there too. In my opinion, we are making it too easy for us simply to demand that children no longer work, but we must start specific projects to ensure that parents find work, and we must also allow children to get out of work and get into school. We know many examples, however, where the children have been released, and then the majority of these children have been moved into even worse working positions, up to prostitution. They basically had a worse position than they had before. I believe that, if one is serious, one can only try to help all those in these countries with aid programmes for children and parents, and this agreement is a very important step towards eliminating the worst forms of child labour. I might like to underline this with the following sentence: We need to pay attention to children who work, but we need to consider child labour socially. And this agreement is an important step that we must support.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18461	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18482	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That's a slightly simpler subject than the last one. We agree in Parliament on this – and it was also in the Committee – that we disregard all the bad forms of child labour. It seems to be easy to do, because – and this was also reflected in Mr Brugger's contribution to the debate – this issue is thought to be somewhere else. That's true for the most part. Millions of children are forced not only to work but also to wage war. The places where this happens are mainly not in Europe, but in other countries. I only give you two examples, from today's "New Zurich Newspaper", so that you don't think it's so rare and belongs to the past. One of these two messages is: "Cakao is to be produced without child labour – agreements signed in Washington". The major chocolate industry associations, together with the International Labour Organisation, the American Development Assistance Authority and several non-governmental organizations, as well as representatives of the Ivory Coast Government, have signed an agreement. It is an important step that in this case American associations bring a country to reject child labour – Ivory Coast is known for it. This is an important step. But at the same time we see – and this is the second news, also from today's "New Zurich Newspaper": "No poverty reduction without growth"; small sub-chapter: Sanctions and child labour. The point is: Children's work is of course everywhere where there is extreme poverty. There is a direct link between poverty and child labour. If we want to disregard child labour, we have to give up poverty first, otherwise it won't work. It is not only child labour that can be denied and done as if there were no other framework conditions. This is the point, ladies and gentlemen, which I would also like to give to you for Austria. It is not true that we have always, at all times and until recently, done so easily with child labour. Of course, this was also a subject in Austria, of course, and there are forms of child labour here, although not the worst forms of child labour. I also know the times when in the country, of course, children after school not only had to work and work in the field, or sometimes also worked instead of school, but also had to participate in forms of home work because the family had to spend money. In other words, the relationship between child labour and poverty belongs to the subject matter in this context. We can be glad that we live in a somewhat rich country and no longer have these problems. But if we want to look seriously at the subject, then it is not possible to do so without presenting the issue of poverty and the remorse of poverty in this context.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18527	The next speaker is Mr Staffaneller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18549	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am also pleased that we, the groups here in the House, have an opinion on child labour. To my previous speaker, I would like to say: Yes, there was child labour in Austria not so long ago. When I think about the post-war period, I notice that many of us were affected. We must be on the hat that it will never come that way again. We have to work together here and be on the hat. Ladies and gentlemen! Better protection of children, the need for the free development and development of children and young people has always been a major concern of the Austrian Freedom Party. Every kind of oppression, compulsion and abuse of children is strictly rejected by us, yes it is not only rejected, but we demand and demand – and have always demanded – a rigorous punishment of the perpetrators and a corresponding care for the victims. This is a political matter for us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We therefore welcome the fact that the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation has agreed to the Convention No. 182 and Recommendation No. 190, two documents concerning the prohibition and immediate measures to eliminate the worst forms of child labour, adopted unanimously. The Austrian delegation to the ILO has already voted in favour of the adoption of the two documents. I would particularly like to stress that Austria would or would have lost credibility if it failed to ratify the Convention. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say a few words about the objective of this agreement. The aim is to ensure that all the ILO Member States undertake to recognise and help to free millions of children from slavery, debt, prostitution, pornography, dangerous work and forced recruitment for armed conflicts. There are press releases on this again and again, and we can track where this is happening – the previous speakers have already mentioned it – in those countries where there is great poverty on and on. We can help mainly if we help solve the problems there. We support this agreement just as we have supported the last agreements on the abolition of forced labour, on the equality of pay for male and female workers for equal work and on the minimum age of admission to employment, which is also in line with child labour. Ladies and gentlemen! It should be stressed in particular that the Convention covers all persons under the age of 18. ==References== This is a point that plays a particular role in EU enlargement, since we will have to pay particular attention to the fact that not much is happening on the labour market. If you are thinking about the difficult social situation in some of the candidate countries, it is noted that we will have to set up additional control mechanisms to prevent or not to import some bad forms of child labour in Austria. It has already been discussed in what form this takes place: It is up to prostitution to attract children to illicit activities such as trafficking in drugs and to dangerous, unscrupulous work. In accordance with the Convention, it must be our internal political task to put in place all necessary control measures, including criminal measures and forced measures, in order to protect particularly vulnerable children, especially girls, in the future. This too is provided for in the Convention. The existing workers in the labour inspectorate are likely to be too few if, in addition, they are to control the illegality of work in order to carry out these tasks. Mr. Federal Minister, there will be additional responsibility for you. The Convention also calls for increased mutual, international assistance and cooperation, which we naturally need, but which we also have to ask our neighbours to protect our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18609	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18630	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This issue would need a lot more words. I think some things have been said, I would like to repeat some. The way people treat their children is to reveal their future prospects. The civilized world must not accept that children are sent into prostitution, abused as soldiers, enslaved in debt slavery, deprived of their health and their future. Here again a few numbers that must wake us up: Some 2 million children have died in the last ten years as a result of armed conflicts, 6 million children have been seriously injured or will remain disabled forever, and some 300,000 children are currently involved in armed conflicts: as soldiers, as a supporter, as a client, but also as sex slaves. Children's soldiers are not only in distant Africa, Asia or Latin America, but also in Europe thousands of minors have participated in civil wars, for example in Kosovo. Let us hope that there will be nothing worse in other countries! [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] One important point I would also like to address is the sad fact that the sexual exploitation of children in connection with the phenomenon of sex tourism is constantly on the decline. However, child prostitution takes place not only at relevant destinations, such as those already mentioned, namely Thailand, Colombia and so on, but also directly on our doorstep. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever has read a certain daily newspaper today will also have read under the title "Dozens of girls forced to prostitution" that young girls are lured into Austria under false promises. Here I would like to point out that in addition to the sanctions of new strategies and ways of not leading young girls into this economic dependence and giving them real future prospects when they believe that something in the "golden West" has to be brought. In this context, for example, I am thinking specifically of networking between Germany, Austria and the Czech Republic. I am grateful for the fact that there have already been talks about this with CDU and CSU delegates who were back in Styria on the last weekend. There, too, the issue was raised that there are increasingly terrifying cases of child prostitution in the border area of Bavaria, the Czech Republic and Austria. In order to use this terrible word, we need to focus on this, here, Austrians, in all parties, both in the government and in the opposition. Austria has expressed its solidarity with other UN Member States and has contributed significantly to ensuring that fundamental fundamental rights of children are respected in other regions as well. We also have a lot to do here in our country – I have already mentioned this example – with partners in other countries. The children of today are the citizens of tomorrow who can make the world more viable – provided that they are given the opportunity to have a normal childhood. I am grateful for the fact that all political groups will agree to this ratification.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18682	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18703	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Child labour is forbidden almost everywhere in the world – yet it is a mass phenomenon. According to UN, there are 300 million children under 15 years of age worldwide who work regularly, but no one knows these figures exactly because child labour is invisible. There are no appointments, there are no pay lists, there is no health insurance, there is much in these countries that is of course with us, and that is ultimately the problem. In Austria, child labor takes place in the sense that it is the subject of this Convention, and thank God. I think we can be proud of our standards that we actually have in relation to child protection and youth protection. Nevertheless, it is important and right to ratify this agreement as quickly as possible, because we have always made ourselves strong for the rights of children in the world from Austria, so that this ratification is a matter of credibility in the sense of this Austrian entry. We have no problems with this ratification, of course, because we already have rules in different jurisdictions that go far beyond what is required in this Convention. However, I admit that there are cases of child abuse again and again, directly or indirectly, in the country or also through sex tourism, which we have been able to punish together in the criminal code in recent years. We have thus expressed that we simply do not tolerate these activities – whether they are carried out in Austria or abroad by Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! Our joint efforts must also aim to strengthen international cooperation in this area and simply implement what is required in Article 8 of this Convention. Countries must help each other to implement the provisions of this Convention. I mean, Austria can make a very valuable contribution here.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18747	There is no further statement of words to this effect. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the Committee's request to approve the conclusion of the Convention in 601 of the Supplements. The quorum is given, so I shall vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for an appropriate sign. – The Convention was unanimously approved. I am voting on the Committee's request that this Convention be adopted within the meaning of Article 50(1). 2 B-VG is to be fulfilled by passing laws. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give them their approval to give a sign in this regard. – This request was also adopted unanimously. We shall also vote on the Committee's request, Recommendation No. See Annex 601. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign on this point. – This too has been unanimously decided. That is what we have done with this item on the agenda. 12. Point Report by the Economic and Social Committee on Amendment No 519/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Puttinger, Helmut Haigermoserand comrades concerning a federal law amending the Youth Training Security Act (794 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18818	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18842	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Youth studies confirm that for Austrian young people the concept of "security" is very important: on the one hand, safety regarding one's own life, on the other hand safety regarding school or work. Security was also one of the main topics of today's day. Many young people, however, are really insecure about finding a job or a job. Federal Minister Bartenstein! They say it's unfair that the government wants to leave thousands of apprentices on the street. . I am right to say that your measures on the Youth Training Security Act, which are to be adopted here today and are, of course, also carried by us, only 800 young people are taken away from the street. There will still be more than 3,000 young people outside. They are waiting for an apprenticeship, and they are waiting for their right to education – the Convention on Child Rights has been addressed here today – to be taken seriously. Federal Minister! The figures I am addressing are not figures I have invented, but they are figures of the labour market service. I don't like them; don't you like them? – These 100 million schillings, which are to be decided today, sound more like alms to be distributed here. We need to create sufficient legal bases for the continuation of apprenticeship foundations and courses. That's not 100 million, but that would be 500 million schilling. When I look at the request of Puttinger, Haigermoser and comrades, I see that these 100 million schillings are too few, as I have already said. Furthermore, this request states that appropriate participation of the federal states is required. However, there is no agreement as to whether and to what extent the countries will make funds available. Nor are the national project groups involved, Mr. Minister. They also did not provide for a specific number of training places in this initiative. The scheme will enter into force by mid-November. That is too late in our view. Foundations are missing at all in this initiative proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that young people who have not completed compulsory education in the course of a course are unable to start training, because there are only the courses. Federal Minister! They said in the Committee on Economic Affairs that the number of apprenticeships had hardly changed in 2001 – although the number of job seekers increased by 14.7 percent compared to the previous year. I don't know how your calculations of how little this has changed. Federal Minister! Since February 2001, you and the Federal Ministry have been alerted by the Chamber of Labour and other institutions to the fact that a really significant shortage of training places can be expected for summer and autumn 2001. Now the reaction comes, but it comes very late, it is delayed, it comes too late. These 100 million schilling measures are not enough – we all know – to fulfil this right for all young people seeking employment. This is actually something that you have to do, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that within the Federal Government there is a little too little talk about the situation or how it all came about. These shortcomings, which also exist in education policy, naturally affect the labour market and the teaching situation. The Federal Government's budget for education has been frozen as of 1999. We know that there are far too few training places at vocational colleges and at vocational schools, where many thousands of young people have to be rejected. Their educational needs are re-directed to secondary and third-party schools. But it may not be that the people are in a training they don't want at all. More than 50 percent of young people are unhappy with the choice of training they have taken, because there are no other possibilities. In answer to all these questions, only a "overbridge million" is now in the room. Of course, the following will happen: The labour market will not change in such a way that it becomes more manageable. This will not take effect, because of significantly lower growth forecasts – we have heard from economic researchers several times – and because of recognizable fractures in the dual vocational training system. You have to think about it, ladies and gentlemen. They do not invest in the solution, but in the extension run g of this problem! On the other hand, we are seeking a solution. That is why there will be an amendment by us, because we believe that no one should be on the street, just as the 1997 and the Youth Education Security Act 1998 was started and actually achieved. We know that young people define the term "security" especially in the sense of social and labour security. If you say with your request A, you should also say B and really live professional training.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18922	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18944	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have heard from the committee, and all the years I have been working here in the House, it has always been like this: When it comes to vocational training and the dual vocational training system in Austria, all the political groups in this House have agreed that the dual training system is one of the best and we should stick to it. Nevertheless, there have been certain signs of abuse over time. If today's complaint is that there are less open apprenticeships, I must say that it would also be better for me if there were more open teaching places. We also have fewer and fewer young people. At present, the open apprenticeships are superior, but this Federal Government is committed to creating and maintaining a training place for all young people. I believe that it is also on the best track, because the Youth Training Security Act is now, according to this proposal, nothing but an extension of the measures that have been successful in improving the employment opportunities of young people in recent years for the next training course, i.e. for the course of 2001/2002, especially those federal states in which there is a particular imbalance in the labour market. The aim is to complement classical training by increasing the focus on training in the field of new technologies. It is now new to the former that the distribution of the financial resources provided by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour is not carried out by the Federal Minister himself, but by the national labour market service with the respective federal state, each half co-financed by the countries, is now to be achieved by pooling all appropriate measures to integrate young people into the labour market. It's new now. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, because you complain that nothing has been agreed here, I would like to say to you: Of course, the federal states in which there is a great imbalance must also strive for "their" young people to receive training in these federal states, and they must also do something to help them. That is, of course, the prerequisite! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: The potential should first be exploited!]] Mrs. Colleague! Half a year ago, it was said in Austria that we had too few key workers, an IT focus was asked, and so on. – Today we often have the situation that such people are already being terminated. The market is reacting faster and faster. We all know that in rural areas there is much more difficult to find than in conurbation centres. But, as you have already mentioned, this request from our colleagues Haigermoser and Puttinger provides for 100 million schilling to be provided for new projects in the course year 2001/2002, especially those countries in which there is an unfavourable development in this regard and in which there are some gaps in the number of apprenticeships in comparison with the number of apprenticeships. But in addition, Mrs Colleague, that has already been said in the Committee, 500 million schillings are still budgeted for those young people who do not find a job. This also includes those – that is about 400 million Schilling – who are still housed in foundations today. These foundations are, as it were, also provided. They are now running out, but the young people who are in these foundations will complete their training. We believe that courses towards foundations are the better way, and we will stick to them. [[Abg. Silhavy: But if the apprenticeships are not there, Mr Dolinschek!]] - Please, what's not there? [[Abg. Silhavy: If the courses are not offered by the economy!]] This is the next step, Mrs Colleague – thank you for this objection. Of course, the economy will also be required to ensure training for young people. That's the next step. But we are now helping young people to get over the courses so that they can find a teaching place in the economy more easily. The courses are only the beginning. That's the better way. Mrs Colleague, we are always right and welcome improvements when they are being made.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19017	I call Mr Puttinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19038	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The present amendment to the Youth Training Security Act is, in formal terms, only a relatively small change, but it is of great importance to our young people. It is, as you know, the essential improvement of the opportunities of our young people in the labour market. The SPÖ has also recognized this very well. In her minority report on the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, she quoted the President of the Steiermark Chamber of Commerce as saying: We can only keep our prosperity if we do everything we can to improve the qualifications and thus the career opportunities of our children. - Quote. Mrs. Silhavy! I come back to your remarks now, because you always call numbers that are not correct. . In August 2001 we had an increase in job-seekers compared to 2000. However, the figures from September 2001 showed a happy result again, namely that the number of job seekers was lower than in 2000, admittedly only by 28 but at least lower. And if the number of open apprenticeships has increased by 477, this is at least an increase of 14 percent. Mrs Silhavy, you should take note of this at the end of the day! [[Abg. Silhavy: But that does not benefit the young people who have no place!]] – I'm still coming! I think you can only work with correct figures in a reasonable and correct policy. In its minority report, SPÖ has identified and documented a negative number of job seekers too high and terrifyingly. – I say to you: You know very well that this figure results from the fact that, among the actual job seekers, the unemployment benefit providers were counted to include the young people from the reception networks and those young people who are in training, i.e. all those who are not immediately available. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Wait a little! Can I still talk? This presentation of the apprenticeship situation is incorrect! You know very well that in this way there are also very many double countings, for example in connection with the training measures. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's not true!]] In addition, the counting of the youth unemployment benefit providers and those already in the catch-up network is also a double counting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I'll give you the right to: If the unemployed young people are not interested in an apprenticeship, they are only counted once – but at the moment when unemployed young people strive for a apprenticeship, they are double counted. You know that very well! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: They suggest to the young people that they do not want to work!]] Ladies from the SPÖ! The same applies to the SPÖ's claim of 4,000 places in a catch-up network. You know very well that the scope of this network is 1998 figures! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: These are statistics!]] At that time, this gap was really 4,000. Today, however, we only have 1 300, and this is known to be at most one third of it. Nevertheless, you again demand 4,000 jobs. That's scared, that's panic. That's misinformation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's fact!]] We reject such a policy from the government parties! Rather, we will continue the positive initiatives set out by the Youth Training Act in recent years, particularly in those federal states where there is a particular imbalance in the labour market. These measures will be carried out by the labour market service with the participation of the respective federal state. Now a few words on youth unemployment: We can be proud of it – but don't tell you in public! – that Austria has the second lowest youth unemployment rate after the Netherlands. The last available figure is from August of this year. And you know very well that all that we have now discussed is only part of the NAP! You know very well that we have new teaching professions, that we have tax benefits and that we have introduced the teaching. All these measures are, of course, primarily geared towards the provision of a rule doctrine. They're supposed to improve the dual training system at the end of the day, but don't replace it! I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you have not forgotten that there are also numerous other measures taken by the AMS. In this context, I am thinking, for example, of the promotion of apprenticeships, of aid for the promotion of training conditions under the BAG, of the special programme for the promotion of additional apprenticeships in apprenticeships, of youth specific measures of the AMS on vocational orientation, qualification and employment. – All these additional measures can only work together! I welcome the present amendment to this law and hope that many young people who have not yet been taught can be helped! We are convinced that the financial framework will be sufficient. If the costs, as you see in your minority report, were actually 12 000 s per participant per month, that would be a waste of resources for us. – However, we are convinced that we do not need 12 000 S per person per month to achieve something! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We will send you all young people who have not been taught!]] We are convinced that with this innovation we can help all those young people who do not yet have a teaching contract and thus give them a new opportunity.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19186	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19215	Mr President. Minister! A youth and employment policy debate is no longer appropriate, as I believe, now. I'm just saying two sentences. We discussed it in the Committee: The proposal now put into a law is certainly better than nothing. However, we believe that some improvement could take place, and this view, in turn, is in line with the SPÖ's amendment. That is why we will give both our final approval. I would like to remind you now, and I hope that the next item on the agenda will be at least as slow as this, because it has only been agreed on at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19248	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19270	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Puttinger, I'm sorry that you... [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You don't have to regret me!]] I do not regret you, but I regret that you are now adding to this topic points of which we all know that they are grasping, and that we are all happy about! In my opinion, the discussion in the Committee has clearly shown that we all support the fact that something is being done for young people seeking employment. We have not simply quoted the President of the Steiermark Chamber of Commerce, because it is also our conviction that the right path is being taken, and I am glad that the President of the Court of Economics of the Styria has also made himself known in an official issue. Mr Puttinger! There are differing views, first of all, on the question of the quality of training. Secondly, Mr Puttinger, the figures and facts of the AMS Austria – even if you now judge other figures differently – clearly show that it is at the age of 30. In September 7,494 young teachers, but only 3,888, gave teaching places, thus nearly 4,000 more teaching - jobs-seeking young people. That's much more than you mentioned earlier! And that's why I think that if we speak honestly on this issue – and we hope so! – nothing beautiful, but should keep us on official figures and statistics. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You compare two years!]] Mr Puttinger, we are really serious about this. We're talking about the school year we just got. We know about the measures that are being carried on, and we are also pleased about that. A sudden termination of the catch-up networks would be a disaster for young people in these catch-up networks. And as Salzburger, you know this very well: Mr Buchinger of the AMS told you that the teaching would not be accepted. – Thank God she will not be accepted, because this is a narrow-track training and has nothing to do with the quality of training that the President of the Styria Chamber of Commerce has spoken about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I know that we ourselves decided to a lesser extent at the time, but we will be able to learn about it at the end of the day! Lifelong learning has been announced, and this should not stop before Members, Mr President. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] I think we have dealt with this issue in a very detailed way in the Committee. The Federal Minister has promised us, in the case of a three-party agreement on improving the present application, to ensure that the corresponding cover is available. I have taken this opportunity to write to the social speakers, in particular the government groups, and to ask them to announce an appointment so that we can conduct further negotiations. Unfortunately, the reaction was null! There has not even been a call in this respect. I'm sorry! I mean, our youth should be worth our negotiations! I would now like to address the question of the quality of training. – You know exactly as well as I do – and as likely all who deal with this issue – that courses are not the same as foundations and that young people in foundations really have the opportunity to get a quality training. I am deeply sorry that these Stiftung measures will no longer be continued. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Mr Mitterlehner, I do not consider the excuse to say: The young people are to be trained in the farm! If the establishments actually offer appropriate training places, it would be wonderful – and then we would not need these reception networks. That's fact. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, as such discussions have not taken place, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! All of them are committed to the quality of training, lifelong learning and to the need to have highly trained, skilled professionals in Austria in the future so that we can secure the economic location here. – If you really represent this opinion, then give the youth a fair chance!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19435	The amendment just read is sufficiently supported, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is therefore under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19459	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! All the political groups in the House and this government – and the previous ones as well – have come to know that any youth unemployment in our country is very determined to oppose and that, in the sense of a net, a corresponding alternative is offered to those young people who are looking for an apprenticeship and find none. This has worked well in the past, and it will work well in the future. In this sense, I would like to thank the House for extending the Youth Education Security Act in response to the surprisingly negative development of growth and thus the labour market by means of an initiative proposal. I also place a high degree of conformity with the quality and objectives of training. However, I am referring to certain differences that I would like to address, namely, the question of whether foundations need to be able to train apprentices, if there is no training place, alternatively, or whether courses are the better way to prepare the placement to a fixed apprenticeship, and I would also like to address these "number games" which are a little surprise to me tonight. First of all: Austria's economy and its entrepreneurs are to be thanked for the fact that more teaching contracts have been concluded recently. 42 percent of young people in a year start a dual vocational training, a teaching. The figures for 2001 also show a slight increase following a significant improvement in 2000. It is therefore quite possible that at the end of this year we will again have a small plus with regard to the number of contracts concluded. – I thank the economy for this initiative! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is known that my group in the past has also brought along the model of the foundations. However, an evaluation has shown that courses are all more efficient. In addition, particularly close to the public, very large companies have also used foundations – I do not want to talk about "misuse" now – to rescind the apprenticeship training of the general public, to sort of socialize them. We don't want that! We want dual vocational training, which takes place on the one hand in the company, on the other hand in the vocational school. We don't want socialization in the sense of foundations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the difference in figures: There is more of the courses offered at the given time. In this regard, I would like to complement my colleagues Puttinger – apart from agreeing to you in everything –: There is more and not less of the reported open teaching places. However, there is also a greater number of seekers; that is right. I would now like to refer to the figures from mid-October. Mrs Silhavy, I do not know if there are two AMS in our country! My numbers are also from the AMS, and I assure you: Both the AMS and the officials of my house proceed according to the exact same criteria, as was the case with my very appreciated predecessor Lore Hostash. And the figures from mid-October say that there are plus 461 teaching places seeking apprenticeships, but also plus 362 reported apprenticeships, and that the so-called andrangs, i.e. the number of job seekers per job open position, is even better than in the previous year, with 1.47 even by 0.03. This means an apprenticeship gap of 1 470, if you do your little crampy and inappropriate double counting tests a little. And my house estimates that this number will be 1 300 by the end of October. If I look at the Committee's minority report, I can see that you yourself have similar figures. Ladies and gentlemen Silhavy, you yourself speak of an increase in open apprenticeships in the annual comparison of no less than 477, i.e. of plus 14 percent. On the basis of your data at the end of September, you will arrive at a minimum of 28. So your numbers look relatively better! In view of this, I assume that the budget resources still available of around 100 million schillings should be sufficient to accommodate all young people in courses. This is more than just a alms; you can assume – apart from the fact that the countries were aware of their responsibility in the past and are certainly aware of their responsibility today that they have not only to participate but also to pay. We hope and have reason to believe that there can be a 50:50 division. You are right: There are no written binding agreements. There was no such thing in the past, but the cooperation still worked. I therefore believe that the extension of this Youth Education Security Act is an effective measure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, the budget resources available and also the relevant In-Force-Tretens-Date with 15. It's always been November. This has been the case in recent years, when you were still responsible for government by SPÖ. [[Abg. Silhavy: There were other instruments!]] This is in line with the not pleasant challenge that we must face, however, to make available to all young people in our country who are looking for a teaching centre this autumn, but who find none, a corresponding alternative in the sense of courses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19528	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19549	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The numbers are on the table. Federal Minister Bartenstein and colleagues Puttinger and Dolinschek have already said essential things. However, the statements by the Socialists in particular cause me to see a certain direction in the debate. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Was that it?]] Of course, it is a direction discussion when the reform coalition offensively confesses itself to modernity and to dual training – and not to the old hat of foundations! This is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, and we are happy to have this direction discussion. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course – which has already been carried out several times – courses as a accompanying measure for those who could not accommodate are a suitable model for closing gaps. But since you have already spoken of credible politics, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, Mrs Silhavy, I would like to remind you of the past, not the long past, but the recent past. [[Abg. You've been talking about the past ever since I knew you!]] The money you have put in the sand in connection with "Euroteam" we would like now, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] A certain Mr Jarolim was also working on the front line when he powdered a three-digit million amount with zero results. – But now he pretends to be not at all with regard to apprenticeship training at the time! That's really strong tobak! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You have nothing to say about apprenticeship training, as long as you have not done the damage well. There are more than enough: "Euroteam", Jarolim and so on! I now have to ask the President: Is "thinking on the plug" suspect? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I hope not! Then I'll just say it after I get no answer: You've got dirt on what's happening to Euroteam!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19612	Mr Haigermoser, I give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19630	I take note of this, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In any case, the fact is that you have powdered a three-digit million amount from the SPÖ. The numbers are on the table! However, I am now also referring to the willingness of the countries to contribute to addressing the problem. – The red Vienna has – you hear and marvel! – the worst numbers. 4.7 In-service jobseekers come here on average to an open teaching post. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Now, the red Vienna and Mr. Häupl can show whether they are willing to contribute to this 100 million schilling as well as to do something for those job seekers who have not yet been able to accommodate! In Salzburg, for example, there are quite different conditions: You're looking for apprentices like a bite of bread. There's something going on. [[Abg. Leikam: Your speech is up to me!]] The fact that you know from the SPÖ, knowing what excellent training entrepreneurs are doing in this country, is constantly pouring them over and over again in connection with apprenticeship training! We have recently brought home four gold medals from the Profession olympiade in Seoul. That is why I give the apprentices and the training companies a fourfold high! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The entrepreneurs certainly did not need social democracy to do this! You make the dual training bad from the SPÖ and always call according to the old Marxist method according to the state! Ladies and gentlemen! We are of the opinion that: Offensive, dual training with the enterprises with assistance, but no foundations and no "Euroteam". They only cost money, and things around Jarolim and "Euroteam" were moving on the brink of fraud!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19712	The next speaker is Mrs Pecher. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19734	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The future of the competitiveness of the Austrian economy is increasingly dependent on well-qualified employees. The politicians know that, but much more is known by the companies themselves. This is why companies are investing massively in continuing training: This begins with the investment in apprenticeship training, and this is about continuing training in the company itself or through the financing of courses or evening schooling, as well as expenditure on high-school courses for staff and postgraduate management training of managers. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian economy invests an estimated 15 billion schilling each year in the continuing training of its employees. Of course, one must also be able to afford the further training of its employees, but the fact is that successful companies know that high investments in continuing training in turn mean success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As an example, I would like to mention the related expenditure of a large and well-known Austrian electronics company based in Vienna: This invests 85 million schilling annually in continuing training and operates its own training centre. Apprenticeship training is a relatively small amount, but 10 million schillings are being invested in apprenticeship training each year – and I mean, that's really remarkable! The dual training system in Austria is a successful model. We are admired and envied by many other European countries, and this model is, as it were, also being decapitated. Austria is still very good in terms of unemployment on the European average: In the EU, youth unemployment averaged 14.9% in August 2001, only 5.9% in Austria, and thus we are the second best in the EU ranking. It has already been said that both the number of apprenticeships reported has increased by about 12 percent, but also the number of job seekers, and that the quota is virtually unchanged. In my opinion, if the number of 1,500 teaching places that cannot be covered immediately is 100 million schilling, especially if it is co-financed by the countries, it is very considerable. At 6 000 S or 7 000 S per apprenticeship per month, it would be necessary to make good use of continuing training measures to look for and match proper economic training models, and I am sure that the AMS, to which this amount will be made available, will proceed accordingly. I am pleased that all parties will agree to this request, but above all I am pleased that the government is discussing the question of the training allowance, which, in my opinion, is a very interesting model similar to the investment allowance, which not only, as before, supports investment in machines but also investments in people. I believe that this will lead to an important step towards better qualified employees and higher value added, thus investing in the security of the Austrian economic location.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19791	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19812	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Haigermoser has left the hall. I would have liked to tell him that the money that the government has put into the propaganda of the last weeks and months is already moving our calculations in the area of 500 million schilling. If you use this for apprenticeship training, we were fine and we really had no problem! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In a second comment, Member Haigermoser pointed out that the red Vienna was a bad example. – To this end, I would like to say: It is difficult to discuss on such a basis! Mr Haigermoser and the ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party know very well that in Vienna very many non-Wieners enjoy an education and very many Lower Austrian and Burgenländer have a teaching place in Vienna. In view of this, when you make a relationship with the courses offered, you can see that it looks very good for Vienna, at least as good as for Salzburg. You should say that fairly, too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This afternoon we discussed the problem of the seniors, the financial situation of the seniors. – Bad times for seniors! In the evening we discussed the situation of women and women's policy in our country. – Bad times for women! And we are now discussing the problems of youth at night. I'd say, A not much better situation for young people! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Mr Mitterlehner – thank you very much for the call, Mr Deputies, as if we had made this up – said in the committee that any over-company measure is over the market. These were your words; you certainly stand by them. – I think it’s better if we have over-companying measures, with the help of which one tries to offer skills, even if one – I even admit – maybe learns a little bit from the market. This is still better for me than young people are standing on the street and have no education at all. That, I think, is important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the subject of quality two comments: Last week, a survey with a member of the government on the future of occupations/quality of occupations took place in the Längenfeldgasse vocational school. They were Mrs. State Secretary Rossmann and a representative of the Chamber of Commerce, the head of the tourism section of the Chamber of Commerce, who sat there on the podium. It didn't last long, one, two, three, and then four young people got up there and said they didn't learn anything at all during the lesson period. They're already in the second year of class, but they don't have any education at all, they're just sitting at the cash register. One has even said that his average working time is up to 16 hours. – The "answer" of the Tourist Trade Union leader and the Secretary of State was: open mouth, astonishment and no answer! This situation also shows how to deal with young people. Incidentally, I was present at this event and can report it, and I can only ask that the quality of the Chamber of Commerce and also of those who are always working for the apprentices, namely the Freedom Party, be accepted in appropriate form and also find words and answers when young people turn to you in order to complain to you. – As far as quality is concerned. [[Abg. Böhacker: 16 hours are illegal!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are currently more job seekers and too few teaching places in us. This has already been said; I don't want to deal with the numbers at all, but just say: There are fewer apprenticeships, too few apprenticeships, and this despite reductions, despite the tax advantages for businesses, despite the practical conditions that have been created, despite new apprenticeships, in spite of tax exemptions and also a massive advertising of the Chamber of Commerce for new apprenticeships and new occupations. You know the prospectus I have in front of me, Mr Mitterlehner. [[The speaker holds a document with the title "St@rt up" in height.]] That's in your house, too, at the porter, you can get him there. It lists how cheap the teaching centre is today. In this brochure, the Schilling is exactly that apprenticeship training is calculated again today – but we have the problem that there are still too few apprenticeships. Therefore, a slight accusation to the economy. All of this has been visible, all the reductions have been of no use, for otherwise we would not have this discussion, otherwise we could make ourselves here and say: We solved the problem! We're world champions again, European champions! All the boys with us have a teaching position! We don't need foundations, we don't need courses, nothing at all! The economy shows that the dual system works! However, what we now have is that the dual system works very well in many areas, but there are areas in which the quality is flawed and in which overall supply and demand the system unfortunately does not work. That is why we want more money to be made available. That is what we want, Mr Bartenstein, is what you yourself said on 26 March. September here from the government bank – I quote from your contribution – said: "...and we also want to spend 500 million schilling annually – and today an initiative proposal for the Youth Training Security Act will be submitted for the apprentices of this country, for the young people who need apprenticeships." And our request is exactly that: 500 million schillings a year for these reception measures. So we are full of you and of what you said at the time, namely literally "annual" – but clearly we are now discussing a proposal that only 100 million schilling are planned. Ladies and gentlemen! We Social Democrats do not want even a 15-year-old youth to be on the street without a training offer. That is why we are discussing this subject very passionately, sometimes also very emotionalally, but with the necessary emphasis, and we will measure you by your actions.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19897	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19918	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is true when Mr Riepl says that it is not about us being the world champions, it is not about being European champions, but I note that we are the Vice-European champions of youth unemployment. What I've found good in this discussion – that's what I'm going to do You have not heard –: On the side of the government groups, the international positioning of this European position has never made it a problem if young people do not have a job. That they find a job is to be compensated, so to speak, with the extension of this Youth Education Security Act. Funding will be made available, co-financed by countries to give young people a chance to find an apprenticeship, a suitable apprenticeship. The allocation or allocation of funds will not take place through the Federal Ministry of Labour and Economy, but through the AMS countries, co-financed by the countries. It is certainly important that the funds are used efficiently. It is also important that, once there are misdevelopments when starting new projects, they are recognized and immediately a change is made, which has already been the case in the past. It is certainly good that the socialist model is not being worn; I mean the socialist model of the past, this "Euroteam" thing, where 118 million schilling, ladies and gentlemen, were used without proof of use. And if I have it right in my head, six or seven teaching places have been taught. – It is therefore not always associated with priestly blessing when a priest is present, especially in the case of the Lord's President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not share Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's view that there is a possibility of talking about alms. – The Federal Government will certainly not create jobs; the Federal Government can only act as a supporter – but jobs are created by the Austrian companies, by the training companies. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is true that the government groups are committed to the dual training system, which is certainly an excellent one, but also, of course, always needs a renewal, an adaptation. We are certainly on the right track. But we also know that the apprentice of today, that the one who has found a apprenticeship, is the skilled worker of tomorrow, as he is already being sought in many businesses today. Youth training should therefore be considered with particular attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19976	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20018	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Riepl, I originally made a "normal" speech – but after your speech I would have to make an actual correction now. According to your statement that in our country the situation of seniors is bad, the situation of women is bad and that of young people is not much better, I can only recommend: You often go abroad, Mr Riepl, and come. Then you'll be happy back again – happy because you see how good it is with us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They have addressed the question of world and European champions. – Mr Hofmann has already pointed out that Austria is Vice-European in terms of youth unemployment. In Seoul, Austrians were third-party worldwide – and best Europeans. That is to say, we are European champions in the quality of training and Vice-European champions in the field of youth employment. Ladies and gentlemen, this deserves applause for those who are aware of their responsibilities as regards training: These are our businesses, our trainers, these are tens of thousands of people who are devoting their working time, their work ability and the money to train our youth. I say something I have already said in committee: Please leave the church in the village for heaven's sake! Of course, there can be criticism over and over again, no question at all, but other countries would be happy if they were in such a situation to be European champion or vice-European champion. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I say what I said in committee. I say it deliberately as a question, because I do not want to trigger a whirlwind here. Think about it: Is it really the final conclusion of wisdom, when we say where we urgently need professionals for our prosperity, is the business of businesses, but they do much too little, in your opinion, while on the other hand we believe that many thousands of polytologists, psychologists, sociologists are being trained every year, which we cannot employ afterwards? Just one question! Think in a calm hour if that can be the final conclusion of wisdom! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: you mix apples with pears!]] Mr Riepl, you will come to the conclusion that we must be grateful that we have this training situation in Austria. That's why I really recommend you: Make use of it, drive abroad – and then come back happy!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20075	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20105	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This discussion about our young people is far too serious and too important as to offer room for emotional speeches or as unqualified statements as Mr Haigermoser has made here. The issue is far too serious, and therefore we should see the things as they are objectively and soberly. We do not need to paint well, we just need to work on it, because our all goal must be that every youth has a training place. Since the beginning of the apprenticeship crisis in 1996, a large number of positive interventions have been made on the initiative of the social partners with the help of AMS, federal government and countries, which have contributed to the relaxation of the situation. Despite all these efforts, however, there is no sustainable success. I can call you a very current number from Upper Austria. ==References====External links== On September 1,250 young people with no teaching post can still be used immediately. The hopes for the effectiveness of most of the actions selected to ensure that young people are taken up by the labour market by means of bridge-up measures or transfer training places have not been met. Even with short-term bridging measures, in which investment is made, it is obvious that the problem of apprenticeships cannot be solved. On the contrary: It will be invested in its extension. It is true that young people today receive, in short-term bridging measures, those relevant vocational training that will make them successful next year, but by doing so, they are forcing young people who are new to the labour market into the current school year in the fight for an apprenticeship. The remaining group is given access to short-term measures – and so on and so on. And that continues every year. It is therefore more useful to ensure the vocational training of the group currently active on the labour market for the entire duration of training through public intervention: This can be done through foundations that are targeted at those future-oriented professions for which there is a significant or greater demand on the labour market, but for which there is no sufficient training. Therefore: In principle, various variants are available, such as the tried-and-tested trial models, but in the short term, Federal Minister, it will, I believe, have to be foundations. There should be no dispute here, but measures should be taken to help our young people. The financing of these measures can give rise to the legitimate hope that, perhaps from 2002 onwards, it will be possible to achieve a much lower level of this apprenticeship problem, to remain there on a sustainable basis and at the same time to make a significant contribution to the satisfaction of the industry's skilled workforce needs.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20156	The next speaker is Mrs Burket. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20178	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Silhavy has said that we want to speak quite honestly about the theme of apprenticeship, we do not want to mention the positive things that we all already know, so I will now tell you the other things. The big nod in apprenticeships, i.e. the beginning of the non-training will, was about ten years ago. This is why it has reached its peak because at that time the conditions and regulations for commercial firms have adopted such an unbearable level that they have given up training. There was hardly a commercial company that did not have its associates and its apprentices. That's how it was! But at some point the screw was just too tight. This is the merit of the left half of the empire here, ladies and gentlemen. I can also give you a second report. I have an apprentice coming from a computer school. This computer school, which is relatively expensive, very complex and very strict, forms young students according to a system that is never applied anywhere. He comes from this school after three years and can't start with this training at all. This is a scandal, however, the reality! Well, much better! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Foundations can do this!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes, eh!]] About four weeks ago, I had 20 apprentices; two of them could be added and four sets of spelling. That was the "training standard" of school leavers, Mrs. Silhavy! And then you wonder why it is so difficult to accommodate apprentices?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Silhavy: The responsibility for this is actually with Mrs Gehrer!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Let's take a test here!]] I am just telling you that there are many reasons why there are such problems to find suitable teaching places. But thank God for the measures already mentioned today, and there are again more apprentices. The enterprises are also more and more willing to train apprentices. And if you also understand that it also requires flourishing businesses, companies that can survive and which also have a good and healthy basis, that is, from the economic situation also have a healthy basis, and if we can take back some of the regulations and laws which I believe are also superfluous in apprenticeship training, which I consider to be quite out of experience, then the number of apprentices will certainly increase even more in the positive. [[Abg. Riepl: For example?]] – But that's not your merit.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20269	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20291	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am sure that the problem we are dealing with today is a temporary one. We only need to look at the next number of students: These will go back, and it will not take very long, as we will look for apprentices like the famous pin in the hay. Nevertheless, I believe that with this 100 million Schilling package, we are taking a right measure to address transitional problems. But we should not go beyond this 100 million schilling, for a very simple reason: It has been shown that we are to form a net, and a net is always dependent on how to teach it; this has always shown the past. If it were started at 400 million schilling, it would also be used 90 percent. However, the net is the most expensive and, Mr Riepl, the most distant measure. Moreover, I would like to say that, most of the money comes from the companies, because it is derived from the EFZG Fund. Therefore, the most efficient measure is to insist that the market works. There would have to be a lot of things to do to look at the farms, which is sometimes very uncomfortable: It is very uncomfortable to rely on the instrument of teaching. Whole There are 151 young people in Austria who, together with the firms, try to get into a teaching activity. What's the problem? – This only works if the AMS supports it accordingly. But the AMS does only partially. In Carinthia, for example, this works very well, because there is the mediation rate that can actually be trained in the operation, at 50 percent. Therefore it is my or our opinion: If we are now teaching with 100 million schilling and if that is still increased or de facto is perhaps doubled by the countries, then this is a really enough approach on the basis of the figures now in place to accommodate all those who have difficulties. I therefore believe that it is right and right to say that the Federal Government is really doing everything it can to tackle possible training problems. I would therefore be pleased to discuss this 100 million schilling now – and not again about extensions that someone would have to finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20339	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20360	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have listened to this debate very interested, and I believe that I am of course very interested in this debate as a vocational school teacher who has been in school for 29 years. I ask you, Mr President: What should I answer a father, a mother – and it doesn't happen a week without a father/mother appearing in my office – who asks me: Can you help me get my child, my son, my daughter a apprenticeship? Faith You really think I can help them when I tell them: Unfortunately, no, I can't do that – but Austria is the world champion or vice-world champion, what is going on for skilled workers? I don't use anything at all! The crucial point is – and I invite everyone to do so, especially those previous speakers who have constantly discussed statistics: Let's get away from the numbers, because behind all those numbers people are with fates! That's why we have to look at these individual fates and consider how we can help. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another sentence, ladies and gentlemen, is very important to me in this matter. I am very much in connection with trainers, with entrepreneurs who train apprentices gratefully, and I also share this thanks – but at the same time we do not pretend all entrepreneurs who train apprentices who see this as a social act! Let's not pretend that this is a grace for their part, for: They all benefit from these young people! And the more they help to improve the quality of youth training, the more profitability they can achieve. That is why we are all called upon to make improvements, and I think we still have too many problems. We have problems because there are too few apprenticeships, we have problems because the industry is training too few apprentices, we have problems with the fact that small businesses are very much overshadowed, and we also have an organisational problem that I now bring in as a vocational school teacher, Mr Federal Minister: We do not know how many apprentices will come, we do not know in which teaching professions they will come, but within a very short time, the schools will have to take organizational measures to ensure that the second rail, namely the school, works in dual training. So I am not satisfied with this very late and only half-hearted solution, and I invite everyone in this House to make improvements because it is about our youth, and the youth is our future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20415	No one is reporting on this. That is why I am closing the debate. We shall come to the vote, and we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 794 of the supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment or amendment to Mrs Silhavy. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by this supplementary or amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law. As Mrs Silhavy has said, I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is the minority, and the request is therefore rejected. I shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I seek a sign of faith. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, including title and receipt at second reading, as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of giving an appropriate sign. – This has been adopted unanimously. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those Members of the House who agree to the proposal in third reading to give a sign. The proposal was adopted unanimously at third reading. 13. Point Report by the Economic and Social Committee on Amendment 500/A by Mr Helmut Haigermoser, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Puttingerand comrades concerning a federal law amending the economic loyalty law (793 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20489	Now we get to the 13th. Agenda item. The Head of Parliament does not accept oral reporting. Mr Heindl is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20518	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My contribution will be very short. It is about the economic loyalty law and therefore about a professional group that only affects about 5,000 people, but I am convinced that it is a professional group that will have even more importance in the future than in the past. The special thing I want to mention is the following: In an original vote, the board found how many wanted to create an additional pension and pension scheme, but it did not find any legal cover. The Constitutional Court fixed this. What I would like to mention in particular – this shows that you can get together in important materials –: You have to talk in good time, put things on the table, then you can clearly get approval from the opposition. What we take note of is that this creates a mandatory supplementary insurance – not an alternative or optional – for statutory pension insurance. I would like to mention something else, ladies and gentlemen, so that we cannot be blamed because there is a retroactive arrangement: The principle of equality is not violated, on the other hand, we are creating a solid legal basis in this system, since 1. In January 2000 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Our group agrees. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20565	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20594	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heindl has discussed the essentials. We also know, however, that in the field of pension provision, it is the repair of a law, precisely on the basis of a finding of the Constitutional Court. The board wants a second additional pension, and the majority of the members of the board has also agreed to this, so that the basic democratic requirement is also given. The people concerned, as has been said, want to bring about such a second status with almost three-quarters of a majority, which also comes from us liberals, namely another pension provision. ==References== February 1999, when this was decided, we pointed out – at that time as an opposition – that this matter is not constitutional. Unfortunately, we have kept God’s right. We will therefore be happy to put off this "misstand" – I say under quotation marks – and to make a repair: also in the interest of those concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20631	The next speaker is Mr Zernatto. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20652	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Micro!]] For God's sake! Important words do not find their recipients. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It is gratifying that this repair restores legal certainty – that is the crucial point. It is also remarkable, however, as I believe, that it is now indisputably also a common political concern to create a second or a third pillar in addition to the statutory pension provision. This law can also be a model for other areas, and I hope that we can find this common ground there too.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20696	The next speaker is Mr Kogler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20717	Mr President. Firstly, yes to the production of a constitutional state. Secondly, The second pillar will not touch the first one. That is enough for you to agree to the good conscience. Mr Khol, now I am definitely popular – I was the shortest.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20753	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofmann. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20775	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! On the basis of the constitutional problem, it is necessary to amend the economic loyalty law. 96 percent of the members of the Chamber of Economic Trustees voted in favour of this mandatory second pillar. The reason for the so-called constitutional repeal was the opposition of around 30 out of a total of 5 500 members. We want to spare the Minister of Economic Affairs that he has to lift the statutes. That is why we naturally agree with this matter of consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20805	There is no further statement of words to this effect. So I close the debate. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 793 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. The proposal was adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this proposal in third reading show this. . I note that the draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 14. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (549 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Swiss Confederation on mutual assistance in the event of disasters or serious accidents (826 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20851	We get to the 14th. Agenda item. The first speaker is Mr Gaál. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20875	Mr President. Federal Minister! I hope that we can decide with you today on this agreement, which is about creating framework conditions for voluntary assistance between Switzerland and Austria in the event of disasters or serious accidents. In the past, there has been a cooperation in the context of neighbourhood assistance, and now there is a framework for international law, such as Germany, Liechtenstein, Hungary, Slovenia and Slovakia. We are talking about this with the Czech Republic, and it will also come to a conclusion with Italy. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to use this opportunity to also point out that we have a wide range of issues to address, which are the protection against disasters and civil protection in Austria. Mr Cap has already said today that it is also about seriously considering and addressing the extension of protection against disasters and civil protection in Austria. In the past, we have repeatedly noticed that despite the excellent work of the operational organisations – rescue, red cross, fire brigade – and the authorities, there have always been greater complications, especially in the coordination between the federal, state and local authorities. We have a competence problem and mixed skills, so that we have the responsibility to each other: Federal Government – Country, Country – Municipalities, Country – Federation. I believe that we need to disarm this skill problem in order to create a clear, clear situation of competence and to deal with this unsatisfying situation, which you too know very well, Mr Klubobmann Khol, is trying to create a common civil and civil protection law, in agreement with the countries and communities, in order to create a clear competence for this. We need to find a scheme throughout Austria to protect against disasters and civil protection in order to find crisis management. It is about discussing all these issues with each other that we decide and determine this so that people can feel comfortable and secure in this respect too and enjoy living in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20915	The next speaker was Mr Reindl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20936	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Events such as the devastating avalanche accident in Galtür have shown the limits of our performance in the case of disasters. It was more than impressive how quickly and unbureaucraticly neighbouring countries supported us in the disaster in Galtür with aircraft and auxiliary teams and saved dozens of human lives. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, it is also said that the acquisition of nine new helicopters by the Federal Ministry of Defence, which are of course also used in the event of disasters and serious accidents, is more than justified. The Republic of Austria has already concluded agreements with Germany, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic on rapid and unbureaucratic assistance in the event of disasters and serious accidents. Such an agreement shall be concluded with the Czech Republic before the entry into force. Negotiations are also under way with Italy. High house! The subject of today's debate is the agreement with the Swiss Confederation. It regulates the permanent and close cooperation of the Contracting States with a view to preventing possible disasters or serious accidents, such as: Type and scope of assistance, entry or residence permits during operation, use of aircraft for the rapid pre-designation of auxiliary teams, control of operating costs, compensation, compensation and so on. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I therefore invite the ladies and gentlemen of this House to give their consent to the contrary agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20987	The next speaker is Mr Leikam. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21008	Mr President! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to say that there is a somewhat peculiar development on the government bank today: In the current hour, the Minister of Defence "played" the Minister of the Interior, and now – again on a matter concerning the Committee on the Interior – is the Minister for Economic Affairs of the Interior Ministers. - Okay, I should be right about that, but it's worth remembering that there's such a procedure today. [[Demonstrative applause with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaál has already announced that the Socialist Group will agree to this agreement with Switzerland for mutual assistance in the event of disasters or serious accidents. I can only underline that. In all European countries, there is a great need to ensure mutual assistance in the event of disasters and to create legal conditions. Austria does not, of course, exclude this and is also in the middle of it. With several countries around us there are already such agreements; they have already been mentioned, I do not need to repeat them. This is to be done with Switzerland today. If Italy and the Czech Republic will be so far over the next few months, we will have concluded such agreements with all the countries around us. I think that's a good development. [[Demonstrative applause with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gaál has already said that we attach great importance to common interest; we want to work together here. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have therefore not fully understood – and I would like to put it here – that a law with constitutional provisions, as we will decide today, has not previously been brought into contact with our group. I would ask you to contact us next time. We are quite ready for constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21069	The next speaker is Mr Egghart. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21090	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important that we support this agreement. It is very easy to conclude such international agreements. However, I would like to point out that on the other hand, we should also consider whether we should not show more solidarity in other security measures too. It cannot be that in Austria we simply leave the international defense to others – NATO or the like. In this context, I would just like to point out an article by Christian Ortner, in which he writes very clearly: Austria's safety doesn't stop in the airspace! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21123	No further words are available. That is why I am closing the debate. I welcome the Minister for the Interior. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser is just taking his place at the government bank.]] We shall vote on the request of the Committee to approve the conclusion of this Agreement in 549 of the Supplements, with several constitutional provisions of this Agreement. First of all, I note that there is the necessary quota for votes on constitutional provisions. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of giving approval to the conclusion of the present agreement to this effect. – This is unanimously and therefore adopted by the necessary majority. The agenda is being completed. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-10-23-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21176	I am still announcing that in today's session, self-employed applications 522/A (E) to 529/A have been tabled. Questions 2964/J to 2989/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Wednesday, 24. October 2001, 9 a.m. The agenda will be distributed through the clubs. The next meeting will begin with a Question Time. Today's sitting is closed.
