ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1155	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm opening today, Monday, 2. On 4 April 2001, at 4:28 p.m., the 66 convened for that date. Meeting of the National Council. The following Members shall be reported as preventing this meeting: Amon, Ing. Gerhard Bauer, Gaugg, Ortlieb, Dr. Glawischnig, Dr. Povysil and Schieder. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1189	The Federal Minister for Defence is represented by the Minister for Justice. The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour is represented by Mrs Elisabeth Gehrer. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1216	With regard to negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to a communication to be distributed in the meeting room if necessary. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (500 and 500 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2002 and Investments (540 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1277	We are going into the agenda and I will resume the postponed negotiations on the State budget for 2002. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1299	The Presidential Conference discussed the issue of the duration of the debate and reached the following consensus: A day block time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been proposed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 176 minutes, Freedom and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green 104 minutes. The speaking time of the member of the Federal Government responsible for the respective advisory group, who should exceed 20 minutes, or the speaking time of a State Secretary who should exceed 10 minutes, shall be counted on the speaking time of the respective government group, i.e. it shall be deducted from the speaking time of the respective government group. Furthermore, the term of office of non-governmental government members should be taken into account as a whole for the respective government group. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. I wonder if there are any objections. This is not the case. – This is so agreedly decided. Advisory Group VI Chapter 12: Education and culture Chapter 14: Science
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1350	We are entering the negotiations on the Advisory Group on VI, Education, Culture and Science. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. That is why we can go into the debate at once. Mr Antoni was the first speaker to speak, according to the list of speakers. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1377	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We will return to the negotiations on the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, in the field of education, the Socialist Group must already bear in mind that the FP/VP government is, in our view, irresponsibly saving on one of the most important and essential future issues for our young people, namely in the field of education, training and training. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Instead of finally launching an educational offensive, investing in education, despite economic growth and despite all promises and announcements, all areas of education will be covered by a lawn mower saving method. Education policy – I think I appreciate it correctly – is certainly not a focus on this government at the moment, but a central weakness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A brief historical review, ladies and gentlemen: When the SPÖ took over government responsibility in 1970, the share of the teaching budget in GDP was only 2.2 percent – a legacy of the conservative ÖVP single government time. In the 1970s and as a result in the 1980s, SPÖ succeeded in pushing this share up to almost 3 percent. With an enormous effort at the time, hundreds of general education and training schools were set up in all districts throughout Austria, thousands of new teachers were added to the school service, the school book campaign was introduced, the school leavers guaranteed. A significant increase in equal opportunities was the result. It opened the way to higher education for all the young people of Austria. Since the Federal Government is in office, the share of the education budget in GDP has fallen steadily. In 2000, it was only 2.7 percent, in 2001, there was a decline to 2.6 percent, and in the year 2002, the budget again found a historical low of only 2.49 percent. What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? – The turning policy has also been implemented in education. "Speed kills" is moving into the schools. Where this can lead or lead, we know very clearly from experience in other countries. Public education in the United Kingdom is still suffering today from the public schools' hunger policy, which Margaret Thatcher used at the time. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Brosz.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But now there's some time Tony Blair!]] – Yes, but the setback, Mrs. Brinek, was so dramatic that even Blair, with his educational offensives, could not produce the state of the time before Margaret Thatcher. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Believe me, I was before Margaret Thatcher came to the government, in England, and in my former role I looked at the English education system. It was really encouraging how it worked with children. Ladies and gentlemen! A once again very clear answer to your – I would say – unsocial lawn mower saving policy has probably given you the Vienna voters. Their inconsistency in the field of education has certainly not significantly influenced the outcome of the election, and further thoughts will follow. Faith I don't know what you're talking about. The people concerned will not accept this and will not be allowed to do so. I can only remind you of the reactions of the Vorarlberg teachers. The parents of the students who have recently been on television have also spoken a very clear language. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! They are not afraid to introduce a student tax either. With your slogan "Speed kills", you have simply left abruptly the path of equal opportunities for anyone who has marked the SPÖ for decades. With your "teachers out!Set "Policy The Austrian school has a good reputation for it. From the coming school year 2001/2002 alone, there will be 2 118 planning posts in compulsory schooling. In addition, there are 1 300 planning places at higher education and vocational education schools, which will be fewer. They're just planning places. The total number of teachers will be at least 5 000 to 6 000. And this is only the beginning, because we all know very well that the financial compensation with its consequences will go further. They have been completely subject to the zero-Erotics and the number thickness of the Vice-Chancellor and the Minister of Finance. You, Mrs Bundesminister, are no longer in a position to pursue an independent education policy. They also permanently push away any responsibility: The education disaster has indebted others! [[Abg. May. That's it, Dieter!]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, is not a responsible education policy if the Minister of Education no longer feels responsible for education or wants to be no longer responsible for it. The announcements of the Federal Chancellor in the Government Declaration, the contents of the government programme, but also the contents of your many Sunday speeches of the so-called educational offensive, of the quality offensive, of the foreign language offensive, of the technology offensive, yes, of the focus in the field of further education and adult education are in fact already macular. What's the practice like? – The higher education schools are hopelessly overcrowded. That's going to be ignored. There are no additional teachers, no additional units of value, no additional school places, no additional school room, no facilities for these schools, no investments in the necessary foreign language offensive – neither in schools nor in the field of further education and further education. The "Technology billions" are falling in slowly; so far, this is far too little. They also do not set up initiatives for training places for young people who do not find apprenticeships. We will need 1 200 practical training places in autumn. In addition, they do not set up any additional initiatives for the recovery of educational qualifications, be it in primary school, whether in vocational school or in the field of professional maturity examination. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! You don't seem to be interested in all this. They ignore all opinions of educational experts who unisono note that there will be a massive loss of quality in Austrian education due to the inconsistency of savings in the field of education. We Social Democrats support this statement and this negative expectation of 100 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1466	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. The clock is set to a voluntary time limit of 10 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: (on the way to the speaker's desk) I heard I should take a shorter hold!]] We are always happy to listen to you, ladies and gentlemen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1514	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I can disprove the hypotheses of my previous speaker, Mr Antoni, and call him two or three things from the field of education and science. The Federal Government has focused on science, education and research and has reserved for research, for example, 7 billion schilling. The universities make a significant contribution to this or take part of their research programme. This is about jobs at universities, sustainable research results that create jobs, and so on. This is therefore a serious priority. Another example: 500 million schillings to improve study conditions have already been granted for the current year. In other words, the Commission has worked well with the involvement of universities. Work is already under way on the next project and the topics for 2002 will be given; Scope: 1 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not only this – but it is important – that the focus is identified. What will we do in the future? – This will be the guarantee – while at the same time providing mobility – of the scientific staff. It is a good relationship between flexibility and continuity in terms of service relations. [[Abg. May. Posch: Will you be...?]] For this reason, young scientists who wait high-qualified in front of the door have a chance to become a member of the university team, the circle of researchers and university teachers. However, it is also about giving committed men and women the opportunity to get back to university at a qualified level after a Sabbath – or call it any way you want – and a job in other areas. [[Abg. Shasching:... Life planning of young people!]] I therefore think it makes sense, above all, for the transition to full lawfulness, that the respective university should have a point pool – the Minister has already presented the idea – from which the University can draw resources for temporary and unlimited service relations. As a framework, I imagine that there should be minimum and maximum standards as well as orientation at the age structure of the respective institute team. It makes a difference whether I have to look for young employees with the magnifying glass or whether in a certain way I can start from a permanent staff that will work there for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen! The partial result of the service right which the service provider and trade union have achieved in the negotiations is to be welcomed. I, like all of you, am aware that negotiations will continue in the next few days. The details so far let me hope for a good overall result. What do these details consist of? – It is about getting into scientific work about a four-year activity as an assistant in education. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, according to UOG 1975 and before, the assistant career was always a kind of training relationship. It will also typically end with the dissertation in the future. It also concerns the application as an assistant body, which ends with the habilitation or equivalent qualification and thus forms the prerequisite for a further result, namely for the application for a temporary and/or an indefinite professorship. In my opinion, this qualification – as the social partners are now called for to negotiate well – should also be open to all temporary staff in a reasonable manner. This applies in particular to women because they are highly qualified players, female participants in the application question of good professor positions. What has already been achieved and to be welcomed is the protection of trust, which applies to all those who provide proof of qualifications as provisional officials and thus prove the prerequisite for the definitive takeover into the public service. Ladies and gentlemen! I have mentioned some figures in the Federal Government's dedicated budget programme. You can read details in the budget notes. It is an absolute and relative increase that will also be achieved in the science budget. A final thought – and this appeal I do not address to those present here; they are excluded from it: Let us not pretend that Austria is on its own in a certain form of reform and renewal! This is not the case, but our neighbouring and co-combating countries are working on the reform of the university throughout Europe. They're working on renewal in manifestos and pleas. [[Abg. May. Posch: "Reformwort" is a good word!]] That is, everywhere it is about shifting decision-making structures from central administration to autonomous university. I have been able to have many conversations in the last few weeks – as perhaps you all can – and it has been shown that this shift in decision-making in the university area will be desired at least in conversation. They're just saying, We can't do that right yet, but without learning it won't work. So if universities are places of learning, change and reform, then this learning will also have to be the case in the sense of self-application. Another final thought: I also mean that the often feared total distribution of educational economic ceilings – with the focus on "economics" – will be maintained when the university is self-contained and of course formulated, which today, at the beginning of this millennium, belongs to the university. I certainly count the anchoring of the structure, the being and the power of the humanities. Some places have indeed been doubted about their function. But only the humanities themselves can articulate their performance and competence. I conclude with a nice formulation I found at the philosopher Odo Marquard. He says: Awareness, preservation and orientation, these are the most important tasks of the humanities. – They are still very well anchored in the Austrian university landscape, and I wish that this remains so, but there is the quoted renewal that is referred to as necessary there, that is, in the place of the humanities themselves. This requires money, but not only money, but also a lot of reforming power that I wish for. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1578	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. What time do you want to speak? - Please. [[Abg. Brosz: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 12 minutes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1613	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Brinek mentioned once again that this budget and education policy should have something to do with an educational offensive. You too, Mrs Federal Minister, have repeatedly emphasized this over the past few weeks. I am trying to clarify this from our point of view in this debate on the budget chapter on education. You will probably say again that the data from the budget of the Minister of Finance is "untrue". It may be that Mr Grasser's data are false – but then I do not know which numbers are true. In any case, what I'm going to tell you is in the budget, even if You should say again that everything is different. The first point is the following: It is true that this educational budget has the highest amount in absolute terms. However, we need to see how the increase has developed in recent years. Mrs. Federal Minister, you did exactly one year ago, on 6. March 2000, the following – I quote you now –: It is clear that teacher costs alone rise by 4.5 percent. 3 per cent of these are structurally dependent, for example, on preemptions, 1.5 per cent by wage increases, and staff costs should definitely be covered. If I do nothing but quote you and calculate with you now, then I come to the following result: At 4.5 per cent, it would have been much more than 10 per cent of the increase that would have been necessary in three years – thumbs and thumbs. However, if we look at the budget from 1993 onwards, we see – and now we come back to what you have always called "untrue" or "half true" – that two different tables are contained in this budget of the Minister of Finance, namely the financial budget and the functional budget. In the functional budget, you see – and this is a really sad realization – that an increase of exactly 1 percent has taken place in three years. That's the "education offensive" you're talking about. Apparently you see the missing 10 to 12 percent as an offensive. – I would say: That's a blatant educational decline! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One thing you have pointed out in the last debates – I thought, too, I would like to take a look at whether this is true. They say that this budget would have the highest percentage share of total budget expenditure. Your argument was yes: It's being saved everywhere, so also in education, but it's still high in relation. Mrs. Minister! Here, too, I need to correct you. Again I quote the "untrue" or "half true" statements of the Minister of Finance – you only need to read in the budget issue –: The percentage of education budget was 9.87 percent in 1993 – the first year it appears in it. In 2002, it will be 9.66 percent. – So you were wrong here too. In this respect too, it must be noted that it is by far not the highest share but a smaller proportion. You can only find out: It's a savings package! There is a substantial amount of expenditure to be measured, namely gross domestic product. We have already explained this in the special session and have also shown tabularly: Education expenditure on gross domestic product has fallen by 0.5 percent over the last ten years. 0.5 percent of a gross domestic product of currently 3,000 billion schilling – that is, 15 billion schilling has become less in the last ten years. If you speak under these conditions of being an educational offensive, I am not surprised that no one can believe this in schools and universities. It's not like that! I'd say it's not even a savings package, it's really a reduction package. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to point out briefly to the school area a few sentences, which will mean that in concrete terms. As far as universities are concerned, this will still be explained in detail by Mr Grünewald. They're talking about structural measures. In this word, it is thought that this is something great and far-reaching. I then considered what these structural measures are – apart from the fact that teachers have to teach longer, that they will receive less money for longer education, and that the framework conditions are getting worse, for example, by increasing the number of school students. If these are structural measures for you, I am sorry for Austrian education policy. I think it would really be necessary to take some structural measures. I would just like to remind you now of the possibilities of summarising school types, and also of the possibility of thinking about whether this division is really necessary. All of this would be things you could really discuss structurally. But that's not what you're talking about. Structural measures have only one orientation, which means budgetary measures. We are far away from content measures that have a real impact on school quality and quality of education. I mentioned the number of school students. You too have now admitted that they will rise. I would just like to draw attention to one thing. They always say: Let's not look at the maximum number of students – they won't reach anyway – but let's look at the average. We had a debate on this last week. There are 3 300 school classes in Austria, in which the legal school maximums are already exceeded. There is this buffer in the AHS and BHS, you know that; 3 300 classes are already above it now. As you keep saying that the averages are not that high, I ask you: What do those students who sit in classes with 36 students have of saying that there are classes in which there are much less? What do those teachers who need to teach in such classes have of knowing that there are smaller classes elsewhere? It is about changing these conditions, finally getting away from the giant classes, which no longer think of modernising the school system, to a modern teaching. For these, I would say so, not only the number of school students would be the criterion, but under other conditions, in smaller classes you could teach other classes. That would be where we would like to come from. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How is that supposed to go?]] [[Abg. Schasching: (in the direction of Abg. May. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)]] The most widely affected are the additional offers in the areas of integration or linguistic support. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Increased teaching obligations? Increase teaching obligations, or what?]] There will be massive savings everywhere, which you simply don't call precise numbers at the moment. By the way, this is the next accusation you have to make. But before that, I would like to address the field of information technology. Largely announced was the information technology billion, as there should be massive expansions. Again and again, we are talking about how many schools are already connected to the Internet. What does that mean? In many schools this means that there is a computer somewhere in a director's room, and so the school is connected to the Internet. [[Abg. May. The classes!]] So what? What impact does this have on the quality of education that a computer is around there and perhaps there is an internet access? This has structurally... [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's better organized!]] Mrs. Brinek! I can tell you cases where we've got the information that's exactly the case. There they even say they don't know what to do now. Does the class take place at once in the director's room? - I mean, that might be the next picture. That's exactly the case, there's a computer that's super-connected there. There they ask: Now we have the computer, what are we doing now? That may not be all about information technology, which you are asking for! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The computer in the classroom!]] Above all, the data situation is a point in connection with the fact that you are always talking about it: the opposition is uncertain, the teachers are insecure and some parents are insecure – all are running insecurely through the area, only you operate the true Enlightenment, you have the true numbers, and everyone else does not know them. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have probably read the budget questions I have asked and others have asked. There it is stated: How is the number broken down by the 2 118 teachers in compulsory education, which according to your numbers is no longer supposed to exist? Where will they be found? – Your answer was: I can't say these are flat-rate numbers, we've calculated that, we don't know. I'm just wondering: Why does the Council of State Schools in Vorarlberg know, or why does the Council of State Schools in Burgenland know how many teachers are affected, and you in your ministry do not know? As long as you refuse to put these figures on the table and to make it clear who will be affected, you will not be able to raise the accusation of uncertainty against the opposition – or against whoever else – for so long! They refuse to disclose clearly what is happening. You spoke of it again yesterday, and I saw the programme on the subject. By the way, it was an excellent comment from Mrs Hopfmüller, in which she stated that the educational budget was so high that the percentage and from the point of view of development, of course, was wrong. There too, I think, you spoke again of the demonstrators on Thursday. This is probably also in Vorarlberg, when 80 percent of teachers come to an event out of protest, loud "left-left" FCG trade unions, you have to say. They're most of the ones who're there. So I don't know where the left-hands run around. But in Vorarlberg the data is known, where in percentages exactly how many teachers' posts will be affected. Only you say you don't know that number! That is why I think you must make the accusation of uncertainty happen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You always make everyone else responsible, but you don't get it to the point of just how it's going to look like that. I have said several times that there is something strange about this government. There is a government party, namely yours, which, if you look at the teachers' representation elections, has had a certain – let us say – image, a position in the school sector. In addition, there is another group, namely the FPÖ, which has never had it. I'm surprised that the FPÖ is massively persuasive with its claims and that you are just taking this course, which is set out here. You have made many statements in the education sector, in the school sector, which you have now had to reverse. I'd just like to read to you about what happened on 8 May. ==References====External links== There will be no stopover for teachers at schools and teachers at universities. – I don't need to add anything more, you just need to look at the real situation. A second point – that will certainly be addressed by Mr Groenewald – 8. February 2000: The basic study without fees is my concern. – It was obviously not a big concern. At least there's no longer that. Where your education policy, your standing – in order to formulate it in English – has remained your strength, which you had in a government, is questionable to me. You can only see that the attacks that the FPÖ is riding, not in the diction, but also in the meantime, that you say: They are all insecure!, almost already carried along. There is no position such that you would say: I present myself to the education system and also to the teachers. On the contrary: They allow a political group that is now in the government to make a real mood against an entire professional group. I find that very unfortunate in itself. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: thunderous applause!]] Finally, I would like to lose a few words on the structural reforms, namely what it would really be about from our point of view. I repeat: There is very little to do with structural reforms in the education system. I think it would be necessary to take real reforms. We talked about it sometime last week. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Which one?]] The question arises whether our school system with this very strict separation is really so good, as far as the subject canon is concerned. If you look at our results in the international comparison, you have to realize that there are other school systems that work differently and get better results. There is simply no discussion in us about the need for a different approach to project-oriented learning, cross-disciplinary learning, understanding learning from the framework conditions. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer:... 1985 started!]] While you will be able to introduce this, you will be able to try to lay down requirements in this regard that this is important, but if you do not change the framework conditions if you continue to insist on the technical division, if you do not agree on when in which type of school individual subjects with their priorities progress, then there will simply be a barrier in terms of understanding learning that you do not get over. The weighting in the school types is similar. – Mrs Federal Minister, I do not want to address you personally now, but I know from various panel discussions the following formulations by your party colleagues and also by representatives of the FPÖ: There are failed students, there are less successful students. Let's make a clean separation: the gears should go to the gymnasium, the others should go to the primary schools! One could really do this differently, namely to consider: Where are some talents? Where do you need to promote? What offers must be offered to improve the education system in general? – I know very little about you in this regard. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To the area of integration of disabled persons: I was really surprised which barriers it was still – I was not aware of what extent I was doing in Parliament. - there. Although I was always aware that you said that after the compulsory school, I often heard about mentally disabled people. That it is not about achieving the learning goal, but that it is about integration, you have never spoken of it! There is a different approach. But also for the physically disabled, the sensory disabled there are massive barriers if they want to use the school system. I know a specific case of a blind student who has received the answer: A blind student does not fulfil the admission requirement for an AHS anyway, for what do we need these integration measures now? The fact that there are still barriers to people with disabilities in higher schools is obvious. As long as it is not legally established that integration in all schools must be possible, there will be no improvements in this respect. In any case, this would be a structural measure, which – and you can be sure of this – will be borne by the vast majority of the Austrian population. If people knew what barriers there were, there would be a good cry. But you're often not aware of that at all. It is unimaginable for the people that someone who is blind simply cannot visit AHS. Unfortunately, this is very often the case in Austria. These would really be starting points to move forward in this regard. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The last point to be made in the Committee is as follows: Talking together, school democracy. Here too structural reforms. Where do we have the opportunity to really determine in common how school is going to happen in Austria? – I find very little of structural reform here in addition to the government’s reluctances. There is a massive need for action here. Mrs. Federal Minister! My degree is a sad one, but I can't say it differently: Education policy has resigned under this Federal Government! And unfortunately your person also has – over Indeed, their projects could be discussed in terms of content – as a strong personality in the government was completely lost in weight, and this is very bad for education policy in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1827	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e1848	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The tenth or eleventh educational debate, but still – I waited very much for it – no proposals from Antoni, no proposals from Brosz, that was not to be expected either. [[Abg. Brosz: Didn't you listen?]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Haven't you been looking after?]] Mr Brosz addressed the following points: It has already been teaching minister Moritz – that was 1985, since you had even less idea of school policy than today – a working group under the then Ministerial Councillor Burger – Chisté and Pfaffenwimmer, if I remember quite well, and under the scientific supervision of Posch and Altgerichter – were set up to disband the hourboard to finally implement project teaching. [[Abg. Brosz: And what happened?]] All the successors of Moritz were well-democratic ministers, but did not do anything but nothing from the results of this working group. [[Abg. Brosz: Goers, for example!]] - Please? – It had already been forced to take measures that had been highlighted by socialist waste disposal policy. [[Abg. Brosz: Gehrer Sozialdemocratic?]] [[Abg. Shasching: Ah, this is a further spatula now!]] Nevertheless, Gehrer manages to implement comprehensive reforms with a new government partner, both in the field of higher education and compulsory education. It is precisely the State Teacher Service Law, which we decided last week, that is a trendsetting model, as shown by the results of the Administrative Reform Commission working group. This comes to the very conclusion that this new state teacher service law is the right step in the right direction. It considers that a clear separation of the responsibilities of the federal and state authorities in the context of a constitutional reform is necessary and reports that the Commission sees public schools as a provider of services in the future. I come to the point that proves why this is so important, which has already been decided: The school is expected to be in the future under the direction of a qualified board appointed on time, consisting of one or two persons. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What is the director? Not qualified?]] The school management then has the usual responsibility, and the board of directors is in a given framework, namely within the global budget allocated to the school, financial sovereignty and human sovereignty. That is why what was decided last week in this House is the right step in this direction, because that is something we imagine under school of the future. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] These are concrete ideas. I am convinced that, after a corresponding discussion, we will actually implement much of what the Reform Commission proposes. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Within this framework, the Board of Directors shall have the authority of both teachers and non-teachers. And I will now show you why this is so necessary, Mr Brosz, because social democracy has not managed with its idea of administration to date, that a travel bill does not go astray and requires a very high administrative burden until it is finally cut off, or that in the Federal Schools the post-occupying of a cleaning force, colleague Antoni, needs ten steps – and that is now reformed! [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] [[the speaker shall keep another document up to date]] It's the bright insanity that you have to understand all this until you can put on a cleaning woman half-day. There are still many necessary measures to be implemented, which must be reformed, and we will also be saving. We have already made many proposals in the field of education and have also implemented them, which will have a positive effect. Now we're gonna have to get started. Mr Antoni! I brought you another example of socialist administration. [[The speaker shall keep the copy of an organigram up to date.]] This is the organigram of a national school council. That's a sensational story, that's 120 desks! [[Abg. Brosz: Is that the FPÖ?]] I am convinced that as soon as the Reform Commission has looked at this, at least 100 of these 120 desks will not be needed because these desks manage themselves. There is a lot to do, ladies and gentlemen, and we will do a lot of things there! I've done something else: I have written together the inspectors and directors of various institutes installed under social democratic leadership. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] There are about 400 inspecting organs in this system. [[Call to the liberals: Unbelievable!]] There too we will reform. All of this is not necessary. There has been enthroned and pragmatic under decades of socialist domination. And this is also the problem of the Federal Minister that you have still pragmatized everything you have produced in nonsense. This is the big problem we have to contend with today! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why it costs so much money, and that is why there is relatively little room for the Federal Minister. [[Abg. May. Posch: Have you already been pragmatized, Mr. Schweitzer?]] – I’ve been pragmatized whether I wanted to or not. [[Abg. Faul: Then put it back!]] – 98 percent of all teachers have pragmatized you in Burgenland without any need. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] [[Prolonged calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] To conclude: Mr Posch! The last concrete proposal made by Mr Antoni was: Please, let's see that all the teachers we have in the teacher reserve make sense. [[Abg. Oillinger: The compulsive sweater! ... I'm sorry...!]] – That alone shows what wrong policy is You did! You've hired too many teachers you couldn't employ. What do we do with the teacher reserve? Antonis was a question. He couldn't answer that.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2091	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (in the direction of SPÖ) We have to clear your lap!]] [[Abg. May. Posch: The Schweitzer must be accused of you, Mrs. Federal Minister!]] Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2152	This is important, Mr President, for Mr Schweitzer to speak out. [[Abg. May. Posch: Perhaps He has a socialist...!]] [[Further calls and calls between honourable Members Mag. Schweitzer and Mag. Posch.]] Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If a budget is the policy of a government cast in figures, then the special debate is the place for fundamental positions, for joint positions, for approximations and also for differences, Mr Schweitzer. [[Ongoing calls and calls between honourable Members Mag. Schweitzer and Mag. Posch.]] And I'll start right there with you. You've been talking about desks here, desks that are too many, you mean too many desks. [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: Needless!]] [[Abg. May. Posch: He's from the furniture industry!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (showing on the organigram) Look at this!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: (on the organigram in the hand of Abg. May. Sweitzer switzer) Does this also apply to black federal states?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is eh Upper Austria!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Here you go!]] Have you ever considered that people sitting on these desks are doing their work, most of them doing very good work, doing those laws that have been passed here in this House, partly unanimously, partly in earlier times by SPÖ and ÖVP? They are not self-employed! Since yesterday this "matter" broadcast was so shocking, I thought: Can I thank the officials at all, as it is customary to talk about such a chapter? Can I do this without Mrs. Vice-Chancellor being strengthened in her opinion, is it about loud left-wing resistance nests? That's how it was presented yesterday! People who do nothing but do their work, namely manage the school, manage the universities, teach and research, were threatened with disciplinary procedures. [[Abg. Achatz: The children force them to sign resolutions against the Federal Government! This is political necessity!]] I expressly say – and I hope that this House can decide to do so – a great thank you to all the staff in the schools, in the universities, in the ministry for their work, because it is an excellent work being done here. [[Abg. Achatz: Shame!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As rarely before, universities have found themselves in detail in the media in recent months. If in autumn 2000, it was the accidentally introduced study fee, it is now the discussion about the new service law, by which young scientists are to be demolished to "return assistants", as the platform "New University Law" of the University of Graz states. A new organisation and its priorities have not yet been discussed. Everything is under the myth of zero deficit. What does zero deficit mean for the teachers? What does it mean for the students? There are still new debts, contrary to all the demands, and the Austrians have never paid as many taxes and taxes as they do today, and they have never received so little money for it. This is the myth of your zero deficit, and we can only say: Thank you, that's what we can do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On the example of the universities, it is a new tax of 10 000 s per year of study from the autumn of this year. It is the limitation of services in international contacts and programs. There is too little money available for research participations, such as the science section’s funding for space research, but many other examples could be cited. There is a lack of rapid data transmission, it has been saved in grants for student social services such as homes, people and the like. In the case of staff costs, it is also more and more often said: Save it! Mrs. Minister! I am hearing more and more complaints from universities that new study plans cannot therefore be approved – partly not already at the universities – because the necessary personnel coverage is not available, although it would be very important for these new study plans to enter into force. Absolutely, the budget is rising, you're right! The budget increases from 2.295 billion y to 2.364 billion j. However, if you deduct the revenue from the tuition fees that parents often have to pay, then only more than 2.147 billion ye remain. And if you subtract this parental additional benefit that you commit, then the budget today is 6.5 percent lower than last year. – Not a focus, so, but a weak point, a minus that stands before these "stimulations". In the case of university billions, it is about 70 million ye, while the revenue from the tuition fees is higher, i.e. that what was promised to return as quality when the tuition fees were introduced has not even been fully returned. In addition, we have once criticized the fact that, as it is so well called, "absorbing measures" for the study fee come from unemployment insurance in a constitutional and useful way. Let me now turn to the main topic of future and current university policy, namely the new law of service and the university organisation. Mrs. Minister! My first and since that event on 15. December 2000 unanswered question to It reads: What do you want to achieve with these reforms? What are the objectives of this reform? – As there are no more superficial answers such as "make universities competitive" or similar, the answers must be very concrete. Where is it currently missing? And: Why is this reform the correct answer to such identified shortcomings? This question is still unanswered. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Well, that's where you have to listen!]] Right to serve. A preliminary remark: In the last three decades, Austria has become one of the richest and richest countries in the world. One of the main advantages of the site was and is considered to be the social peace in Austria in addition to the qualifications of employees. Therefore, we renew our demand for the Federal Government: Find an agreement with the trade union in the field of service law, with the competent representative of the staff! In terms of content, if we discuss this new right of service – and I do not know exactly what draft we can discuss at the moment; I live like all of the press releases made by different parties and can only refer to what was initially officially presented by the Ministry – the following: We all want the most qualified scientists at our universities. I ask you, Mrs Minister: Is it reasonable for the individual to live only from temporary employment between the ages of 23 and 35? Would you like to establish a family on such a basis? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: They're getting the kid's money! 6,000 S! - Great!]] The second question: Is it not necessary in every farm to maintain a necessary continuity in the human sector, that you know, there are people who maintain the basic structure? And a third question: Is there not a danger – and I believe it exists – that if one strengthens the one at the top of a hierarchy and weakens those below it, this system becomes even more hierarchical, the dependence of the middle building on the professors becomes stronger than ever before? – These are our concerns! We also believe that one should take seriously that this right of service is particularly harmful to women's careers. Women currently account for most of the temporary employment. [[Abg. Ing. Herbert Graf:... Private sector...!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Reforms are necessary! We as the opposition party, although Mr Schweitzer did not hear it, have made a number of such proposals to the government parties, I recall the motion for a resolution of 12. March. What is particularly important for the current situation? – Eight points, in view of the illuminating lamp in the near future: It is necessary to implement the new study plans of the Study Reform 1997 and 2000. We urgently need these new study plans, including the Bakkalaureates studies, because the main reason for the long international study duration in Austria is that we do not have such studies with a minimum duration of three years. The universities must be more involved in adult education. We need to invest in remote studies. This is not only about money, but also about changes in the university study law. We need to strengthen the non-university research institutions. I remember the Max Planck Institutes, the Frauenhofer Institutes, there are the new jobs there. In industry alone, they will not exist, they will not exist at universities alone, something additional needs to be built up. Teacher training: Mrs. Minister! We are waiting for the evaluation committee report. What has happened since we passed this law in the House? Need to expand budget autonomy You can't ask us to do that for years. Then there is the improvement of precarious service conditions and, last but not least, the expansion of vocational colleges, the high-school sector, especially in the health, social and IT professions. I can still ask Mr Graf what has become of this A-value. You've always made such great requests when we were still in the government. I think that's a good thing. Or does this also fall under the category "promising and broken"? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The Carinthians have implemented this!]] These are eight concrete proposals that we make to you today, and I am sure you will also receive the consent of the universities to most of them. Finally, research: Research no longer occurs in "New Governments". BMWK or BMVIT – that is, science and culture; Transport, innovation, technology – but no longer F for research in the ministries. Isn't it? BMF would fit – Federal Ministry of Research?- Oh, my God! – No, Federal Ministry of Finance – and so it is. In fact, research is no longer a matter of Parliament's concern. This is a major accusation against this budget, namely that we cannot talk about research priorities. You will continue the 2001 budget, and all that goes beyond that will be presented to the Council for Research and Technology Development. It is intended to make proposals, and the Minister of Finance pays if he likes to do so, or not. You too, Mrs. Minister – you are a Minister for Research! – in fact, we have no competence to do so, and that is our criticism. This is about 5 to 6 billion schilling, which is completely past Parliament's decisions, past Parliament's decisions in the field of research policy – or not! We don't know, we can't talk about it because it's not part of this budget. This is a gross disregard for budgetary truth. Let's get together: We have unrealistic or unworded reform goals, inadequate budgeting from the regular budget and partially unacceptable sources – keyword: Unemployment insurance – lack of budgetary truth and from all of the government's indebted insurance environment at universities and also at schools. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Brosz.]] This is the balance sheet of this former Federal Government: Education and research are, therefore, not a matter of gravity, but of weakness in the government, which is the result of the fetish of the zero deficit, which is the victim of important investment in the future for our youth. Mrs. Minister! You have to bear the responsibility for this budget yourself and alone.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2406	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. The rules on the deduction of speaking time are known. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2427	Mr President. High house! This government has an important task: It has the task of not letting indebtedness grow. If you know that you only have to pay more than 110 billion schillings each year, as much as the educational budget, you know what debt is. We would do much easier if we wouldn't have these debt mountains. [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] But it is a task for the future, for young people, to ensure that they can do something in the future, that they do not just have to run around with debt. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] One year's Ministry of Education means that we are now implementing the objectives previously pursued in the Ministry of Education throughout the field of education: more autonomy, more independence, more quality, more administrative simplification, less centralism. Education policy is at the centre of policy. It is necessary to put in place structural measures in order to get the personnel costs under control, but I am very clear: These structural measures do not mean an underestimation of the work of those concerned. Our teachers at the schools do the best work, the professors at the universities as well, and my officials in the house do the best work, and I thank them for making the budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Structural measures to reduce staff costs are called, one cannot let the staff stand grow unhindered – no matter how many students are there, no matter how many students there are. These structural measures do not mean any deterioration in the supply for schools, and it should be an end to this uncertainty of students and parents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What I miss very painfully in the opposition is an intellectual honesty, namely intellectual honesty: Yes, we should have put in place some structural measures, because Minister Edlinger proposed exactly the same measures at that time to limit the budget deficit. Ladies and gentlemen! This intellectual honesty would also do very well for the whole field of education, because I believe that education should be carried from all sides. That's why I say – whoever can grasp it, he'll take it! –: The budget reorganisation ensures good education; we guarantee that the necessary funding will continue to be available in the future so that education for our young people remains the best education. I would also like to say to Mr Brosz, who seems to have been out of school for a long time: I don't know where you saw this computer in a direction. For example, in the autumn of each AHS we will add an additional computer lab, we will set up 20 new laptop classes; every AHS that sets up a laptop class will receive 80 000 S. – This technology offensive is an important offensive, and we will drive it further. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With regard to new forms of teaching and learning and interdisciplinary teaching, I ask you to read in the 1999 curriculum: Everything in it is very accurate. This budget also includes universities. It is a particular concern for me to say quite clearly what we want: We want modern, high-performance universities that compete in international competition and compete in the world class of universities. - That's our goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This requires a new service right – a service right with more flexibility. However, we want to give security to those assistants who are currently in a provisional relationship with the university who are working on their habilitation, who expect them to be taken into the state of the pragmatized university teachers who have this career ahead. We say: Of the 1,200 who are currently in this provisional relationship, those who have their habilitation are transferred to the pragmatic ratio; the others are subjected to a quality test with two external evaluations. This was stimulated by the union. We will guarantee security for these young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The trade union, under the provisional chairman Zelewitz, said: We agree that future service relations are contractual relations. – This is reasonable and well done, and in this respect we will work together with the trade union. We will also ensure that there are continuing professors' careers, but the entry to a university professor is the quality assurance for the professorship at the university. If you work as an assistant, you can apply for qualified professor positions; however, you have to have applications and thus a quality assurance at this intersection. There may be temporary professorships which are transferred to an indefinite relationship, full professorships, which are in an indefinite relationship with an increased protection of termination. So it is common at modern universities – flexibility that we need in international competition. Ladies and gentlemen! Research plays a very important role in this field of universities. It is wrong to say that the Council for Research and Technology Development makes proposals. The proposals make our good universities, the good institutes. The Research and Technology Development Council evaluates these proposals. It notes: What is modern research, what fits into the concept in Austria, where can we develop strengths, where can we establish ourselves in niches? The Council for Research and Technology Development has already released funds: 71 million schilling for investments in research research – in Schrödinger scholarships, in Meitner habilitation scholarships, for women, in Wittgenstein programmes; 143 million schilling for the security and expansion of infrastructure, in particular in the field of the Austrian Academy of Sciences and Scientific Institutions; 226 million schilling for the development of research in the international field, ensuring participation in EU projects, bi- and multilateral projects; 60 million schilling into cooperation between science and the economy. These are the investments in research! 7 billion schilling will be provided by this government for research, and universities will have a large share of it. Ladies and gentlemen! International comparisons show us: With the expenses per student, per student, per student we are in the upper peak field. Interestingly, rectors, who come from Germany, say start with us again and look at the budget: This budget is good. We can start a lot with this. We just need more freedom to distribute it rationally. We will ensure that there is no rigidity at the universities. More autonomy, more independence, more mobility, more competition – this is our goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In summary, I note: 110 billion schilling for education, science, culture and research, that is 8 billion euros. This is the biggest budget ever for this area, and it represents a strength of this government: the educational offensive! This is new government: do the best for our young people!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2514	Next speaker is Mrs Wolfmayr. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2535	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! To say something about culture would take a lot of time. I have, however, reduced my speaking time to four minutes, and that is why – all the essential points could not have been addressed in this short period of time – because I would like to introduce to you two actions of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I think are very good and which I believe I can prove to you how to deal with cultural policy from the financial point of view, but also from the point of view of the idea. The first thing I want to show you is a brochure that has been published with the title: "MACHINE AND SPEAK". No one will dispute the importance of employment on this issue. More sensitivity in dealing with language is constantly demanded, including very much in this House. Here we now have a brochure that anyone interested can request from http://www.politikbilding.at/, which is a service for political education. [[Abg. Swimmling: (to the liberals point out) Give that over there! That's the problem: those who need it don't read it!]] – I say this to everyone, and I think each of us should read it! I mean myself, even though I do not think that I can handle language so badly, but you can never be sensitive enough, and the sensitive use of language is now of vital importance. [[In the case of the ÖVP, members of the liberals and the Agg. You son of a bitch.]] Thank you! In this, one finds world pictures, attitudes – especially gender-specific insensitivity – especially in respect of respect and disregard in dealing with strangers or minorities. I'd say look at this! What I think is very good at the Political Education Service is that a virtual discussion forum has been set up. The second action is also funny and successful and, I believe, has not yet spoken to all: ==References== There is finally the rubble action on March. I'll show you this now. That's the magnification of an unruly. [[The speaker keeps the enlarged Rubbellos up.]] In the original, it looks like this. It costs 50 p. Under the motto "Land of Treasures" this action seems to develop to a full success. It was originally expected that there would be a yield of 30 million. Within the first two weeks, 20 million have already been taken, with another 20 million in the last week. We know that the Austrians like to rub up, but they also do it for a good purpose, is all the more grateful. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Rubbles for the government!]] Many benefit from this: It benefits every individual who rubbles, because he can gain; it of course benefits the Austrian lottery society; but it benefits above all from the Austrian monument protection, for which these funds are very important in the sense of world cultural heritage and conservation of all these cultural goods. All these benefit from it, so we Austrians in our entirety. Finally, I would like to say that it has not yet been possible to carry out this action among Social Democratic Finance Ministers. First Minister of Finance Grasser has put in place the necessary flexibility. I thank him for that, because I think that's a very good thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] "Land of Treasures" is a good thing for the Monument Office.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2609	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2631	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Federal Minister, let us try intellectual honesty, as you say, with both of us. Rubble is not bad: We can rubble for discounts at tuition fees, we can rub around mobility, to finance foreign visits et cetera pp. But not just! Perhaps, but not only rubble – because that is too little for an education and research policy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mrs Gehrer! I know, man didn't make it easy for you. This "man" I would write with two "n" how to write bowl with two "s". She was sent to the Weisenrat at the time. She was sent to the fire. She sent them to the fire at the study fees, and she sent them to the fire yesterday – I can only say it was a grotesque! You wonder if you can negotiate something without the invitation of Haider, because what came out yesterday was absolutely absurd. That was absurd, I tell you! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But in the case where you were sent into the fire, the bowl was true: He's been silent. But if it is now about education and research policy, it even speaks more than you do. He's talking about the future of youth, he's talking about technology billions, he's talking about priorities. You can see how strong the focus is in your series: The rows are shakers occupied as never before. I don't think there's a 5 percent of ÖVP delegates there. So these are the priorities. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That was badly appreciated!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: As a professor, you are a bad mathematician!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: 5 percent would be 2.5!]] – Perhaps I thought you were bigger than you are, that could be too, Mr. stupid! - All right, stop it! What we haven't known since today is that the motto "first think, then talk and last act" has no great tradition in this federal government, and this is striking. So let's just keep it fair and ask what's going on with the universities. No one argues that universities have been in a constant reform process for years. Well, he may be too little for some, but it is indisputable that there is him. Many learn only now to deal with the new UOG, the study reform is in venge, and what happens? At the same time, a new reform is being put on the table! In large enterprises or companies which you or the Federal Government always want to compare with universities that are to be structured more business-like, business-like, such a thing is not targeted, I believe. Indeed, it will not increase competitiveness by changing the objective, the organisational reform and the structure every two years. At least I think so. However, the content and question is decisive: Why this reform? – And there, I would say, intellectual honesty is asked on both sides. I remember the one – what was that? – Redout halls, reform dialogue – Mr. Chancellor and his vice chancellor invite. The argument that something has to happen at the universities was the really highly illuminating, but scientifically not exactly rocky-proof sentence: "So it can't go on!" And when you've asked why it can't continue like this, you've heard: Our universities are not competitive internationally. Schussel has meant that there is no German university among the best 50 in the world. That may be true, and my answer was: Call me one of the Austrian companies or a business company that is under the first 50 in the world. – I think he hasn't found one yet! So if you're already making comparisons, they're supposed to keep them too! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If then Mrs. Riess-Passer, the vice chancellor, here after a speech by me when I could no longer escape, the reform must be because there is no permanent posts in Stanford and MIT, I must say: I don't know what she read, what she heard – it's wrong anyway! It is wrong or at least intellectually unreasonable for Mrs. Vice-Chancellor to make such great comparisons: Stanford versus Klagenfurt, Massachusetts Institute of Technology versus Linz, ETH Zurich versus TU Vienna. So please: Is that intellectually fair? [[Intercession with the liberals.]] – I didn’t understand; that might be better anyway. You know, Skalicky, who always loves Bonmots very much, said: We do not differ from ETH Zurich at all. – And he is the rector of TU Vienna. To the question of why he does not differ, he answers: Well, we have about the same number of students, about the same number of teachers. We also have a lot of money, but: ETH Zurich has the amount in Swiss francs and we in Austrian schillings. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] So, of course, factor 8 is also an argument of intellectual fairness, which I miss at least with Mrs Vice-Chancellor. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Has this been the case since this legislative period?]] If you say that in this legislative period the science budget has increased by the factor 8 then it is not. You're right. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They're talking about "strength." There are, of course, also evaluations, even a very interesting one, although I now do not want to become the pioneer of eternal or persistent Pragmatization: It's certainly not a domain of youth. We have looked at this very carefully in the evaluation of large institutions in Austria, for example physics and biochemistry. There are excellent institutes with an almost pragmatized staff stand, and there are excellent institutes in which mobility is huge. There has been no trend between service rights – unlimited or temporary – to be crystallized at all. You'll find his chandeliers for everything if you want. But what surprises me is: If you want to increase the research budget as you promised, you should also think intellectually about who is actually researching at universities or non-university research institutions. It's not the machines we can buy for it. It's not the books either. It is also not the computer tomographs or what else you want to buy or let us buy, but it is ultimately people. When I investigate more, I need more researchers, and that is why these jobs need to be created. I also think it intellectually not bribery and even socially unreasonable, if you train people, train them to become specialists and train them, invest in them a lot of money and then say to them: Well, we only have professor posts in limited numbers. You're 35, you've been with us for six years, you've been with us for eight years – go! It is also intellectually unreasonable to say that they should go to the much praised free economy. Mrs Bundesminister, you know as well as I do that in the free economy and in our industry, the posts for researchers per 10,000 people in this sector are almost last-class in Europe. There is no way for these people to escape as easily into the free economy and industry as some industrialists imagine it – they do not imagine anyway, but at least it is claimed. That's the point. [[Call to the ÖVP: Where are they supposed to go in your opinion?]] – By opening up research sites once. Let us continue to remain intellectually fair! At the University of Innsbruck, certainly not the largest of the Austrian universities, but at least the third largest, we have now carefully researched all the places. If you – and I know, I come across the cross with someone here – really all academics who are researching at the university and take teachers, including 1,600 private employees in uncertain working conditions, mostly with a working relationship of two to three years duration, when you all count – and I consider them part of the university – Innsbruck comes up with a percentage of definitely worth 43 percent. If you don't calculate what I think is illegal, we'll admit this to 53 percent with an annual fluctuation rate of around 14 percent turn-over from academic staff. Show me large, really big companies, which at the level of leadership positions – and you will already admit to me that academics have such a good part – such a turnover of 14 percent as low – or in your language perhaps weak or indisputable. I would like to ask for another question: Faith Don't ask the universities to be the Hort of the cement industry! They always mean, there's the concretes sitting there, no one wants to change anything. I think the universities know, and I know just as well that they should be constantly reformed, and that there are also points that should be improved and reformed at the earliest – or at least soon. But it is about how to reform and how to discuss with the people. You, Mrs. Gehrer, announced a dialogue in December, and that was credible. However, the second dialogue took place three months later, took three hours, and a very important chapter, especially that of the exclusion, was left to fall at all, as many other chapters did, because one has lost one's right to serve – rightly, I would think – which can only be seen in the context of an exclusion. And you know, honestly, how you are – as I am, I hope – that there is no decision by a university or a university democratically elected body on the issue of dissemination! And in these bodies, not only are the boys, the new ones, just the students, but, as you know, also professors and older people, the Habilitites who were able to decide or decide to do so. And when it says: The universities want nothing more than to be distributed, and then they ask: Who are these universities?, then one is called the names of three rectors or five professors. I know as you do, that you should actually be able to distinguish whether "universities" are five or six people who want to tell you something or to tell you something, or whether universities are no longer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you believe in it, then you will be easier to discuss the protests. It was yesterday about "appropriate protests". It depends on how one is rooted in this system, how one is convinced of this system, how much one likes it. You know, if you like something, you fight for it too. If you're a little sluggish, you won't be evocative about dispensing. We're not the universities. And finally, again to the budget, to remain fair. It's gone up, you're right. That was fair. But you have, you yourself admitted, compared it to the worst years in the 1990s, I think, with 1993 and 1994. If you compare something with times when it was very bad, you could expect the next time that the Federal Government says that everything has become much better compared to the Thirty Years War. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] At this level, we should not go, but continue the dialogue at a higher level. I think it's possible. And: If you're in the fire, you'll have this sample.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2779	The next speaker is Mr Martin Graf. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e2804	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! During Mr Niederwieser's speech, I had the slight suspicion that he was secretly turning away from the constructive to the fundamental opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: My God!]] If you have raised here today the eternal question of what law enforcement or distributed universities are necessary, you should be able to answer this question yourself. Under your scientific spirit in the old coalition, the Social Democrats have already sought to achieve full justice and postulate it as a scientific goal. You can't discuss that away. In fact, we – at least three parties in this House – always agreed from this point of view that we are also pursuing this scientific objective. That, of course, one or another update is necessary, including a service reform, you know – and this is also known by the colleague Niederwieser and the colleague Grünewald. If one has listened to Mr Niederwieser's statement today, but also to Mr Grünewald's speech today, one has to find out that they have actually criticized the budget of 2000 or 2001. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] You have not been able to mention a single strong reason for criticism at the 2002 budget – except for false calculation examples. They mentioned the tuition fees – that was the budget of the previous year. You have to admit that. I know it burns you under the nails; you can't say that as an oppositionist often enough. But in fact, this is not necessarily a criticism of this budget. In the previous budget, in 2001 – but also in the 2000 budget – you yourself have here from the speaker's desk, but also in the Committee, always said that, if you were not able to accept the tuition fees, you could fully agree to the budget. Nothing else has been said in itself, because it has hardly changed anything in the sizes, in the framework conditions – with the exception of the future discussion about the disseminating of universities and about service law. But that's not the subject of this budget. It is therefore also necessary to note that the criticism of the opposition is very limited in terms of this 2002 budget, because it is fact that it is in absolute terms the highest budget ever written in this Second Republic. We must also take note of that. They have said that the right to serve may create fates. I can only tell you: Mr Niederweiser! At the university, too, you will have to be friends with the fact that when a service relationship is offered and you apply for a specific service relationship, you will not be prammatized immediately until the end. That temporary service conditions in tertiary education are quite common internationally, you cannot discuss this away. I think you should actually leave the church in the village. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Science will not go to the bottom just because we are now pulling the emergency brake in order not to use manoeuvring masses for a future university manager or a management body. It would be a fatal access to the future, we would not intervene today – you know that very well – and thus build everything up for the young scientists in the future, because then we could no longer employ any young scientists for five, ten or 15 years. That's the problem. There is always agreement in the analysis either in the Committee or in the general debate. The target is roughly the same. The way down there is bothering you. But that's quite the norm. And let us not take one thing as a government party or as a government as a whole: In the end, science policy is not made by the representatives of the State at the university, but by the politicians who, at the latest, must hold their heads for it in the elections. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not the standing representative who ultimately has to represent reforms, but always the policy. That's exactly what it's worth reforming, when you see that in the past it was always a simple way to go just the path to the ministry to "money!" to call, not innovative thoughts, not evaluation thoughts, then go back to the university as a rector, head of institute or professor, and say: I fought like a lion, but I didn't get any money from the woman or from the Minister. They're to blame, I can't help it. That was the old way, and we will modernise it with your help or without your help. You can choose it. It also means that there is too little money at universities. I look at the lecture directory only once at: "European Ethnology". [[Abg. May. Posch: Typical!]] Now I am not necessarily going to go about the freedom of science, but finally one will be allowed to question: What else is the taxpayer to pay? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: If the day is long!]] If a student wants to take a state examination there, he must attend a seminar called "Culture of Political Resistance". [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Yes, and?]] The Explanatory Notes to the CCC Nomenclature to the CCC Nomenclature to be published in the Official The art of the hour is resistance. - That's what the program motto is. – It continues: The fact that, thanks to ÖVP's step-by-step holding function with the FPÖ, a proven racist and xenophobic party, as well as especially anti-art party with right-wing populist tendencies, has led to a broad protest and resistance movement in Austria and especially in Vienna. [[Abg. May. Saviour: Incredible!]] On the content of the course: The course will cover the width and creativity of this culture of resistance, collect materials from the scene and review the thesis of resistance as a new folk culture. responsibilities of the course: The participants have to do small research on the new culture of resistance and present contributions by individual cultural creators and cultural initiatives. [[Abg. May. Saviour: Incredible! Diplomated demonstrators will be there...!]] [[Abg. Oils: What are you quoting? Show this!]] The speaker is Mr Dieter Schrage, who made 13 remarks on resistance and popular culture. I don't mind if he's researching there. But then he should do this with his private money or money, not with state resources! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To the question of a student, which is to calculate and collect fabric, he was told: To give you a shine for this exam, you must have visited three FPÖ-critical demonstrations. [[Abg. Boy: These are methods!]] [[Abg. May. Saviour: Incredible!]] [[Abg. Swimmlein: Show this!]] I shall now tell you one thing at this point – I will give it to you, colleague. –: [[Abg. Oils: Show this!]] If an extra-parliamentary opposition at the university is to be financed with tax money, this will stretch over the arch of scientific freedom! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And I'm saying something about it: It's also cowardly! And you know that, too, Mr Niederweiser. Mr. Schrage is not an unknown person. He's in the state favor: In Bank Austria, he's Kustos. He is also – you can read what he is – in the Ludwig Foundation and everywhere he is involved. He is taking the tax money as a salary, but then he is demonstrating against his breadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbreadbread in the most perfect way I have experienced in this Second Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3019	Please, Mr. Deputies! I am against the fact that an outsider is called "perfid". Please moderate the language!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3034	Mr President. I did not call Mr Schrage a perfid, but I have called the way in which his demonstration culture is the perfidest one there is. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And I won't let that happen either! I think that really overshadows every bow we've ever seen here. And I'll tell you: It is cowardly to proceed in this way! Mr Schrage is an old 68's and still has been in physical integrity for the 68's ideals. That was still brave. Today it is enough for him – and that is the worst! – perhaps three times to get a certificate of study, for which you may even receive a scholarship. That's cowardly, and that's the last thing I've ever seen! This requires reform and evaluation, because that is not all right. And you know that, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3098	I reject the accusation "perfide". I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take care of a language which we have done in this House so far! Mrs Schasching is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3123	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Graf, I would like to stress to all those who listen to us, especially those who have listened to you: Science and research in Austria are free and should continue to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Mr Jung and Mr Wenitsch.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] According to the motto "You don't bite your hand that feeds one" you won't force our scientists and our researchers into your knees and force them to teach what you like. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: fabricating leaflets!]] I listened very excitedly to Mr Wolfmayr's speech, which, among other things, also quoted the "power of language". I hope you order this brochure. She has also shown some nice lots, rubbleless; in this sense, I would like to hand over a very special lot to the Federal Minister: the "free" of the young generation. Maybe you like it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[The speaker presented a lot to the Federal Minister Gehrer, who is sitting on the government bank.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You learn this at the university!]] To the general memory: The blue-black government has undertaken to make education one of its priorities. Investing in education and science is one of the most important factors for Austria's future prospects, was announced in the government agreement between Blue and Black. So far, we Social Democrats with you are quite of an opinion. But unfortunately: Since the time the Federal Minister Gehrer has subordinated herself to the zero deficit, all the good intentions to invest in education have been forgotten again. The increase in the education budget of a total of one percent since 1999, Mrs. Federal Minister, speaks for herself! I have to tell you: Their education policy takes place exclusively in the Ministry of Finance and the FPÖ in the person of Mr. Finanzminister Grasser. What initiatives have you taken, which are not savings and post-reduction initiatives? What did you think about actual educational reforms for schools? – You seem to have only one pipe rod law on educational agreements on the topic of "edagogic initiative". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] While the SPÖ wants to bring more democracy to school and with appropriate applications – listen carefully, you always say we don't bring any ideas! – called for an extension of student co-determination and co-decision rights, legal conservative representatives of the ruling parties reflect on the reintroduction of the mental pipe rod in school. On the other hand, we also keep our trust! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: such a fool!]] This is not only pre-preached, but it also contradicts all scientific findings and, above all, the experiences of many Austrian educators in the exercise of their profession. More clearly than with the bill on the educational agreements, it is not possible to manifest the oppositeness of two totally contrary world images at all. The SPÖ therefore rejects these educational agreements. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I'm afraid you wrote it yourself!]] As in other areas of politics, the authoritarian thinking of the Freedom Party is driving the FPÖ ministers ahead. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Have you written down all this yourself?]] A wonderful example of freedom of movement for teachers was presented to the Austrians last night in the programme "The Subject". [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why do you read all this down? Who wrote you that?]] We have heard what Mrs. Vice-Chancellor and your former party observer have already told you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The swam has written this to you? Is that true? That's embarrassing!]] What makes me particularly indignant is that the "simple party member" meant that the teachers who are willing to criticize the government must lay the craftsmanship in this respect, and at last have to show a flag in the government. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't read yourself!]] I would like to stress this sentence, ladies and gentlemen, here in particular: Let someone put the craft. – What does that mean? One threatens with disciplinary procedures, and so it may not be, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I'm afraid you wrote it all down yourself! There is free speech in Parliament!]] The Austrian teachers should be motivated, they should also make young people fit for society and not be constantly discouraged by you in the targeted development of conversation culture, team capacity and conflict management strategies. Another aspect in this context is the maximum number of students, because the LDG, as is now the case with the saving of 2 118 compulsory school teachers next year – this is now finally also on the table; there you can no longer hide behind possible numbers, Mrs. Federal Minister – means de facto that the maximum number of students will rise and will not fall. I wonder, Do you know a seminar, a training event in the private sector, in which content is produced in the interactive procedure, in which the group size exceeds 30? – I just can’t imagine you working with more than 15 people in a group during training. Take a look at everyday school in an HTL: Up to 36 students sit there in a class to prepare for future tasks. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't know that! You can't know the operation in an HTL! I know him! I know what that is!]] Please go, Mr. Westenthaler! "Mr. Minus 10 percent" in Simmering – a colleague has already told you so wonderfully today – let me present it in peace! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Especially the HTL students would have deserved smaller group sizes to be able to prepare for their tasks. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Schwemlein wrote her a speech! Professor Schwemlein! A man who's as his name is!]] If knowledge transfer can take place there at the highest educational level, you must also show us, Mrs. Minister, as an ex-teacher. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank God is the speech out!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, I do not want to point out that Mr Schweitzer, in particular, started last week to refer to a colleague who took place in the gallery with her group of students. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Lamperl saves you now!]] It came with an integration class. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] At the time, he meant that this was a very positive student-teacher-ratio in Austria. The fact that this is a class of integration with children with severe disabilities is that there is a very special need for additional teachers and caregivers, that of course other companions must also provide assistance so that these students can visit the High House at all to listen to make political education viable, he has not thought about it and has here carried out his political polemics on the back of these students. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You said that freely now!]] But, Mrs Minister, I would also like to ask you: What solutions do you offer for our school system if the money is already withdrawn? Maybe there are other solutions for you. I think your strategy is: Penalties in and teachers out! Come with the spiritual pipe rod! – as I have already done. Instead of reducing the maximum number of students, reduce the number of teachers. [[Abg. Young: Tell us how we can make up for your debts without paying!]] – I like to do a private body with you outside, but let me talk to you now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I wonder if you, Mrs Federal Minister, can be expected in the future. I also ask you, on behalf of the teachers of Austria, whether you are actually behind the teachers to protect them from this FPÖ. Is it expected that in the future you will be able to perform your pedagogical skills again so that you can talk about democratization in the student representation? Is it to be expected that you will not steal from your responsibilities in the case of compulsory teacher posts, bearing in mind the responsibilities of the countries? Is it expected that under your leadership education policy will no longer remain the biggest weakness of this government? Not only the Social Democracy expects answers, Mrs. Federal Minister, but also the students and teachers of Austria. Don't be silent, Mrs. Federal Minister! If you keep silent, that's enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3452	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3474	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Gehrer has previously explained in her statement what the government is doing. The government's task must be to reduce debt and not increase indebtedness. It is precisely this principle that the Minister for Budgetary Control has taken into account. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In particular, the government was aware that there must be an end to debt-making on the back of our youth, that, especially in the important areas, proper emphasis must be placed on the important areas, accents that are indicative and forward-looking for us, such as in the field of education, the necessary structural reforms. Of course, we know – we have heard this often enough in the last few days – that the opposition is always only talking about "dead saving", that it has not yet considered or apparently refused the fact that the area of education accounts for 13.72 percent of the total budget, so that it is very likely that a focus has been placed here. It is also thanks to our Minister Gehrer that she has put the priorities in the right areas in time, namely in the IT field and in the research field. I should just like to point out that we have been focusing on computer training for years in particular in the field of vocational training. I can also refer to the computer billions, which enables us to improve the IT equipment in schools, and which also enables teachers to train adequately on the IT field on the basis of this focus. It is not enough, and it is not enough to deny Mrs Gehrer's educational policy, because it is becoming unbelievable. I don't think we can get along with general criticism in any way, nor with the constant fear of both teachers and students. Concepts and suggestions for improvement are needed! I should like to remind you that, particularly in the field of education, the focus in the technology sector can also be included in figures. I am thinking of the school graduates in the IT field, which is now in the hands of 20 000 students. But already in planning is a number of 30 000 students in 2003. This can already be predicted. The number of university graduates and university graduates will also quadruple by 2003; at present there are 850 graduates. There is a proper focus on technology as well; any concentration in the IT sector can simply be an advantage in international competition. Especially in this concentration, the technical universities play a central role. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very competent!]] We know that scientific and economic enterprises are located in the vicinity of specialist universities and vice versa. We also know that there is only a guarantee of future jobs if there is a interaction between education and the economy. This, I believe, is important components that we need to see, which we must also take into account in our education concept. Of course, structural reforms, already mentioned today, are also necessary in both education and university. Last week, we discussed intensively the law of the State Teacher Service, which represents a huge quantum leap for the field of education, for the field of teachers. [[Abg. Shasching: But return, not forward!]] We know that this will increase flexibility, and we also know that quality can be improved even further by setting priorities. This makes it possible to address the individual needs of both the teacher and the student. I believe that education policy cannot simply be reduced to discussions on allowances or deletions. It would be far too easy to reduce education to this level. I think it is important to see where the challenges of the future lie and where, in this respect, the priorities in the field of education as well as in education must be met. Our Federal Government has recognised this and has also set the right priorities in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3556	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. The watch is gladly set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3577	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to take a brief look at the speech by Mr Graf, who here quoted and criticized a summer semester of 2001, that under the title "Culture of Political Resistance" in European Ethnology, what is happening in Austria and last year happened in Austria. [[Abg. Swimmling: Don't pay off!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Have you also signed up?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bastling airstrips, or what?]] Mr Graf said: Ethnology is not only what happens to foreign peoples somewhere in Africa, but it is now in a modern understanding very well what happens to folk culture – and that is not only folklore – also in Austria. [[Abg. Oils: Baströckchen!]] Look at that, it can only be fine! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But probably it was so that he felt that at the universities only what was accepted of him or the liberal or the government can be taught. Ladies and gentlemen! In no way can we share this understanding of teaching. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you can make it! I don't need a lecture.]] This understanding of teaching is one that probably means "empty" – with double-e – and not "teaching" with "eh". In no way can we join this understanding! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But now to the point I wanted to discuss with Mrs Gehrer. I would like an answer from her. This is an area which for weeks has been in a tumult between the Foreign Minister or the Foreign Office and your ministry, namely the subject of study fees for students from developing countries. Maybe I can take a brief look at the strange story. Originally, in a first version of the budget accompanying law, the study contribution was simply adopted for students from developing countries, i.e. not even requested. The law is then no longer a decree, but at one time a refund, where it is read, is intended, Mrs Minister, to determine by regulation those countries where the student's tuition fee can be refunded. It is now the case that this regulation should come out now, but this doubling is still taking place. In fact, the Foreign Minister, as she told us in the budget request, wants to do so and is committed to ensuring that students from all developing countries remain free of tuition fees. She also said that the final decision had not yet been approved. What I hear is that now it is about you wanting to have as few countries as possible, preferably only the eight or nine priority countries, but by no means the more than ten other cooperation countries with which Austria has close relations. There is another dispute as to whether or not Burkina Faso or Zimbabwe are present. They want as few countries as possible. This is an approach that I must call uncertain to the students. What does it mean if you can define it by regulation? – This means that perhaps next year the regulation will look different and other countries will be "ordered". What are these students who can still rely on to study in a foreign country, in Austria? – They cannot trust in their study planning that they may no longer need to pay the study fee next year. Something else: In the Committee on Budgets, you answered the request of a colleague from me: Well, there are also the rich who have enough to be freed from this study fee or are refunded! What you're doing, though, if you want to remove the study fee only for a few countries, means that only the rich can come from countries that are very poor and have a very low gross national product, but which are not a priority country of Austrian development cooperation, then only the elites can come. Do you understand this in education policy for people from poor countries: that only the rich come from those countries that do not belong to the Austrian priority countries? This, Mrs Minister, cannot be the goal of Austrian development cooperation and development policy! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Shashing.]] Another point: Now it is no longer about exemption from the tuition fees, but about the refund. The law states: They are paid first and then, four weeks later, refunded. But there will no longer be a legal claim on it. What does that mean? Students come to Austria, pay 10,000 S – already difficult enough anyway – and then they may find out three, four, five weeks later that for some reason, perhaps because the gross national product in their home country has suddenly increased, or perhaps the family deserves a little too much – in which already few they have – these 10,000 S are not refunded. But these students have assumed that this will be the case. It also affects grant holders who receive scholarships from Austrian, state or church institutions. What does that mean for these students? They have a study place, come to Austria, and then they'll be told: No, I'm sorry, you have no legal claim! We said you'd get the fee refunded, but maybe get it. Don't you! - Then what are they doing? Do they have to quit their studies? Do they have to try to study in Germany or in another country? What does this mean for the life planning of these students? Mrs. Minister! You have not answered what that means and why you are not really in favour of the fact that, as the OECD, the OECD Development Committee says, students from developing countries should be exempt from the study fees! There's another interesting aspect. To date, Austria has always reported and continues to do the share of study costs of students from developing countries. This has been criticised by the OECD and also by us years ago, but it is still so; it has improved somewhat, but in principle it is still so. But now you do not comply with OECD directives! Mrs. Minister! That is – I would say now – spoken of by the Federal Government with double tongue, and we cannot accept that! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Muttons]] This means that young people who cannot go to universities in their own country who have labored to convince their families – and you know just as well as I do that this is even more difficult for young women than for men – to go abroad, to Austria, to study there in order to get a good education, to then go back to their home country and to contribute to the further development of this country, because of this still-non-regulation, due to the restitution and non-liberation in question from a few countries. Mrs. Minister! I very much want you to be ready to change this situation, and I therefore make the following request.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3722	Mr Kurzmann is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. I'm still wearing: The motion for a resolution, which has just been tabled by the previous speaker, namely the motion for a resolution by Mrs Grünewald, friends and friends, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Please, Mr Kurzmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3749	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! This year, as well as other budgetary bodies, the approaches of the cultural budget are also marked by constraints. It is now necessary to reorganise the state budget in a sustainable way. However, for me and my group, there is no doubt that more money needs to be used for culture next year so that Austria does not endanger its reputation in Europe and the world. However, I would also like to refer to false statements made by some opposition speakers who claimed that many cultural artists would turn their backs on Austria or even emigrate. Ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who knows the reality knows that the pure propaganda grass that lacks any real foundation. For example, Mrs. Jelinek, who, at the start of the Blue-Black Government, still prohibited the performance of her pieces, gave up this blockade. I take that from a report from the APA of 6. March of this year, where she said: "The blockade was a sign. Now she has lost her mind and is only plausible." So you see, as quickly as the return to normality goes. It has been done faster than perhaps some speakers of the opposition love. The government, ladies and gentlemen, has a very liberal cultural policy. Or do you believe that some artists who have recently protested today, for reasons of opportunity, follow the motto of the Roman Emperor Vespasian, who once said: "pecunia non olet!" – "Money doesn't smell!" –? The well-known Graz sociologist and philosopher – well, perhaps you are right, Mr. colleague – Professor Karl Acham described this situation very well last year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scatter]] In the "standard" in July, he literally carried out the following – I would like to remind you of this quote –: ==References====External links== Februaryly announced parole,This government must leave – but immediately!, that is, in view of the continued government participation of FPÖ, several age cohorts of Austrian ‘cultural creators’ have been affected by speechlessness." He goes on to say: "In a country where, in particular, state art prizewinners liked to give thanks to assembled ministers who always sounded like they were dealing with the farewell speech of a resistance fighter, the not deed and the check, but the knit, as state art prizewinners, they also demonstrated the state art of the winners: Each artistic bite had at the same time to confirm with every bitten politician the tolerance of the system, which could be enjoyed. But now," continues Acham, "the expressivity of containers largely replaces the political analysis of critical intelligence." - That's Karl Acham. I don't think there's anything to add to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3812	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. Your speaking time is adjusted to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3834	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In my view, the scientific budget 2002 has three serious budgetary cuts. One is the tuition fees. Mrs Lunacek has already pointed out this injustice among students from developing countries. They supported and introduced them with all kinds of arguments. You said that the tuition fees would reduce the duration of the studies, with two thirds of all students working next to the study. You have spoken of more quality through study fees, in reality you use most of them for stopping budget holes. They have said that the performance of the students would rise, in reality, the academic rate in Austria is not high anyway, and tuition fees will add to this effect. Study fees will mainly create and strengthen a social numerus clausus in several children. It's a joke you've been talking about that you've been trying to cancel tuition fees by putting a loan model in view. What you use for the budget itself, that is to say, not to make debts, you have meant social weaknesses, you want to believe that you are socially weak! This is white cynicism! You have – you can't repeat it often enough – on 1. March 2000 said: It is not my concern to introduce tuition fees for basic training. I mean, it's the tax payer's job to pay the educational offers in Austria from the folk school to the doctorate! – I have always felt that you are behind this statement because it was not just a sentence, but because it was gestus Your conviction was the way I've met you before. This is your fall of sin! They have been almost literally taken here by Federal Chancellor Schüssel and Minister Bartenstein to the bank. There has been 31 billion schilling in the budget execution of last year. 31 billion schilling! Because of a few million, 100 million schillings, you have sold your principles, you have thrown your conviction overboard, just as Mr Khol, the president of the club, has made a different way of protecting the Constitution. You know very well that you have become unfaithful here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second point concerns service law. It will no longer surprise you that your policy has at present led to numerous protests at the universities. 4000 strikers have surprised you in your home country. Hörsaalboykott at the Human and Social Sciences of the University of Vienna, also in Linz, events have failed. Now the art universities say: "This is our death!"to read in today's "Kurier". This is a very precarious situation. In reality, this ominous introduction of the tuition fees is the first step towards restricting or abolishing free university access, and now comes this great uncertainty of university teachers through your proposals regarding a new service right. 90 percent of teachers at the University of Innsbruck have opposed the introduction of a new service law, more than 80 percent against the exclusion of universities. This is not a question of reasonable contractual relations, as you have said today, but, in reality, large parts of middle construction are at risk of their professional existence, with no mention being made of the introduction of employee law being cheaper. Keywords: Finishing, keyword: Pension reserves, keyword: more expensive collective contracts for those employees who work in particularly sought-after subjects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In reality, your actions and the introduction of global budgets leave the end of free access to higher education in Austria afraid, because the universities of global budgets will only be accepted if the courses to be financed are quotaed. That's perfectly clear. There are therefore considerable additional costs. They have adopted the task and the thesis that higher education is a key task of government. There are democratic concerns, the loss of political governance mechanisms. There are problems with student participation. All of this is really not a fame sheet. You have also continued your policy in the field of research. We are far away from the cost of research and development of 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product, which you have announced by yourself, by 2005 at the latest. That would be about 70 billion schilling a year. We're far away from that. In research, Ebbe is actually in the cash register. The savings rate that you ordered from schools reduces 3 700 teachers' posts, and for staff expenditure you have estimated the same amount as in 2001, but this is actually a reduction due to structural effects such as age, salary increases, and this will necessarily have a negative impact on study and care provision. They are increasingly fleeing in common places. They're always talking about security of the future. They're talking about structural reforms. They're talking about mobility. They are talking about securing the future of youth. The truth, however, is another one, a very sad one, and therefore you will certainly understand that we will not give this budget our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3888	The next speaker was Mr Leiner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3910	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Mag. Posch, just the opposite of what you said, shows up in medical studies. It is offered a very modern, new, very open and very forward-looking study, now, at the time of our Minister. I would like to congratulate her on this. It has created the conditions we have been waiting for for a very long time, it has begun to tackle this issue and we can expect much better medical education in the future. We'll take care of it too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We certainly first have to learn post-promotionally, which is already involved during the course of our studies. We're leaving the previous system, which has its roots in the 19th century. In the 19th century, there was a practical education in small groups and problem-oriented learning. We must not forget, of course, that there are still a number of problems to be discussed in all of these reforms. I believe that there are still a few things missing in the curriculum, Mrs Minister, but – I have said that for the last time – I can imagine that this will still be taken into account. Nutritional medicine should perhaps still find its place in the curriculum, as well as psychosomatic medicine, because the psyche also plays a major role; think only of psychosomatic diseases. It is gratifying that palliative medicine or also ethics in medicine is included in this curriculum. Biotechnology and all the interdisciplinary links with the various discussion forums are offered. I think this is a very good solution. What you have to consider and what the students always bring to mind is the human resources. I would just like to say that in future those professors, lecturers or habilitators who work outside the university institutions can certainly be used much more and should also be used more than before. They should actually comply with their vocation to be a teacher. You have already provided for the premises and the financial provision, Mrs Minister. That is why we can say: There are really very favourable and good conditions for studying medicine. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3959	The next speaker was Mr Faul. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e3980	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer said in his speech at least one sentence with a very high level of truth. If he has been pragmatized with the remark that anyone who has given of himself something stupid or stumptuous somewhere in Austria should have also meant himself, then at least I do not want to contradict him in it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I didn't say that at all!]] - You said that! Mrs. Minister! A word for last night's television broadcast – one, as I believe, press conference of FPÖ under your participation, Mrs Minister! As always in such important matters, your Federal Party president was on diving station! [[Abg. Großruck: Take care of your own!]] Since yesterday, Mrs. Minister, you will not be able to blame us again and again for our concerns about the threat of teacher reduction as a panic and apprehension, for you said yesterday in your second speech yourself that it would not go into service without painful cuts and interventions. They have thus confirmed our fears that, as in other public areas, there will also be massive job losses for teachers. That is also why the demands of your coalition partner and the members of your group in the teaching committee do not help us to report about new attitudes and new posts of service – for example in Lower Austria – as Mrs Brinek did. Mrs. Minister! Again and again, a clear example is needed to bring to your attention the really sad reality of the implementation of the new Landeslehrer Service Law. For this reason I bring you a new and calculated example of my location in the Styria, where at a class level of 40 classes the class board losses and the ordinations with 40 or 26 hours exactly the hours that three teachers would need at my school. Mrs. Minister! It is not young teachers, it is not contract staff, as you mean, and as the colleagues from the FPÖ have said, who do not yet have a right to an adequate employment, and who could well be accommodated in other professional groups, but it is the teacher between 30 and 40 years of age. They have set themselves up for the training of their profession, and they have ultimately exercised the profession they have chosen for more than ten years. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why don't you use the early retirement model?]] - Wait a minute, I'll tell you right now, Karli! They have settled at their school locations, as opposed to you. They built their homes there and founded their families. Where are we going to do this, Mrs. Minister? In my district, we won't accommodate them. In the country of Styria, we will not accommodate them either, and whether the neighbouring states can welcome these colleagues, I ask that and I dare to doubt very much in view of these structural measures for Austria as a whole. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister! Perhaps we will bring these teachers to Germany to the conservative states, where, due to the long-standing lack of education policy of conservative education ministers today, there is acute lack of teachers. Mrs. Minister! The question remains open: Have the young teachers at our schools deserved this? Another question: Did the students at our schools deserve to be taken away from them by the young teachers who work with a lot of personal commitment, especially in the areas where young teachers are particularly in demand, such as in the fields of sports, computer technology and art education? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Schweitzer! The older colleagues will be: Their offer of early retirement is too unattractive, and on the other hand, teachers in mid-fifties still feel fit enough to practice their profession. You don't understand, either, that you want to raise the pension age for your government and send it to pension earlier on with uneven models. They know of the colleagues in the postal and railway sectors and, above all, of the national officials in the public sector, what personal concern it creates to be sent to an early retirement model at the creative age of mid-fifties. You are also afraid that you will see models similar to those of the post office and the train, that the teacher will have to stay at his phone until noon in the service until noon in order to be classified for a possible representation and supply at a school. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! These are the real traps in the new Teacher Service Act. You can not let the pragmatized teachers go away so easily, but you can divide them into these three working hours blocks flexibly. Minister! In your imagination, but especially in the negative imagination of the partner FPÖ, you may still think a lot of horror. Mrs. Minister! We will observe the negative growth in the sense of our fellow Members. We will convince them to reject a government that is excessive against the teachers in Austria and that stands for the reduction of education in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4065	The next speaker was Mr Sevignani. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4086	Mr President. Minister! High house! Education is the cultural instrument for equal opportunities, freedom and participation in democratic life. [[Abg. Shasching: So it's important to everyone, isn't it?]] In particular, the State must ensure that the basic right to education is met through a wide range of high-qualified educational institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to keep our high-quality, high-quality education system – and that is what we want, we stand! – we need to adapt this through structural measures for the future. In compulsory education, planning posts are no longer re-occupied. The countries are to decide on the specific distribution. Service posts are no longer re-occupied in the AHS and BHS areas. Natural departures and an attractive early retirement model avoid the dismissals of teachers. The structural effect of the measures in the field of teachers is 2 per cent in the budget. Starting in autumn 2001, 40 classes will be set up with a new range of information technology. There are efforts to force BHS and professional universities to create. It does not make sense to constantly increase the planning positions in the number of students – my colleague Charly Schweitzer has already pointed this out. There are a lot of teachers who are pragmatic but don't have to keep an hour. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This accusation is not to be made to the Minister, but, if at all, to the countries and to their national council presidents who are responsible for it. With the computer billions, we have set an important focus and introduced numerous performance-oriented components in teacher remuneration. Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition spreads untruths, half-truths, and it presents no own ideas. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] She is not sure about teachers, parents and students. Mr Faul! Straight You just did the same thing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The reputation of our schools is excellent at home and abroad, as is the work of our colleagues. [[Abg. Dr. Antoni: That's just what you see!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: (in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Antoni) That's incredible!]] But those teachers who now insecure children and parents and use them as a means of printing may remember that panic may also harm them and the reputation of their school. [[Abg. Shasching: To them you have to put the craft, Mrs. Riess-Passer has said!]] The education budget will be expanded, and there will be no less project work in the coming school year, no more lessons, no more hiking day. [[Call the SPÖ: You will know!]] The quality of education does not depend solely on increasing use of resources. Minister! We fully support this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4197	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. Your speaking time is adjusted to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4218	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! It's true: There is uncertainty in the school sector, namely with teachers, parents and students. There are also reasons for this, and these are in savings, in the rationalization and in the keyword and fashion word "structural adjustment". One of the most burning topics in the field of education is probably the question of how you want to meet the enormous intrusion of students to the middle and higher schools. Mrs. Minister! In the Budget Committee you have answered a similar question that not everyone or everyone should go to a vocational school. We should all give assistance to argue and influence the population. Mrs. Minister! I give you the right if you say that not everyone or anyone can go to a higher vocational school, but with the influence this is already a difficult thing. Nothing is done that would bring the right students to the right school. For example, "vocational orientation" would be the keyword. But what does vocational orientation mean? – Vocational orientation would mean training for teachers and more units of value for schools. But I wonder, Why is nothing happening in this sector? Why are no new projects started? Why are those who have given it strangled or ended? I already hear the argument that the autonomy of the school was asked there. But I mean, Not the autonomy of the school is in demand, but the Minister of Education is required! I believe that this "new government" cannot mean that this non-competence being is a total abolition of competence, because then one could really abolish the Ministry of Education just as much as the Ministry of Science. The area of culture could also be left out. If it always says: We are not responsible, the schools have to organize this themselves, the universities have to organize it themselves!, then I wonder: Then what is the Ministry of Education for? That can't be! I think it is about concepts, in particular social policy concepts. Only in this way can young people be helped to interact with young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also problematic, ladies and gentlemen, that 8 per cent of a year of compulsory schooling will not receive further training. So-called dropouts, which cannot withstand the pressure of the overcrowded first classes, are difficult or hardly any further training possibilities in most cases. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! They often speak of averages in the upper and lower levels and that our averages are below those of the OECD. – I think we should be proud of it, but not in the direction that we adapt to our projects, so to speak, but we should ensure that the others can adapt to our circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! They speak of average numbers, but they do not speak of the numbers in the first classes, for example the middle and higher schools, and of how many or how few then remain in the second classes. This is not so because the students who leave are stupid, no, that's because they often don't create the overcrowded first class. There, students from all school types are mixed together. Some of them come from far away, are partly self-service providers at 14 or 15 years, or they get up at 4 o'clock in the morning and only come home at 7 o'clock in the evening, because the train is now also structurally adjusted. Then it says that such students have no problems. I think there is a lack of action, and that has nothing to do with school autonomy. In the clear text, this way you have taken would be called social selection, early end of schooling, very high dropout rates, frequent rehearsing of the students and huge amount of private education. I believe that, in view of these circumstances, parents and teachers are rightly outraged. But maybe you should just listen to your commander from Carinthia, who says: Everything back, course changed, politics with heart is in demand! – Only: Obviously your heart does not turn to the left, so I ask you to make politics for the people and for the youth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Two points on culture: Mrs. Minister! A picture of dubious origin has again appeared in the Leopold Collection. Obviously, according to a "standard" report, it comes from the possession of a Jewish citizen. Mrs. Minister! As we all know, the image of Austria suffers considerably from the recurring anti-Semitic statements of certain politicians. It should also be in your interest not to do more damage, and I therefore believe that we should finally make it clear. There are supposed to be more pictures, so at least the "standard" suspects. A second point: The Kunsthistorische Museum, which, as a more conservative newspaper writes, has been remarkably handcuffed by politics in recent years, seems to be very well off with its ability to do justice. Cooperations are constantly being established and sponsors are also found, and there is no fear of contact between the population and this museum. There are fears of contact, however, as far as contemporary culture is concerned, so I think it is time to invest more in projects and museums dealing with modern art. This would be quite in the sense of your Styrian party colleague, the Styrian Cultural Land Councillor Gerhard Hirschmann, who, as he says, is wildly determined not to bring the traditional cultural tankers over the rounds and at the same time let the rest die away. I think it is dangerous to see the museums, which deal with modern art, just jump into the water and then see if they can swim or just go down. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4309	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4331	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. "Oberlehrer" Schasching has recently been here at the speaker's desk and has started her speech with the statement that the authoritarian government and the coalition parties are going over it. It was similar, wasn't it? [[Abg. Shasching: I can quote it exactly if you want it!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You then revealed your democratic maturity in an intervening call. When our clubman thought of you with an intermediate call, you said: Let me put it in peace! You said that! [[Abg. Shasching: Yes!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Is that bad?]] You know, a debate is a little bit of a speech and a contradiction. It should at least be like that. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But you did not like to be interrupted in your speech. You and your teachers play democracy in a different form, in that you incite the teachers with a questionnaire action in which you call against all the interests of the service provider to the boycott. [[Abg. Shasching: That's really stimulating!]] Today, 2nd. April, this action you have initiated. There it says: no activities for schoolbook actions, no conversations with parents, no school-related events, no school events, no teacher education, boycott of the language weeks, boycott of the project weeks, boycott of the sports weeks. [[Abg. Shasching: Do you think so?]] That's your initiative, that's your democracy game! [[Abg. Shasching: Democracy is not a game!]] I wish that your survey – perhaps you already know the values – of what it is worth, namely, a belly stain. That is how I think your colleague has expressed himself today. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: But this is very "democratic"!]] I will now come to the topic of sport. Mrs. Federal Minister! As part of the "Born to move" action, students were tested for their fitness. To a question to the sports scientist Dr. Roland Werthner – this article was published a few days ago – he answered the question: "What about the sports behaviour and the health of our children" – I quote – is: "In terms of condition, i.e. in terms of strength and endurance, I am very disappointed. The results of classical exercise skills such as running, jumping or swimming are also discouraging." Then Dr. Werther is asked: "Where are our children in the European comparison?" To this he literally answers: "Then, in the truest sense of the word, they followed." - Quote. Mrs. Federal Minister! I have repeatedly referred to it, I know that you cannot change it from one day to the next, but it is the day-to-day movement, especially in the field of compulsory schooling, and I very much ask you to continue working on this sector. Mrs. Federal Minister! At our universities there is also a need for action in the sector of well-organized university sports. The partial autonomy has had a negative effect, and it is only right that it will bring full autonomy with it that universities no longer give the sporty behaviour of their listeners the meaning that has so far been possible. I believe that there is a need for a legal regulation. On the subject of laws relating to universities: Mr Niederweiser has revealed to us an eight-point programme; he has also made it available to us in the form of a request. Dr. Niederwieser, this is a billing with your past, and I ask you in this context: What has prevented you from deciding to secure research funding for five years? What has prevented you from introducing the recognition of higher education at higher education level? What has prevented you from introducing the promotion of education savings according to the model of building savings?, and so on and so on. – This is a billing with your past! In this context, I would like to quote your party colleagues, Dr. Strahammer, who made the following demands for university reform: "universities need their own legal personality, performance contracts, priority setting at universities, management instead of administration, private service and global budgets." Go to your colleague Strahammer, he'll tell you what our universities could do! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4459	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4480	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to deal with the comments made by my previous speaker, Mr Grollitsch, very briefly. I think there is currently no one in the field of education who does not protest against this policy: Teachers protest, students protest, parents protest, university personnel protest, students protest, professors protest. I don't think there's anyone who'd be able to raise up all these people as you put it. I think the black and blue education policy is it that animateds these people to protest, and I do not think that you will be able to "put the craft" of all these groups, as the former party leader of the liberals has said, because they protest, as I mean, right. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and the ÖVP! You promise to give priority to education with your policy and with this budget. But instead of giving priority, there is a lot of failures, which lead to a reduction in the quality and waste of money and insecure people. Failure number one: You, Mrs. Federal Minister, are insecure the vocational schools, the economy, the apprentices and the teachers. Example: There are new modern professions which have been developed by the social partners and ordered by the Minister for Economic Affairs, and I ask you: Where are the framework curriculums for this? Where are the Framework Plans for Vocational Schools? There are new professions, for example, the cutting-edge technician, the prefabricated house builder, new electrical professions – but there are no curriculums for this. Although there are apprentices who are trained in these professions who attend the vocational school, there are no curriculums for it, and this has not been done for about a year. As I said, since the beginning of this school year, the apprentices have attended vocational schools, but the curriculum is missing. You need to order her, Mrs. Minister. Only: You don't! What's going on? – Vocational schools must improvise because there is no framework curriculum for pupils. Your educational savings budget is already so far away that not only the money, but also the curriculums are saved, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You are head of the Ministry of the Future of our Republic! I ask you: Should instruction be given to our apprentices without a curriculum in the future? – Look Please, you're going a little further! We've got you for that! Failure number two: Mrs. Federal Minister! In an answer to a question, you have proudly pointed out that you offer schools opportunities to order the books via the Internet, allowing them to do so faster, cheaper, easier and with less bureaucratic effort. How does the practice look? – Instead of slowing down, it is more expensive, rather than more complicated, and instead of less bureaucracy, there is more administrative burden and sweating beads for teachers who strive. A director of a vocational school wrote you – you know the letter safely – a few weeks ago under the subject: "Ordering school books over the Internet, a sad experience!" The following: "When creating the classes, I almost always received empty fields instead of the intended comboer for the school book profile and the limit. I couldn't delete an incorrectly entered class despite several attempts, even the change in the school level was not possible. The programme refused any change." Then it goes on to say: "After really many unsuccessful attempts on four different computers, over three different providers, after a total effort of about 15 hours in school and private time, I gave it up." The end of the letter is: "At the end of the day, I would like to say personally that the school book action has probably been beautifully and elaborately propagated, but has nothing to do with administrative simplification, but has nothing to do with it. We went back to the paper form. Fill out a maximum of 2 hours, about 15 hours on the Internet." That means the Ministry of the Future! That is what your future policy looks like, Mrs Federal Minister! It's from your house, from your resort! I don't think it's necessary to add anything. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now one might believe that this director might have done something wrong, that he may have misinterpreted the PC, that he may not have correctly understood the over 100 pages of explanations. No, this is not to be excluded because it is the vocational school for electrical engineering. In this school, which did not deal with your administrative simplification programme, you will probably recognize yourself. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! They lead the Ministry of the Future. I ask you: Is the school book order supposed to expire in the future as it is now? – Look Please, you're going a little further! We've got you for that! Failure number three: The quality of schools, especially vocational schools, also depends on whether there is a good mix among teachers. A good school needs experienced older, but also younger teachers coming from the economy. But you, Mrs Bundesminister, have failed to create current admission conditions for young teachers, especially in technical subjects and especially in vocational schools. Initial salaries of 15 000 S net are not an incentive for a pedagogicalally talented technician to teach young people responsibly. This will lead to a dilution of quality in vocational schools, especially where we might need more and more quality. The way out of special contracts is not a solution either, but the approval of these special contracts takes many months more and more. So that doesn't solve the problem either. They manage the bureaucracy, and that's a burden on the budget. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! They lead the Ministry of the Future of our country. I ask you: Should not young teachers teach our professional students in the future? – Look Please, you're going a little further! We've got you for that! Or?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4602	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Saviour. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4624	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Riepl said that there is no one in the field of education and science who does not protest. To this end, Mr Riepl, I must say: After all, you and your comrades are contributing to the fact that teachers and university professors are trying to make a very specific effort in the education and science sector and are trying to create a mood against this federal government. [[Abg. Edler: ÖVP teachers are not there!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, from the left-wing district! It is red teachers' union who in the schools are incite and insecure in the schools of eight, nine, ten, eleven-year-old schoolchildren. [[Abg. Schwemlein keeps a "FORMAT" article up to date with the title "Sex, Seeds and Video Tapes".]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shashing.]] Mrs Schasching! I think it is a terrible thing if teachers abuse people's students for their political purposes! [[Abg. Where? Which school? An example!]] And if you still support this from the SPÖ, I have to say: That's objectionable! It will be necessary to take countermeasures! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am also appalled by the example at a university that one must have participated in demonstrations against this government in order to get a training certificate at all. Does that correspond to your concept of democracy? Does this pressure correspond to the need to demonstrate against a freely elected government, your conviction of democracy? – I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that the scientific budget took a very positive development in 2002 because with a budget framework of 2,364 484 billion y, it has an increase of 69 million y or by 3.01 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Did you write the Papi speech?]] Mr President, I should like to thank Come on. Get out of here and say something! You must know, Mr Cap, what university policy is. Finally, you spent half your life at the university, but thank God you now have your doctor. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: So young am I?]] But that doesn't make you fail. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Sweamlein: Could you please take your hand out of your pocket?]] [[Further calls.]] But the development compared to the past few years is also quite remarkable. As has been said, compared to the previous year, we have had a percentage increase of 3%, we have had a percentage increase of 6.6 percent in the 2001 budget and an increase of 4.64 percent in the 2000 budget, and all this despite a restructuring rate! If you look at what your government has done in the years ahead, you get a picture of the importance you give to science, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Abg. Schwemlein: We've had you studied!]] In 1995, about 5.55 percent of the science budget was cut, 8.32 percent in 1996 and 5.3 percent in 1997. [[Abg. Swimmling: Do you have cold hands because you don't take your hand out of your pocket?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government adds a very high priority to science and research, which is why we have also managed to increase in this area. I can only congratulate the Minister on this, and I hope that this successful science policy will continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4787	The next speaker was Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4809	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is already an art not to provide a single educational content here in four minutes. But, Mr. Schender, you rule this art perfectly. I congratulate you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Too much education is damaging. – This is an old and rather dusty saying of the conservatives, which seems to be back today, ladies and gentlemen. While the educational budget has been constantly increased in times of SPÖ government participation, it is now the first time that the educational budget has to be reduced. Ladies and gentlemen! You complain, you give us – "complain" that was a good Freud's promise now – and you provide us and our children and young people with financial cuts and a educational standstill. In other words: You are pursuing an intention, ladies and gentlemen, to achieve certain socio-political and economic changes. Certain goals are to be achieved that have long been a concern to the conservatives, to you, in our country, and are now sold to the Austrians under the pretext of a balanced budget. They ignore the increasingly important link between social and educational policies. Their policies force these two so important pillars to wake up. They're waving. I don't know if you really want these pillars to fall down, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Your course is neither modern nor unique. He has concrete models, both abroad and in his own history. Increases in teachers' working time, salary reductions of teachers, reduction of staffing by blockage of admission, increase in teacher performance by higher schooling numbers, reduction of school expenditure – these measures, ladies and gentlemen, decreed the citizen's block policy in the First Republic after the World Economic Crisis 1929. [[Call the ÖVP: You've already been there?]] But today we are not in a world economic crisis, we are in a relatively stable economic situation, and I say this: thanks to the social democracy of the last 30 years! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why do you make an education policy in 2001 as if we were just after a world economic crisis? [[Abg. Edlinger: Very right!]] I don't understand at all. You cut down the education budget and pretend you'd put under any dubious constraints. But you do that simply because it is in line with your social policy objectives that are there: to undermine the social state, to promote entrepreneurship and to achieve hegemony in public life. These are really your goals! Education becomes a commodity for you. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Nice to learn externally!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Are our children becoming a commodity for you? Seems to me! Apparently. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Apparently!]] – Thank you for teaching, Mr. Oberlehrer! Is it really necessary for educational agreements, ladies and gentlemen, to be better disciplined? Does it really need educational advice because in the future fewer teachers need to care for more students? Maybe our kids are the new savings potential? – That’s really sad! Mr Kiss! You, who have been to school, know as well as I do that the challenges – I have already said it anyway, thank you! – get bigger and bigger, both in the cognitive and emotional fields in school. [[Abg. Kiss: Seems to be!]] We are all required, the children are required, that is no question. Instead of "own responsibility instead of youthful violence", "student mediators against violent outbreaks", "Learning sayings where it is pressing" or "children are fighting, but right!" to support educational councils that discipline and do not involve children, because fewer people are available because fewer teachers are available for more children. This is the bitter truth, and the numbers speak a clear language. You know better than I do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, a small example. I don't understand at all: Why should children be excluded from the hiking day before they can even go with them? This is what these new agreements say: Because we have too few people who can work with these kids. [[Debates of the European Parliament Saviour.]] – This is an example even in the draft law, colleague Steibl. Read it! I'm sure we won't do that. The youth is more important to us than you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4951	The next speaker was Mrs Wachslander. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4972	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, on and for herself, my patience is relatively great, but it was really bad with you. It is not opposition policy, Mrs Colleague, to tell you what is not all right. Instead, you should show what you could do better. You should make better suggestions! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You were my colleague! Do you remember, Mrs. Colleague? You'd have to know that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] I have to tell you: I would really like to thank Mr Edlinger on your behalf. If he had not left behind such a large debt hole, I would immediately request that you set up a special course for opposition policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What you understand by opposition policy is alone: No to all measures – whether structural measures or other changes. [[Abg. Shasching: You can only say no to such measures!]] Why? What measures are so bad? [[Abg. Shasching: Teachers out!]] It's not a talk about "Teacher out!"! The teachers are supposed to get more into the class, but that bothers you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Deputies Heinisch-Hosek and Schasching: No, no!]] If someone becomes a teacher these days, he knows that he not only has to do with loud one-ser children, but that he certainly has an open, a sharper youth ahead of him, with which he must communicate with whom he must be together. But please, one hour for the classbook guide, where are we? [[Abg. Sweamlein: Now please tell me how it is! I've been in service for 28 years! You'll tell me how to teach! I'm listening to you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: We want more heart! Where's the heart? What do you say to the heart?]] So with heart and feeling you can teach and understand very well. That's right. But I also have to make explicit what rules of conduct are required, and may not just say: Yeah, yeah, I'm going to fit, okay? - That's all. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But you have to stay a person!]] People are certainly there, that's quite clear. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: We want more heart!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! They do nothing but polemize, infirm, misrepresent, misrepresent, and – for that I may even get a call for order – even hate. That's it! You are insecure with this, and you call for strikes and demonstrations. And that's tomorrow's youth? – No, I really don’t need that! [[Abg. That's a strong piece!]] In the short term, you have been able to point out this approach in Vienna, but in the long run – I guarantee you – you will demask yourself. What you do is harmful to democracy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What about the heart? Did you say anything to the heart?]] They negate the will and aspirations of the government to the educational offensive. And what are you doing? – You only make a ignition offensive! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: We're looking for the heart!]] They play the game with fear, not only with the teachers, but also with the parents and with the students. You may have heard on TV yesterday what is happening: Photos are placed in the classes, and they say: Look, these are the evil ones that will cost you the teachers. – That’s really ridiculous! [[Abg. Who's that?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal estimates for the budget chapter on education and culture provide a framework for expenditure of 5.6 billion ye. And, Mr Antoni, even despite consistent savings, there will be no cover and no freezing of educational expenditure. It will be the hourly offer. The funding hours will remain. Nothing will change in this way. [[Abg. Dr. Cap points to the flashing lamb at the speaker's desk.]] – You don’t always need to show me the light, Mr. Cap. I'm not blind! I see you're from the red half of the empire. Red I can easily distinguish from all truly acceptable colors. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I'll give you a tip. At the time when you asked the Education Ministers from SPÖ, I was also a teacher. And what usually happened? It was only the one who had the right party book, and then he sat as a supply reserve in the conference room. We don't need that! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5201	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Your speaking time is adjusted to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5222	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The division that last night the television-visited Austrian public had She now continued with terms such as "population" and "undemocratic". That's how it was plowed out to you yesterday. You said it well. But, as I mean, they didn't understand what it was all about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Weekly countries: I'm not pudding!]] Since yesterday, the Austrians know that they are the red officials and the dark red teachers who are guilty of nothing going on in this Republic and nothing more is happening. – I didn’t know there were so many red officials and so many red teachers, because as far as I know, the reds were always in the minority until yesterday, at least. Even 30 years have not been able to change that. [[Abg. Swimmling: One is still too much!]] But, well, that's still a joke. But if you've heard how it went on with expressions like "put your hand" and "go against these people", you've already been able to fear yourself a little. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And the Mrs. Federal Minister is daily eating, has not said anything about it or nodded with the head when statements were made such as that teachers in school put pressure on the parents about the children so that any signatures are given. And Mr. Schender has turned out here and, probably in this context, has talked about the abuse that the teachers are supposed to have with the children. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! You were famous for always being protected from your teachers, but now you are silent about such serious attacks toward our teachers. In your opinion here in Parliament, you praise the teachers and stress how good they are, but on television, I do not hear anything about it in the general public. I would definitely have expected that from you. One thing I say with all the clarity: If it happens that abuse is the case here, and if it is claimed that children are put under pressure to bring the parents to a signature, then please also mention an example. [[Abg. Son of a bitch, hot!]] I didn't hear a single example! I didn't hear any example of the "evil" red officials who wouldn't do anything. There is no example, but there is a whole professional group. The main thing is, you have your enemy image again, and then it can work well politically again. – This is your party’s strategy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Witchlands.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I still have one question in connection with the questions on the budget. We have asked you, or in concrete terms, whether it would not be possible to offer the preparatory courses for the professional exam free of charge. In this context, you will answer me: This is not an offer from the federal government. These decisions fall exclusively into the decision of the private-law-organised providers. Mrs. Minister! I cannot begin with this answer, and even if the apprentices who have applied for a professional maturity test are not able to start something with it; nor are those people who take the word of life-long learning seriously and truly do not come from well-established families really not among the rich. You can't start with this answer at all. And because today it was claimed that we did not go into the budget, I would like to say that the funds for adult education were already reduced by 15 percent in the 2001 budget. The 2002 budget remains the same. Ladies and gentlemen! If we take adult education seriously if we take life-long learning seriously, then it is time to take measures here so that those who are not wealthy can also take a professional maturity test. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We of the SPÖ are the formation of our youth, the proper training of young people is much more important than the fetish zero deficit!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5313	The next speaker was Mrs Papházy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5334	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a Viennan, I am delighted: Much is done in Vienna's cultural landscape. The Museum quarter is just before completion, the distribution of the Federal Museums is scheduled, and the Austrian National Library becomes with 1. January 2002 For museums, the lawfulness brings changed framework conditions and new challenges. Art needs audience, and it is important that the variety of museums strive in the positive competition for young and old from nearby and far away. The offer must reach the visitors, and the offer must be affordable. At the head of the full-right museums, we need art experts with excellent management qualities, who manage well the balance between preserving cultural heritage and promoting contemporary art. The higher degree of autonomy brings the optimal archiving and scientific activity on the one hand in context with the attractive preparation and the need for efficient economy on the other. Synergies must at least be evaluated in advance. For example, I am thinking of the Underground Forum, which aims to connect art-historical museum, natural-historical museum and museum quarter, or of the U-MAK that has recently been remembered. The museums are invited to contact the common public and new visitor groups. Museum pedagogy provides access to the children. For example, at the increasing number of visitors to the Technical Museum, you can see on which success course Gabriele Zuna-Kratky is with her team. Special exhibitions bring interesting focus, and "The long night of museums" in cooperation with the ORF is a positive example of a successful, attractive offer. The "Basler Museumsnacht" at the beginning of this year went even further, with sponsors allowing free admissions, and the storm was so big that the entrance had to be partially restricted. It is important in my view that our museums set up similar initiatives that allow sponsors to access through free entry, days of open door for other, even for less financial visitors. According to the motto "Do good and talk about it!" the museums, as I mean, would certainly be the support of the media. It is important to open the doors instead of closing them. I am thinking, for example, of the MAK, Peter Noever, who has been doing excellent work for 15 years and unfortunately closes the halls and offers events and discussions before half empty hall, in the smallest circle, instead of offensively dealing with the changed economic possibilities. The MAK and the good work Peter Noever deserved more visitors. From the autonomy of museums to the autonomy of universities. It is important that public universities are on their way to justice. It is important that there is an actual equality between private and public universities. This concerns the admission of new courses of study, which concerns joint bodies of all rectors et cetera. And also the Austrian high schooling will have to have a different priority in the future. It is also important to maintain a clear distinction between the excellent, practice-related universities and the scientifically oriented universities. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'm convinced: The positive developments in the fields of education, science and culture are for the benefit of our children and for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5399	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Plank. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5420	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Dr. Papházy, why does the ÖH have to get a new face, a new task? Maybe a follow-up speaker of yours can answer that. It may need to become more involved in higher education policy. Then I agree with your interpretation. Mrs. Minister! Higher education must remain a key task for the state, and science policy must be refocused on this government and not remain weak. Your Federal Ministry calls itself "Future Ministry" – let it go Please take place again! For example, in the field of vocational colleges; This has already been addressed by previous speakers. We know about the enormous need and about this success story. I would just like to ask you, as a minister, to: Please assume your responsibility as regards location policy in the field of technical colleges! There was once a certain regionalization concept for higher education courses. Now, despite increased demand, it is modern to talk about concentration, site adjustment. So take care of your responsibility, and decide! You're responsible! For me, it is not understandable that small cities such as the city of Rottenmann as a university location are still rejected by reason, but that a small town such as Feldkirchenen, for example, is allowed to study at a technical school. Mrs. Federal Minister! I don't want to assume that the main reason is that Feldkirchenen is in Carinthia. Show your responsibilities, and give a line in location policy, a clear, unmistakable and consistent for all candidate cities! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Also allow for the future to take place, for example, in science and research. The key policy of effectiveness, economy and sparingness alone is not enough. If you say "valuation", that's actually: Do we need that at all? If you say "focus" that means: We might also be less able to offer. And "redimension" means you're going back and making less. I'm actually wondering: Is it about devastation of science and research? As has already been said in this House by Members, is it also about reducing the number of students in Austria? You know that our academic ratio is far below the European average. The previous policy of this Federal Government makes this apprehension: It's a restriction. Students pay 10 000 S to student tax from autumn. [[Abg. Weekly countries: Year!]] In addition, they still have to struggle with an increase in public transport. In return, the government thins, saves and locks. I also see this frightening characterisation of your policy confirmed in the proposals for the new law of service to the university. "Research is the basis for prosperity", is one of these ads. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper section up to date.]] – I didn’t call it careless, others did it. ==References====External links== March in the ORF, have She said Austria should become world class in research. – However, the four-pillar model presented is not a basis for science and research. This is a dead end model, you know. If you continue this path, there will be no university teachers, no research and no future of science in a few years. Science and research need continuity. Migration into the economy is not the goal of scientists. They don't come back because they can't come back to universities at all. In addition, high fluctuations have never been a sign of the quality of a company – including Unis. And the lack of identification does not permit further development. Your termination automatic is anti-performance and depressing. None of the incoming scientists find themselves in qualification or evaluation. Nor is it about classical Pragmatization from the beginning. That's not it. Even today, all those who take a scientific career have to overcome numerous interfaces; You know. Accept the call offers, and negotiate in such a way that science and research can continue to develop continuously and without any pressure to cancel. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Let us take place and let us take place in another area too! The Austrian Studienförderungsgesetz, as I mean, is good and has also been continuously improved, but the internationalisation, mobility, willingness to perform and flexibility of today's young people is no longer enough. For current requirements for students and young scientists, there must be no barriers in the third millennium, no barriers – neither geographical nor social. It is time and benefits the location of Austria to extend study funding also to Austrian students abroad. This was not to do with disadvantage and punishment of the particularly qualified. I therefore make the following request today – and I am pleased about it: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Minister! We're waiting. Let us take place and let the future take place! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5511	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by the honourable Members. Plank, Dr. Brinek, Dr. Graf and Dr. Grünewald are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hetzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5535	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In his contribution to the debate, Mr Posch complained that free access to universities in Austria was threatened by the introduction of tuition fees. – I will prove to you that there will not only be this "numerus clausus" in Austria with the introduction of these tuition fees, but unfortunately there has been this in Austria for many years. The Social Democrats have always boasted that they were responsible for the fact that there was an educational explosion in the 1970s. What has become of this explosion has then been seen in the nineties on the basis of the developing mass universities. [[Abg. Faul: You wouldn't be there if it didn't exist!]] The education explosion? In the 1970s, I was not yet able to benefit from the explosion of education. You're right, colleague. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brix.]] In the 1990s the following situation arose as a result of the extensive financial hunger that took place at the universities. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Brix.]] – Unfortunately, I do not hear you; I am sorry. At the universities, the situation has arisen, which no longer made the study of mass universities worthy. One could no longer register for exercises because the number of places was rigorously limited and shortened. It was therefore no longer possible to conduct a free study. One has lost study time and, of course, has not been able to complete this study at the appropriate time. [[Abg. Brix: Has it failed anyway!]] And that's exactly the point that's being discussed again today. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us not conclude the development that is taking place in Europe! We do not have to be in the final stages of development everywhere, even in the development of education policy. There was a very interesting meeting on Monday last week, where some models were presented, how to reform universities and change from their construction. I bring you the example of the Netherlands and quote from a newspaper article of the "Vienna newspaper" from the weekend. Professor de Boer from the Netherlands explained: "Academic staff have no official status" in the Netherlands, "it can be terminated", and he has succeeded: "Work safety is very high. The universities are interested in binding their good people – and this is the vast majority – on their own." This is a reform proposal from the Netherlands, which also includes a lot of truth for us. To Basel, someone has stated that the law of the service was changed in 1998 and that they also waived the status of civil servants there. Ladies and gentlemen! These are approaches from European countries, which should also be suggestions for us to consider taking bonds in this direction. These are approaches that show us ways to the Austrian university future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5604	Mr Antoni spoke on a further point of view. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5625	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I spoke a second time, because we think it is striking that the government parties do not have a single word for life-long learning and not a word of death for the working students. This is revealing for your focus that you have announced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A second education course, a career-accompanied study is a very special facet of life-long learning, let alone dead. For these students, it has always been extremely difficult to reconcile work and study. Despite your promise, estimated Ladies and gentlemen, giving adult education and lifelong learning a special priority, including budgetary, to this government in the higher education sector, has created a further access barrier for the same group: 10 000 S of admission fee for the study. Instead of relieving in this field, as is usual in other countries – I mention the concept of part-time studies – almost all students are now asked to check out. Use at least part of this money for professional students! I'll be right there. A new slogan is currently being used in the ministry: "Whoever wants to, can study." – But what does reality look like when you have to pay fees in the future? I think ladies and gentlemen, you should add to the slogan "Who wants to, can study": but it costs much more.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5668	The next speaker was Mr Rada. Voluntary red-time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5689	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I quote at the beginning German Chancellor Schüssel on 11. March of this year: I want to make Austria the Wall Street of Knowledge. [[Jawel and Bravo reputation as well as detonatative condolences to the ÖVP.]] If the Börsians of Wall Street, what is being used here in Austria in education policy, were to be involved in knowledge reduction, there would be the biggest stock exchange crash ever in America on Wall Street, ladies and gentlemen, very much appreciated! [[Congratulations and bravo call at the SPÖ.]] And why? I can prove it to you, too. It has already been said today that I would therefore only like to prove it to you more emphatically: Study fees, and what you have decided today is another thumb screw with ambulance fees, with difficulties in co-insurance and so on. We will thus push even more young people out of the way. If you know that one third of all students have parents who have a net income of up to 20 000 S per month, you have to make it clear that these tuition fees and all these "social" measures will cause problems. Another point – which has already been said several times today – is that: The technical colleges become financially inalienable for many of our young people, because the places of study have become rare, the state subsidies are getting smaller and the young people cannot afford to do so. I do not want to repeat what is going on in compulsory education and what is happening in the course of the debate last week. But one really irritates me, and there I am again at the basic statement of our Federal Chancellor: If we put knowledge, quality and education in the foreground and are constantly talking about quality assurance, I ask you: Why should these institutions, which are responsible for quality assurance and evaluation, namely the District and National School Councils, be abolished? I can imagine because this is such a far-reaching demand from the liberals that possible EIA bases in the individual federal states should be weakened. I underline this from a low-Austrian point of view, where three quarters of all the electorate cast their vote for the ÖVP in terms of personnel representation elections. It should therefore be your direct interest, Mr Klubobmann, to prevent the realization of this presence of the liberal coalition leaders. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Why do I emphasize that? I am a supporter of all autonomous efforts. We thank God for autonomy in schools, but also these educational developments need to be monitored, and it must be ensured that they are in line with the quality of the Austrian school. And this is what Austrian school supervision is doing, and I have doubts as to whether, as you said, Mrs Bundesminister, an Austrian-wide evaluation agency will be able to do so. It's an old saying: Whoever pays, creates – gets the result he wants. And that is exactly what we do not want for our young people: that an agency that is paid privately provides the desired results. One last: In this debate, Schüssel said on 11 February. March: The best thing for our young people is good enough. – What this government is doing at present is not only not the best for our young people, but it is flawed goods.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5749	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote on the opinion group VI of the Federal Proposal for 2002. This includes chapters 12 and 14 of the Federal Estimate in 500 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group VI of the Federal Finance Act. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Greenewald and others on the exemption of students from developing countries from tuition fees. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Plank, Dr. Brinek, Dr. Graf, Dr. Grünewald and comrades on improved funding for studies abroad. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – It is unanimously adopted. (E 79.) Advisory Group X Chapter 65: Transport, innovation and technology
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5835	We are now negotiating the Advisory Group X: Transport, Innovation and Technology. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mr Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5862	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Not you, Mrs Forstinger, but the Freedom Party has been responsible for transport policy in Austria for over a year. And it is a lost year for Austria in the field of transport policy – and this is clearly and clearly evident today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For example, I only remember how your predecessor, Federal Minister Schmid, has pushed back and forth necessary transport projects: Once he was for the Semmering Tunnel, once against it, once he was for the expansion of the Westbahn, then again against it. Once he was for the freight train bypass St. Pölten, then he had another opinion again. After just half a year, Federal Minister Schmid left his office again, with the labeled saying that his batteries were empty – and then you came, Mrs. Forstinger! However, you, Mrs Bundesminister, have essentially continued Mr Schmid's policy: Also, you have not yet made any of the urgently needed transport infrastructure investments to improve Austria's economic location and to safeguard the opportunities through the opening of the east! They endanger the future of our country by your non-decisions, such as the station offensive, as well as false decisions, such as the 1.7 billion schilling for a trail in Carinthia in the rural area, which no one really needs at the moment, but I will come to talk about it. [[Call the liberals: Who says that, please?]] That's what your Mr. Reichhold, your state councillor, party-representative and state-leader-representative in Carinthia. He said that – and then resigned! So you know exactly who says that! [[New calls to the liberals.]] The expansion of Vienna as a TEN node, the expansion of the West and South Railways, the expansion of the high-level road network – whether it be a road or also the railway – to the neighbouring East states, the motorway-fastway ring around Vienna, everywhere: no decision, no financing, no realization in foreseeable time! [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] But it is also interesting how you, Mrs. Federal Minister, make decisions: On the one hand, you put pressure on Mr. Landeshuptmann Haider – and there are these "famous" newspaper articles: "The Wink with the shovel." You all know that where Mr. Dr. Haider came to you with a shovel, sugar bread or some other pastries and threatened you; I could quote it from newspapers now. So it puts pressure on you, Mr. Landes Captain, by saying: If not 3.5 billion schilling for Carinthia look out, then there are personal consequences! And on the other hand, Mr. Wurmitzer, head of the ÖVP Carinthia, said: If Forstinger stays there, she won't survive! – So politics is being made in Austria! On the other hand, if other national leaders, such as Pröll, Häupl or Niessl, express their concerns about this infrastructural policy, they will not even get an appointment from you, Mrs Minister, yes, even from you through the press as a "land traitor" when these heads of state turn to the public in an emergency campaign! You have to imagine how public money is handled! I can say this again – a question in this direction has come from the Freedom Party –: My professional sympathy is very simple with the Transport Council of Carinthia, Mr Ing. Reichhold, who really meant: The extension of the coral railway – I quote – "does not make sense without a Semmering base tunnel". There you have to give Mr Landesrat Reichhold a right, because it is indeed so. At the same time, however, this seems to have been a major reason for Reichhold's misgivings with Mr. Landeshuptmann Haider, as well as the reason for Reichhold's resignation, for Landeshüfer Haider formulated it this way: It is a success of the Freedom Party to have prevented the Semmering Tunnel! On the other hand, we are constantly hearing from the Styrian capital, Mrs Klasnic, about the importance of the Semmering tunnel. [[Abg. Steibl: A very good woman!]] – Mr. Landeshauptmann Pröll, on the other hand, starts one action after another in order to prevent this railway tunnel necessary for the extension of the South Railway! And what are you doing, Mrs. Federal Minister? – They are silent, do not decide, and thus opportunities are denied for the future and thus the economic location of Austria is also at risk. But it is also about how you, Mrs Forstinger, deal with public companies and the people involved in them. Shortening For example, in this budget, the Austrian Federal Railways are once again the funds for the railway infrastructure, namely by 1 billion Schilling – and this, although all experts believe that the railway has to be expanded. Constantly Unsafety You're the employees of the ÖBB! They say there must be new structures, a demolition of the railway; three companies will be made out of the railway! – The employees of the ÖBB are simply and simply afraid! Recently I took part in the transport safety day of the Austrian Federal Railways, which took place at the Südbahnhof. There too one could feel this concern, this fear of the ÖBB staff! And there is no need to wonder what this security might look like if people who have the highest responsibility for the security of other people can only carry out their tasks under fear. That's why my appeal is: Mrs Bundesminister, hearing Please stop with this fear-making at the Austrian Bundesbahnen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now to another company, Telekom AG. There are already suicides from employees, because people are mercilessly and recklessly canceled, which also loses important expertise! Some time ago it was possible to read in a newspaper that a staff member had 120 notices, and when she returned to work, she found her own cancellation on her desk! This letter of termination had only been given to her so that she could do this before! Is this the "social warmth", the "policy with heart" that your ex-party Haider is talking about? – You can’t deal with people like that! That's not the way it is! But the Federal Minister obviously lacks any experience in this regard. – At least I would like to ask you to intervene! For example Telekom: They also endanger Austria's economic location! What sense does it make, on the one hand, to cancel highly qualified technicians, but on the other hand to know very well that 13 000 Austrians are waiting for an ADSL connection, including numerous companies. Further: Why Dangers Are you developing UMTS in Austria by non-subsidy, by non-decision regarding a mobile mast regulation? Silence, no decision, neglect the future, risk economic location! That's not how it is, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For some time now, we Socialists have been calling for regional local transport companies, which include the postal bus and the railway bus, as well as the secondary trains. The aim is to create an attractive offer for public transport in the region concerned. But what are you doing, Mrs. Federal Minister? – Do not decide; take the closure of off-road trains, take the sale of Postbus AG, possibly abroad, as well! There too: nothing but chaos and destruction of social achievements, the future is being lost – and the economic location of Austria is at risk! Ladies and gentlemen! Here I can show you a "rail newspaper into the future". [[The speaker briefly keeps a document up to date.]] I thought that was what the "standard" itself wrote, but then I noticed that it was an advertisement of the Federal Ministry. Mrs Bundesminister, here you can read: "No project has been stopped." – I can tell you: You, Mrs Federal Minister, are one of the most important departments of this government, and in this place of yours there is so much where you have not made a decision! In this context, for example, I should like to say: Universal Service Regulation of the Post – Not Decisive! New telecoms law – not decided! Federal Roadmap – not decided! National transport safety system – not decided! Negotiations with the EU on ecopoints and transit contracts – open! Improvements in railway and road infrastructure – not decided! Railway station offensive – cancelled! [[Call to the liberals: This is a bill with One!]] Up-to-date frequency allocations in the field of Telekom Austria – not decided! Driver's license law-Novelle – not decided! New phone number regulation – falsely signed, withdrawn! Enforcement of the truck-road pricing until 2002 – continued to be postponed! Furthermore, the need for a gap between motorways and the extension of new routes is only slow! Financing for road pricing – no decision! [[Call to the liberals:Who was there for a long time? Was that the one?]] Future concepts for ÖBB as well as for Post und Telekom AG – outstanding, missing! Mr Kukacka, you will certainly get out of here and say: For 30 years you have missed all of this from the SPÖ! – I can tell you now if you want to say this again: You of the ÖVP were in the government and then you missed it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With this, ladies and gentlemen, I will come back to my first statement from before. More than a year ago, the Freedom Party took responsibility for transport and infrastructure policy in Austria. – Ladies and gentlemen, it was a lost year for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6080	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6109	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If this was a "year of lost transport policy", I wonder what the last 30 years have been, Mr Eder! 30 years of missing, 30 years of shortcomings! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] To be honest: If I were Clubobmann of the SPÖ: For this speech you, Mr Eder, would be really shocked by me, because what you have presented here was nothing but a massive indictment against your transport ministers, Strings, Climate and One, a charge, as has rarely been made in this House before, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder: Always the same filth! That's never gonna happen!]] Yes, do you believe that in a year that in three or four months – as Mrs. Forstinger's case is – all that you have missed from the SPÖ can be picked up, for many decades, and what you were not prepared to attack, even somehow! And once you have attacked it, you have completely failed, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Abg. Eder: We already know this speech, Mr Colleague.]] You have failed – to give just one example – to the much quoted Semmering base tunnel. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It was your transport ministers who could not regulate this problem either objectively or politically or legally, Mr Eder. – I would at least be ashamed of such a policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You, Mr Eder, also said that the employees of the Austrian Federal Railways are "fearing". – I can only tell you: Yes, they are afraid because you have made the SPÖ a completely unconstitutional policy because you have pursued a transport policy that was and is an ideological shopkeeper! [[Abg. Eder: Falsification of history do you! In part, you have applied for this!]] They were and are not able to take modern knowledge of our society into account! Nor do you understand that even in transport policy, more liberalisation is necessary, Mr President, that new forms of business are necessary. This is recognised everywhere in Europe – only you, Mr Eder, and your social democrats do not recognize it! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eder.]] What you have done about the SPÖ in the field of transport policy was – unfortunately! – nothing but massive indebtedness! Bundesbahn: owes 50 billion schilling. [[Abg. Eder: There were also requests from you!]] We voted in part; that is right. The reason why we separated ourselves from you from the ÖVP was, please, that we have clearly recognized from the ÖVP that this path is wrong! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You defend all of this today from the SPÖ, although this has led completely astray! ASFINAG: 82 billion schilling, SCHIG: 140 billion Schilling, Telekom-Holding: 36 billion schilling debts! – Over 250 billion Schilling debt you have accumulated from SPÖ in the transport sector, Mr Eder! That's blamable! [[Abg. Edlinger: The Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel did not exist at all at that time!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] This is a declaration of bankruptcy of social-democratic transport policy! Even today, you have not succeeded again – not even in starting – to present what you would do differently or better! [[Abg. Edellinger: Everything!]] You, Mr Eder, have only criticized old transport policy – please! –, however, in no single point shows where and how different or better it could go! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! That's sad, that's tragic! You should at least take a bond with your German colleagues from the SPD. [[Abg. Kiermaier: Also in England?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] For example, you should consider what the German Transport Minister, a member of the SPD, said on the subject of "rail reform"! That a clear and clear separation between infrastructure and sales is necessary and that what the Deutsche Bahn has done so far was wrong! What we have long called for, namely a clear separation in this area, is thus also being made in Germany, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! In any case, in Germany, the Social Democrats are willing to jump over ideological barriers – only you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, are not able to take off your ideological scams! In such a transport policy, we will not be involved by the ÖVP in the future, but will go convincing and new ways of solving the transport problems in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6302	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6323	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me speak on the budget chapter. To open up transport with a transport-related and extremely interesting topic, with the topic of "regovernment" or "save à la FPÖ" when it is just this ministry. So let's talk about a certain Mr. N. N., who – if you look at the business distribution of the transport resort – looks at it at the very top of it, so Mr. N., who, of course, also has a very concrete name. This is the supposed "left hand" of the head of the department, drawn from the paper industry, so it is your current head of the cabinet Miko. This Dipl.-Ing. Miko is to be made a "general secretary" of the department – which is already very obvious; some of the questions were very interesting. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your colleague, don't talk about privileges, otherwise your Landesrats-Pension will appeal to me!]] There was an invitation to tender, and the outcome of this invitation to tender was so clear that, as the Minister said in the reply to an appropriate request, any presumption in this respect "abstains any basis". [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What did your pension cost the country of Tyrol?]] If this "Secretary-General" will be finally installed in your ministry, there will probably also be a restructuring in the department – that is quite obvious and to be expected – in the following direction: new, large and centralized management, the central section under the direction of the "Secretary-General", as well as a company – expensive consultants for good money! – recommended. – Under the line of course this also means massive, additional costs at the level of this resort! So this is the "rerule" and post-making at the level of this resort – at least something the greens will certainly not play with! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the liberals:Have you got a Land Council pension? How high is it?]] Of course, you wonder what the whole thing is to take place. – It is obvious that there should be a "essential transport coordination competence in the personal sphere of influence of FPÖ-Granden". This is not something that the Greens blindly support, but something you read in media, which you can also understand by your order policy. [[Abg. Böhacker: You have your knowledge from the media!]] You, Mrs. Forstinger, have announced several times – by the way: I estimate that this will finally be done – that there will be a federal road map. [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you have one – and how high is your Land Council-pension?]] But that is not necessary at all. [[Calls: Why?]] Since 1994 work has been done on a federal road map. In the meantime, 40 million Schilling have been invested for this purpose. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who is sitting in the glass house...!]] So this is a smart and very good strategy, which we support Greens when, Mrs. Minister, you finally clean up once, that every country captain simply comes out, gives his wish list – and this is then processed after different political dice games. [[Abg. Großruck: This is federalism...!]] In this way, please do not go further in transport policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In itself, this would be a project that is very supportive of the Greens and where we are very much in favour of finally realizing it. – But now we come to what this will actually look like. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about your pension?]] A FPÖ waste policy in this context will certainly not be supported by Greens! And I would like to point out briefly what this waste policy is all about. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you want to talk about waste in connection with your pension?]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Yes, at your pension...!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mrs. Forstinger has announced – at first I thought it was a strange confusion of words – that there should suddenly be a general - transport plan, which is obviously to be put on top of what has been drawn up in many years of work by many experts in the ministry. And now it's going to be exciting: Who will be commissioned to draw up this general transport plan? So there are some questions, Mrs Minister, and I hope you can answer them with satisfaction. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] What does Austria need to reinvent the wheel for now? Is it true that the creation of this new general transport plan without a call to an extremely road-friendly association – which always sends a newspaper to all Members – should go as it was already read in the media? [[the speaker keeps a magazine up to date]] I ask you: Is that right? Is this really the case that this is without a call for proposals to this House? Should we go to the club? Is it true that the leader representative of this group in this issue has already published a work on "The new transport policy" and, so to speak, the new general transport plan? Does this mean, therefore, that tax money in millions of old hats, which have long been available, is being purchased, although something worked out for years and well established in the ministry is just before completion? [[Abg. Wattaul: Mrs Lichtenberger, what do you even want to say?]] And it is right – listen to me, Mr Wattaul! – that the Secretary General of this association is a noble Vienna FPÖ district politician? [[Abg. Wattaul: Out with the color! Where are you going? How was the trittin?]] [[the speaker holds a magazine the other day]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He certainly does not have a Landesrats-Pension!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Is this therefore the end of the vet economy in politics, if, as it were, one first installs a FPÖ man as super-supervisory, who also awards the orders, and then, from the outset, awards them to a FP association or to a FP man in this association? – With this, Mrs Minister, you are breaking a federal road map before it can be used in a meaningful manner. I would place a great deal of emphasis on the fact that there is a broken, elaborated federal road map with priorities, so that this Bazar method in the area of road map finally ceases. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Eder.]] Other points: This week, Mrs Minister, you will have to discuss at EU level with your colleagues a question that we have discussed more often in the committees, namely the issue of bans on weekend driving, this amendment of a directive or the revised directive which would be fatal for Austria, because it would make any new ban on driving impossible. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No more unanimous! Now we have it! We used to have unanimity!]] Unfortunately, she is on the agenda again, and I urge you to implement Mrs Minister, the broad consensus in the Transport Committee on the rejection of this directive as well. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who was responsible for the task of unanimity in sensitive areas?]] [[Call to the liberals: The Greens!]] I am rather disappointed that this item was put on the agenda at all, but please, Mrs Minister: [[Abg. Wattaul: That's the woman's fault, isn't it?]] There is an all-party consensus – at least one of these has been drawn up in the Committee – that this directive must not exist at all! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: That's what she said!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: "Frenetischer" applause with the greens!]] [[Call to the liberals: The applause keeps itself in limits!]] Further topic – and this is very clearly part of this – is: Compliance with all these directives, which come from the European level, or regulations and laws that we must have implemented on our roads in order to ensure security, whether in the field of the transport of dangerous goods, whether in the field of illegal employment or the terrible exploitation of truck drivers, must be monitored. Mrs. Minister! I ask you to increase the amount of money in these controls, that the infrastructure be expanded, that the density of controls be increased! I was at a convention on the transport of dangerous goods and I also spoke to Swiss representatives, and they said that we would not succeed under a 10 percent control density in this sector. There are terrible cases that I could tell here, where people are being exploited in the most unworthy way, such as the case of a Liechtenstein company, which is hired by the Lithuanian handlebar, which can then go to a hunger wage by means of a work contract as a sham self-employed person and, because they are paid over kilometers of performance, can not even cover their running costs without exceeding driving times. This leads to gross security problems on our streets, and that must stop! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister! I have not seen any emphasis in this direction in the current budget. I ask you to: Make everything possible so that both in the field of hazardous goods controls – here there is the federal hazardous goods transport test train and other facilities – as well as in the field of labour law and social law controls, the necessary level of control is finally produced so that this impotence and these – let us say it openly – piglets stop on our roads. [[Calls by Mr Böhacker, Mag. Schweitzer and Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You fit the Pirklhuber: "Schijnstall Österreich" and "Schweinreien"!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: "Schijnstall", and Lichtenberger: "Schinerijen"!]] These are things that were in court. I believe that the colleague from the industry knows very well how this is going about and what kind of evil competition black sheep in this industry is being made for the reasonable people. [[The speaker turns towards Abg. Wattaul]] Please support me better that we make safety on our roads and that we can finally punish the entrepreneurs and not just a few hundred shillings from the drivers! This is really a classification which can no longer be accepted. I believe that there will have to be a vote for all those who recognize themselves a little in the long-distance industry, because there is an evil competitive situation here, in which those who are in the The sector of this industry is positive, it is finally broken, because all the provisions we have in Austria are being undermined. This also includes an improvement in criminal regulations – here we are not yet sufficiently far; I think we both know – so that we can finally catch the black sheep there. This is of vital importance! [[Abg. May. Mr Schweitzer: Mr President! Stop it now! Enough!]] Finally, there's another point: The restructuring of the railway sector is an issue we could discuss for a long time, and we will certainly have the opportunity to do so in the future. But what is currently taking place in the field of Austrian Federal Railways in terms of performance reductions, you, Mrs. Minister, will always comment on the correct sentence in all replies to questions: The ÖBB are an independent company, and they are doing what they think is right. I just want to give you one heart: In the district of Osttirol, the only train link between Lienz and Innsbruck is to be shortened to two pairs per week. – That’s indisputable! That must not be taken away! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is not only the opinion of railway fans or greens, but – you will certainly be familiarized with it by the initiative there – already more than 15,000 people from East Tyrol have jointly contributed this initiative to the maintenance of a railway link in this district. So that you can imagine something below: This is a third of the inhabitants of the district! [[Abg. Wattaul: They should go by train once, not sign! Drive! Signing is too little!]] In this context, an initiative has also carried out market research for the railway to show how many customers it could actually have with a good offer. [[Call to the Freeman: Everybody ride them by bicycle, the Greens, instead of driving the train!]] At present, the offer is unfortunately such that it is difficult to use. If this link falls, the apprentices, students, people without cars, who have to go to the capital of the country. In my view, what has been offered by the head of state is far from sufficient. This view is also more than 15,000 signers of a resolution against the cessation of this link by the Austrian Federal Railways. [[Abg. Wattaul: Don't sign, drive!]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Take an initiative to get people on the train!]] Mrs. Minister! An initiative is needed to ensure that the Austrian Federal Railways become a real flat railway to the Swiss model. This requires a joint work with the Ministry. You can no longer resort to the position: The ÖBB are doing just what they want, that's really none of our business! There are, of course, links here – we do not need to make illusions. These are problems that need to be solved urgently! There is nothing left to move into the future or anywhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6811	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6833	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Performanceable transport routes are certainly the basic prerequisite for an overall functioning transport system, which must be able to cope with transport growth in the future in a smooth, environmentally friendly and acceptable way to the public. We believe in all political groups that this is a common goal. So far, I think, there is agreement, but it is. If Mr Eder, whom I very much appreciate and whom I also experience in the Committee, goes here today and spits down what he did down four months ago and three months ago and two weeks ago, then this is the new style of fundamental opposition, but it is not an objective contribution to debate, ladies and gentlemen, which would only take us a bit further. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If Mr Eder thinks that this has been a year's lost transport policy, I have to stop him: If this was a year's lost transport policy, then you must be responsible for 30 years of lost transport policy among your socialist transport ministers, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let's get it to the point: You can still go out here three times and make demands that have not been fulfilled by yourself, by your ministers, and now a minister who has been in office for half a year! - I think that's bad! But please, that's your style. Just keep going, no one will believe you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think it is very weird and particularly threatening when Mr Eder goes here and makes the Minister of Transport responsible for Deutsche Telekom AG's interests! I am not saying: for Telekom matters – for which she is very responsible – but it is about Telekom AG. I need to help your weak memory once again on the jumps. [[Abg. Gaal: This is an insult!]] Please go back to the year 1997! – Do we remember that, Mr. Eder? [[Abg. Gaál: These are abusive words!]] What happened? – Since your socialist finance minister has increased Deutsche Telekom’s company, a beautiful stock package at a high price. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And the union has agreed!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The resistance has agreed!]] The union has agreed, has watched. Everyone was right. Climate has spoken a few months before that one will eventually bring the post as a whole to the stock exchange – a vision that was from the outset Humbug, which no one believed in you, but you have been driving. You sold this company because you were greedy and because the budget has been put out of all the sewings. That was right. [[Abg. Eder: And you do not want to sell?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone knew you had to clean up the company. They have spread sand into the eyes of the people: They said that it wouldn't happen, that you would have to save that you needed to consolidate. But now the Minister is responsible! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it's really no more ridiculous! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, I can no longer address the many points that have been put forward here, but this will be an opportunity in other debates. Just one, please, is clear: If someone is scared here, then by you, by the opposition parties! You are intimidating the fears of the staff of the ÖBB, you are instigating – and this also applies to Mrs. Lichtenberger – the fears of the population! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Please read in the budget! There was no reduction in public service. If you know the ministry, you also know that no one sideway can be closed without this being expressly approved. In order for such a side-way to be closed, certain conditions must be laid down. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an objective contribution that you should take to heart – and not simply polarize, polemize around and continue to insecure people! That's a bad policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6989	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7010	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! To my previous speaker – please listen, I quote –: "It is by no means a matter of achieving maximum funding in the shortest time, but also of ensuring Austrian influence, keeping jobs and corporate and decision-making structures in the country." – That’s what Mr. Federal Minister for Finance said on 18 April. September of the previous year. But now what happens at Telekom, you can't apologize! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Did you agree to 1997? Did the ÖGB agree in 1997?]] You are responsible for the Telekom corridors and no one else, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition Government! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Brosz.]] If you already come with the Stocks Act – this is also known to me –: [[Abg. Böhacker: Stay with the truth! Who's always cleared out the mail and Deutsche Telekom? 140 billion!]] What are the claims of the Stock Act? – That it is about the well-being of the company, the well-being of the owners and the well-being of the employees. And what is happening right now? . Mr Eder, I think, has explained this quite clearly and clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is true, I believe, that, in addition to the transport problem, it is also the second area which has ultimately moved the Federal Minister to be present here, namely innovation and technology in connection with the budget debate. I am sorry that we really did not have any proposals in the Industrial Committee – and that is not your fault alone, Mrs. Federal Minister, but it is the fault of the entire coalition government – since the previous year except for ÖIAG. What happens in the Industrial Committee... [[Abg. Haigermoser: In your time there has not even been a meeting, Mr President.]] That's not true at all! They were themselves involved in the Subcommittee – forgotten You don't! [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Like the Russians, you have "Njet!" I said!]] I only note that since the previous year, if the Industrial Committee did not give itself topics, we have no proposals from the Federal Government. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Because we are for technology and for thought!]] In my opinion, this is important in that it is also about the clear question: What are we talking about? For example, in the paper on the speech by the Federal Minister for Finance on the 2002 budget, in the overview 24 on the expenditure of the Federal Government for Economic Funding at the item "Research and Technology Funding" in 2001, the speech of 608 million y. Today, only more than 99 million y are estimated for 2002. footnote: It should be noted in this table that more than 500 million ye have been quoted for 2001, which will apply for the next three years. Anyone who reads this is thinking, because more passionate is actually something in the field of research and development. If you look to the next page to Table 25 on Federal Research expenditures, however, it is noted that the same 500 million y is strangely happening here! Sold twice – good advertising strategy! The fact is, however, that these funds are available only once, and therefore the question arises: What are the means? ==References== The Minister of Finance said that 10 billion Schilling was intended for research and development. ==References====External links== October, the then Minister Schmid is asked what it looks like with the research and development resources. – No answer possible: We don't know what it's going to be like yet. At the beginning of the year, it is only 7 billion. In fact, the 10 billion for research and development were shared and said: 7 billion for research and development, the remaining 3 billion for infrastructure measures, as announced by the Minister of State in the Committee. Is the ambitious objective that we also support Social Democrats really achieved that we spend 2.5 percent of GDP on research and development in 2005? [[Abg. Böhacker: But together with...!]] Of course! – But if you look at this, you will not be able to contradict me in that the federal government has to spend 70 billion schilling for it! 70 billion schilling to achieve this at all, otherwise it will not work – with a four percent growth. – But what is the growth forecast for the next time? – Not 4 percent! Ladies and gentlemen! If we pursue this objective, we need, for example, another 16 billion schilling out of the federal government from 2003 onwards. Now we have just financed the child money on the basis of your budget, and now we need another 16 billion schilling for research and development! – I look at how you actually deal with the zero deficit. The fact is: They're cutting off on the investments. [[Abg. Böhacker: The 2.5 percent has already suggested the one!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I also need to give you a hint: You took part in Parliamentary deliberations at the Budget Committee on 16 November. March notes that in 2000 the relation of research expenditure on GDP could be significantly increased. The President of the Research Council says very little about that: Looking at budgetary developments, it is clear that there has been a clear nod from 1999 to 2000, as research expenditure has gone down. – What's the matter now? I would have liked to know. The same applies in the context of the question: What research policy do we actually pursue? So far – it may already be that all of this has to develop first, Mrs. Federal Minister – there is no information at all, except announcements from your predecessor, that this will be announced in April, for what is actually the money. [[Abg. Gaal: For nothing, for nothing!]] It's just being spent. As a parliamentarian, we would have liked to have voted in favour of a budget proposal: For what is the money spent? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: "What does that mean, not "for what"!]] Or what – thank you for the hint; in Simmering you may speak differently, you will know. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: "For what" we don't say anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's crucial that we know what it's all about. It is already the third budget of the FPÖ coalition, which is being presented here, and the fact is that there is no way of knowing how economic policy is going to go on. [[Abg. Böhacker: Always this sick! Think positively!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Although figures are mentioned, there is a clear lack of implementation of new technologies, there is a clear lack of innovation for new economic sectors. Allow me to take just one example: Their economic policy, for example, in the field of biotechnology means that there is no research results at all, because this is not foreseen in the programme. What you are doing is to continue the social-democratic research project from 1998/99 into the future. I cannot take up new projects from this programme.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7214	Next, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Forstinger, speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7243	Mr President. Honourable Members of the House! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Eder for the fall in the register, because it is a whole list of tasks which I have taken over. I may also be allowed to complete this cash register from a report on the Court of Auditors. It's clear there: The transport policy objectives were not achieved, traffic could not be shifted proportionally to its growth to rail, a federal road map was not in place, and several capital-intensive new construction lines did not meet the priorities of the transport market and provided little customer benefit. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bravo, SPÖ!]] And it goes even further – I read only in summary –: It was not observed in the presentation of the financing relations with the newly established companies, in particular ÖBB and SCHIG, the Federal Budget Law. It is an entire list of points that only confirm my case crash after the first months, and it is really a reading that makes it clear how little structured transport policy has worked so far. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I should like to comment on some of the points you have raised. I hope we agree on one point: We have to leave a transport policy, which was set to reduce and avoid, because it has not brought anything, we are actually suffocating in traffic! [[Abg. Brosz: What?]] This has also led me to the topic of competition: There is no more competition between rail and road today, but a competition, and every mode of transport has the task it can best fulfil. [[Abg. Gaál: What is this, a "co-competition"?]] Mrs Lichtenberger! I am already on the subject that you have referred to: A federal road map is missing! – It is not only here in this report, but also the search has shown that it was not possible to draw up a federal road map. I could say now that there has never been a chance that all modes of transport have been combined in a ministry, but there has been a wealth of studies and – you have mentioned it – a wealth of expenditure aimed at drawing up a road map. For the first time, this issue is really being addressed. You don't need to be afraid that a coordinator will determine what transport policy is being made. On the contrary: All parties involved, all operators, all planning companies, the interest groups and, of course, the staff from the ministry are invited, because they have a great knowledge. And from this point of view, I also thank all those who have agreed to join us, and also very quickly with the data search, which started to collect the data so that we can really start to work out a plan – a plan that will enable a structured, coordinated and, above all, a financing infrastructure in that country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You know, I'm really glad when the expansion in the south is so strongly emphasized, and I stand by it. I agree that the south has always been disadvantaged and that it is important that we have a connection from the south to the north. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Eder: Why did the Reichhold withdraw?]] [[Call to the Freeman – towards the Abg. Eder –: You don't know about Carinthia]] We have to think in traffic corridors today! Where are the connections to the TEN and TINA networks? Why has financial participation been unsuccessful for the road network as well? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It has not succeeded because in the former Ministry of Transport it was not possible to ask for subsidies even for high-level motorways, for high-level TEN networks in road construction at all. It was not possible to ask the European financial bank because it was not possible because all the money requested was only invested for the rail. It is also true that the railway expansion is being forced. I'm just asking you where the structured planning has been. We've got a piece of work here. I am looking forward to the first presentation, if I can show it quite clearly at the national conference. Each of you knows his areas, knows his federal state, but: If you have an overall overview and look at the debt level, then we do not need to talk about a cover of the SCHIG framework, because it is already more than exhausted with the projects now prescribed, already more than exhausted. We are not talking about funding at all. This shows that there will be 234 billion schilling debts by the year 2010. But the generation contract also applies to the infrastructure, because we cannot invest in something that we consume today – look at the streets as quickly as they need to be preserved – but only our children will have to pay! Infrastructure is an investment in the future, so it is also important to work structured according to time and cost plans. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Considering that we still have documents available, a so-called master plan – two years ago he was valid – in which it stated that an extension of the West Railway extension of the A1 is not necessary, I wonder what the data base was working on here. We do not get around to acknowledge that traffic has grown, that we need both road and rail. And again: There is no competition, but every mode of transport must make the most of what it can best do. The goods and the large masses belong to the rail, and we also need a network. They have addressed the separation between sales and infrastructure and have repeatedly spoken of demolition. However, it is a clear separation, it is about competition. If we do not manage to create competition in such a way that we can also participate in private and then we really get the goods on the rails, it will not be possible to achieve a discharge in transport. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As in many other points, Mr Bodewig, Minister of Transport in Germany, is entirely my opinion on this point. In a very good interview he asserts that he and the railway manager agree that the Railway-AG could not be a provider in the operation of demanders and at the same time in the rail network. So he says to other quotations that we know from Germany that he agrees with the head of the railway about the need for the separation of network and operation. This is a very reasonable transport minister, with whom very many conversations can be held and which comes from the SPD. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Edler, there's something you can look away from!]] The essential aspect is not whether there will be one and what kind of social separation there will be, but it is essential that the customer should be at the centre again, the customer on the rail in freight transport, but also the customer in passenger transport. There are also some examples in the Court of Auditors' report that show that there has been large investments but that customer benefits have not increased. And that can't be! Therefore, I have appointed a Supervisory Board that stands for changes and for customer benefits, and there will also be a corresponding Board of Directors. Together one will consider what the construction of society must look like in order to meet all these requirements. The most important thing is that the customer is satisfied. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Lichtenberger! To your comments on the road map and the holiday ban: Be assured that I represent the position of Austria. You could already see it in the media today: A very clear no on the part of Austria. I can now inform you of a new information: Transport Minister Bodewig also sees that the French transport ministers are turning in and that we have a very strong alliance. This means that our efforts have been fruitful in the bilateral talks. But one thing I must say to you, Mrs Lichtenberger, especially in the case of Tyrol, transit agreement and long-term solution: Please also ensure that we have a uniform position, otherwise we cannot strengthen ourselves! We can only represent Austrian interests if we are strong. And here all the discussions about the height of the Brennermaut, the criminality, all these small national conflicts really have no place. We must have a strong position in Austria in order to be able to negotiate. And this is also my topic at the Transport Council in the next few days. There will also be a question of defending the 108 percent clause and the transit agreement once again. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] At the first meeting with the President of the Transport Council, we have already met with open ears for Austrian interests, as he will present the Commission report to the discussion. This gives us the opportunity to underline the Austrian position once again. However, it will not be voted on. At the same time, we will also present to the Commission the need to prepare a study on a long-term solution. We in Austria are already doing our tasks. In the ministry, intensive work is being done, and I invite you all, like on all other topics, whether transport or research, to work together to ensure that the future in Austria is a beautiful one for both transport and technology and other areas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7450	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7472	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We are in a situation where the sustainable renovation of the state budget needs to be done. With a decrease of 900 million schilling and 43 billion schilling total debt, which was 12.3 percent of gross domestic product at the time, the socialist government took over the budget from us 30 years ago. Up to the re-entry of the ÖVP into the government in 1986, socialist finance ministers managed to raise a budget drop of 105 billion schilling and a total debt of about 1,000 billion schilling. In the great coalition, we have temporarily managed to slow down debt growth, but a sustainable rehabilitation was not possible as a result of socialist waste disposal policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Full employment and no new debts have been written by this Federal Government on its flags. In order to provide a secure basis for life and more scope for future generations, we must now act. That is why we are doing everything we can to avoid new debts in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Key steps have been taken in the budget chapter on transport to ensure the development of infrastructure and to prepare transport policy for future tasks. A functioning economy requires intact traffic routes. The renovation and the six-track extension of the A1 must continue to be pursued. Similarly, the rail reform needs to be promoted in order to ensure an environmentally sound guarantee of mobility. There will be no separation of infrastructure and sales, because without competition the railway has no future. Another very important point for me is an intelligent solution in the area of motorway toll for trucks. The acquisition of a fully electronic system must take place as soon as possible in order to be able to provide the ASFINAG with the necessary resources to maintain and expand the high-level road network. I do not wish to mention in this context the positive cooperation with the federal states, which in many cases are willing to pre-finance infrastructure projects of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The failure of the Pyhrn motorway, which will be completed by 2004, is just one of many positive examples that prove how important we are taking the infrastructure. An intact transport structure is a prerequisite for a functioning European economic area. We are only at the beginning of a development. That is why it is our task now to take the necessary steps in the infrastructure. If we do, we can also fully benefit from the opportunity given by our situation in the middle of Europe in EU enlargement. The fact is that in the future international competition will become even stronger – a challenge for our economy, but also for us as a transport politician. It is we who are now setting the course to open up the opportunity for our businesses to remain internationally competitive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I advocate that infrastructure issues be seen as pan-European. A national solution will not meet market requirements in the long term. There must be a Europe-wide coordination in transport policy in order to reduce costs and increase efficiency. Only then can the European Union claim itself in international competition. Ladies and gentlemen! The 2002 transport budget is a big step in the right direction – no new debt means greater flexibility, a better competitive situation and, above all, a good starting position for the future of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7553	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7574	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I really did not trust my ears, my previous speaker Firlinger took the word "environmental" into his mouth, but unfortunately it remained with that word. I just heard this one word. Mrs. Minister! I didn't trust my ears, because you didn't take the word "environmental" into your mouth at all. They only pointed out – I have written this exactly as far as I could – that previous transport policy was aimed at avoiding and reducing and therefore missing. I heard that from your mouth! Well, I can only make a renunciation of the one word I once heard, and I didn't even hear that it is completely irrelevant for you to know how traffic in Austria is developing! That was determined once. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why our approaches, our approaches and our criteria in transport policy are so important. I am absolutely clear that you and your colleague from Germany are relatively quick to agree with the SPD or become a trading partner, or are actually designing common strategies. This is because this is also a conventional form of transport policy. According to a comment from your general traffic planner, Dr. Oismüller – who has been known to us for decades as a transport planner of various projects that were always controversial – the issue of emissions will have been solved by 2005. I don't know what he meant by that, I can only imagine that he meant it, either the people have become totally immune or it doesn't drive anymore, and I don't accept the latter because he's finally a traffic planner coming from this industry. With this one quote, I would like to point out that you, Mrs Minister, may not have made you the most skilled gentleman of your general traffic planner, but that you may, as it is usual, make a bock a gardener. I mean, Mrs Minister, this warning is urgently necessary, even here in the House, because you still have it in hand before you pass it on to Mr Oismüller. I could tell you a few more stories. You have certainly taken over a difficult heritage, that is no question. I don't envy you, you have millstones to deal with over millstones. It is not easy to bring the cars on at least ten different trans-European routes back in a way that could benefit Austria and, above all, the population. You yourself said that the General Transport Plan was a fishing point, an approach. They also make your transport policy choices from philosophy. If you really leave someone like Mr Oismüller on these levers, that means that you're more or less the old word – what is it called in Germany? – "Bahn free" or "autobahn free for the German citizen" or "for the German citizen". [[Abg. Böhacker: "Free ride for free citizens"!]] – Yes, yes, thank you! You know about the liberals! [[Abg. Böhacker: I just got it out of the paper!]] So: "Freeway for free citizens!" [[Abg. Böhacker: Free ride!]] Well, you see, I'm just a convinced train driver, I've taken the card with me, too, so it hardly gets me over the lips, that it strengthens "Free ride for free citizens!" I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. My starting point would be that this general transport plan should really be based on climate change and Kyoto objectives. Mrs Verkehrsminister! You may not have noticed that your colleague, Mr Molterer, has repeatedly said that we need to achieve the Kyoto objective. Minister Bartenstein, former Minister for the Environment, also raised the Kyoto target high and expensive at the time. Mrs. Minister! However, for you this seems to be a foreign word, I have not heard it today. This would have to be a headline on the general transport plan, on your transport policy and also on your budget: Kyoto target! They know that 33 percent of CO2 emissions are transport-related and that it will be relatively easy in the transport sector to reduce emissions from the cost of the economy. This is exactly where you have to hook in, instead of releasing it more or less and allowing people from circles to play in the hands of lobbies who are working more strongly against the Kyoto target. We are... - Thank you! [[Abg. Böhacker: (a train map holding up) Mrs. Colleague! Look, I also have a train ticket!]] Then we may be able to meet each other on the train, Mr President. [[Abg. Böhacker: I also have a train ticket!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I also wanted to win you for the Kyoto target, and maybe I've already won you with it. Please put more weight on it in your party and help your minister that you really write it as a goal about your actions! Otherwise we won't make it! And that would cost us money too, because we have committed ourselves internationally to achieving this reduction in emissions. If we don't reach it, we'll be sued. Transport policy would really be very possible in the direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister! The ÖBB is a way to achieve the Kyoto objective, and it is quite possible to discuss whether it is useful to make this separation between infrastructure and operation. A separation, however, which I would personally be concerned about would be the one between freight and passenger transport. The problem lies in the fact that passenger transport is deficient, and if the money generated in freight transport was left to freight traffic, they would buy hundreds of thousands of "Taurus" locomotives, which would cover Europe with "Taurus" locomotives because that brings something. But there would be no money going into passenger transport. I don't know any locomotive that would have been purchased for long-distance transport in Austria. "Taurus" is to be used for the goods. Which locomotive transports the long-distance transport? I really see here – what this means for the timetables has already addressed my colleague – an erosion coming upon us. They come from Upper Austria anyway. The Pyhrnbahn will be quite thinned out again on schedule; there may only be more cross-border connections to Graz. Please, these are two capitals! And in Styria, the industrialists – read this in the "EconomiesBlatt" – also demand an expansion of the Pyrn line. The Pyrn track on the track has a future; especially if you extend it over the Summerauerbahn. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This has led us to a second major problem, the competition between road and rail, which is particularly common in the Mühlviertel between the Summerauerbahn and the B 301. There are variants for the expansion of the B 301, which lie with the country. While you have – and I am therefore referring to your responsibility – certain possibilities for participation, at the end of the day it will probably be decided by the opinions at national level. However, your responsibility lies in the TEN-Rang survey. If the B 301 – whether it's going to be a highway or a motorway or an expanded, improved federal road – comes into the TEN network, you know very well that You can no longer use transport policy instruments such as night driving bans, weekend bans, holiday bans or tonage restrictions, then you have put this piece of road along with other TEN connections virtually extraterritorially and left EU rules, and they run towards liberalisation. I warn you, I strongly warn you of an offensive TEN project for the streets in Austria. They give something out of their hands, and they mainly deliver to the population. You can no longer limit traffic traffic, you can no longer impose no more night-trafficking bans, you can no longer protect people from trans-European movements on the road. Please, don't rob yourself of this instrument! Two more essential comments: Scientific support is necessary for your general transport plan. Why did you shorten the grants to the VCÖ? I think the VCÖ is making very important contributions to Austria's transport policy. Unfortunately, time is already quite advanced, but I still have to lose a word on the telecommunications situation in Austria; two comments allow me to say: This afternoon, three ladies and gentlemen from Telekom Austria AG – Mr. Firlinger, I say "AG" – were here. The Republic still has 47.8 percent of this AG, the Court of Auditors can examine Telekom AG. You have not been released from political responsibility! With Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance She still has political responsibility for Telekom AG. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Please take this responsibility primarily in one direction: 12 000 workers will be "outsourced" by 2005 and will be terminated, somehow taken out of the company. And the way – I emphasize the way – how these people are dealt with is something that destroys people. I heard this afternoon, hit 5:00 p.m., that five people committed suicide there, because they had partly received the termination at 2:00 p.m., then they should still be on night duty and go after that. It is humanly totally unbearable how it deals with the employees. I understand that because of the stock exchange and the entire programme that was set up in 1996, it is being restructured. That this happens in such a brutal way – you are also in duty! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hagenhofer: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Put this under us! It's really unbearable!]] Please show that you really have what Mr. Landeshuptmann, on whose calls from Carinthia you otherwise quite respect, recommended, also show these employees to the heart! Go to them, talk to them, and make sure that we really do the right thing! This was really a personal concern to me, and I would like to sacrifice some other topics, for example, not going into the Universal Service Regulation, and just say: Don't forget to the many trailers of transmission mast systems! There is still no agreement between mobile operators and the city government, just what the information is about. A fundamental right to information, not even that is guaranteed! I mean, you could certainly deal with this minimal need for action in the near future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7750	Mr Wattaul is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7779	Mr President. Minister! Obviously, Mr Kurt Eder, the SPÖ's Transport Speaker, is so excited by our Minister that he no longer has to worry about transport policy. He left all of this to us. You have to hold it here once. Mrs. Lichtenberger! I need to tell you something: Drive by train, don't sign! If you have 15,000 signatures and no one is driving the train, that won't help at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now I come to the third country riders, and I have to say quite clearly here: This too is a failure of the socialist group. Third country drivers are those who have registered their vehicles in Luxembourg, employ drivers from Eastern countries and then are just driving illegally. You'll know that. To this end, I have to tell you honestly, Mrs. Ministers has already prepared something for the next EU Council. There's a point in there that you're going to introduce a driver's license. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: We have long called for that!]] So Mrs. Minister has been working on this, which has recognized the problem for a long time. But I admit that these circumstances are really crazy. This must be done immediately, with one thing to say: At the moment, Austria has no corresponding law. Only Germany can control companies from abroad. This is currently not possible in Austria. That belongs repaired, but it's working on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7824	Mr Edler is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7845	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For entry only the following to the address of the government parties: Their legends about public debt, they don't move anymore. The Vienna election result has clearly shown this. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] We were able to inform people that social democracy has made Austria a social state over the last 30 years from a poor house to a modern welfare state. You have to take note of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] To the address of the ÖVP: Mrs Gehrer was sitting on the government bank today. I would not be so sure, and Mr President Fassleven, too, should not be so, because they were in the last common savings budget that we decided in the Coalition Government in 1996 and 1997, according to the Court of Auditors reports that minister and those ministers who overlaid the most. Therefore, one should not always blame social democracy if you are sitting in the glass house yourself. [[Abg. Wattaul: But you didn't bring anything together!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Kurt Eder has addressed the essentials. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: He has washed it down! You should put on a new plate!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I have already said this in committee, but I have to repeat it: They have pursued a non-traffic policy until now. They have made substantial announcements today about which we have referred in calls: Yes, that would be the right way! But why don't you put that into practice? – You have the Prinzhorn people in your neck, and you have people from the ÖVP like Mr. Kukacka – we had to take note of that over and over again – as a prellbock, as a railway block, as a multi-Bahn obstacle. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What?]] That's your problem. Ladies and gentlemen! As a railway operator, I would of course like to address the ÖBB. We have an ÖBB, which is on a success course, which is the top of Europe, and we could be proud of it together. It is thanks to so many professional groups. I would also like to thank my colleagues from the railways for their services they provide for Austria. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fink.]] And just briefly, because you say again and again, there's a reform store in the Austrian Bundesbahnen, there's nothing going on: It is painful for me, as a trade union and social democrat, if I have to note that 20 000 jobs have been lost in the Austrian Federal Railways since 1992. [[Abg. Zweytick: The union and the social democrats are responsible for this!]] I am personally sorry, but reforms have been implemented here. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: But there has not yet been a freedom minister! Why do you always care about us? That's the community! She's embarrassing!]] We have increased the transport of goods from 50 million tonnes to almost 85 million tonnes at the time. – ÖBB on a success course! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The current Director-General Draxler is not necessarily a friend of the railway trade union – there are serious conflicts – but he has certainly started a railway course, which can be said: Okay, you can discuss this, and you can certainly build a model for the future. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There you can congratulate the ÖBB!]] Director-General Draxler has also proposed a holding model, which makes it possible to separate sales from infrastructure. Mrs. Federal Minister! Who says that the Germans must be inside as two societies? This is not at all addressed there, but the accounting systems are addressed. And that, ladies and gentlemen, we could without a doubt implement in Austria also at the Austrian Federal Railways, where in Austria we have already decided in the last legislative period the rail regulator to make sure that liberalisation on the railways, on the railways, takes place. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: May I congratulate you? Let's congratulate you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Kurt Ederhat mentioned it already, and I would also like to repeat this: It is incomprehensible if a policy is addressed here to conceal state property, because that is what the concept, the so-called secret concept, now looks like. I can't imagine that you were surprised that the coalition partner – Molterer, Bartenstein, Kukacka – has created a secret paper ÖBB behind your back, which is intended to destroy and conceal state assets. That can't be your policy, Mrs Federal Minister, but you didn't say that at all. As a Member of Vienna, I would like to address the transport situation in the Greater Vienna region in particular, and I hope that in the coming debates with the Heads of State or Government you will also do away with what has been a cause of displeasure in recent months. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What should she do?]] Mrs. Minister, your statement, that is "treason to Austria", is a small political scandal, not a question. I've already said that. I do not think that is necessary for Pröll, Niessl and especially Häupl, because they have thought about how we could solve the problems of transport infrastructure in the eastern region. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You only required 100 billion!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We must be aware: Vienna is our common federal capital, and if the trans-European rail networks are not connected here, not only loses Vienna, but then Austria loses. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: The transit of railway around Austria is also no solution!]] Mr Graf! We also need in Vienna – especially our districts of Floridsdorf and Donaustadt – the north-east crossing, and I now hope that Parliamentary Count was not only active in the election campaign – the election in the district of Donaustadt – with statements, but he is really working for the Federal Minister for the north-east of Vienna. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Bring in, don't drive around Austria!]] I am personally fighting for the S 80 expressway, and in this regard we will still have talks. Finally, Mrs. Federal Minister – you have certainly read this –: [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date]] More railway policy is needed. We have a truck-horror on the road. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8065	Mrs Mag. Hakl is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8093	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! – This is my time, my dear colleague. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What did you do for my railway, Lokführer? What did you do for my railway?]] It's no longer portable, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder and Mr Edler both addressed the railway reform, and Mr Eder said at the outset: Mrs. Federal Minister, you're scaring the employees of the Austrian Federal Railways. – I can only say: If I were at the Bundesbahnen – and I also know what I am talking about – then I would be afraid if something had not happened soon, more and more happened than before in the Austrian Federal Railways and in Austrian Transport Policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have a neighbouring country with the Federal Republic of Germany, which already had a huge problem at the end of 1990, huge deficits on the railways and finally adopted a law for a major railway reform in 1993. At the time, the aim was to ensure mobility environmentally sound, improve competitive conditions, at the same time create a financially independent company and to improve the company financially. We know today – many of our colleagues in the coalition spoke to Mr Brunnhuber, Transport Speaker of the CDU a few days ago – that the reform in Germany did not work for a reason: because there was no clear separation of sales and infrastructure. And I can tell you, Mr. Eder: In contrast to you, Mr Brunnhuber has also been able to admit the mistakes made by his government at the time, and that is also worthy of admiration. It was also very interesting what the CDU spokesperson said about what he considered to be the most important transport project between Germany and Austria. He meant: It is particularly important that Austria expands the Unterinntal, because this is the most important transport transversal for southern Germany. He also said that Germany would even be willing to agree to subsidize the Brenner Base Tunnel by means of cross-financing, i.e. accept it. Ladies and gentlemen! I think these two most important things we can learn from the German CDU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8136	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8158	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Your first answer, Mrs. Forstinger, has given me enough opportunity to roll down today and really discuss the ÖBB with you. I still think you're talking about a phantom you don't know, because you'd know the ÖBB, the state of the ÖBBB and know how the employees at the ÖBB, then, Mrs. Minister, you couldn't say what you said. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister! You know, I'm a regular train driver, I drive very intensively with the ÖBB. I also see it as my task to care for the train companions a little, at least a piece on the way from Vienna to mostly St. Valentin, for as they do, Mrs. Minister, no one seems to have asked about it. They have said that with all investments, with all that is made at the ÖBB, it is about the customer benefit account in passenger transport. Mrs. Minister, that's very interesting, that's really very interesting. Now I would like to give you a few examples of how you, with your customer benefit account in the passenger transport sector, can, of course, only take advantage of it and have just the next skin. I saw only last week – I think it was Sunday – in the "Kronen Zeitung" a large advertisement with which the so-called machines for the purchase of tickets were advertised. I believed I wasn't right, and I really looked at it twice, because I didn't think it was possible. It is advertised for machines and for the railway customers of these machines to operate. Mrs Minister, I'm just asking you: Where are they supposed to serve? At the stations these machines are not! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Contradict with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Achatz: Oh yes, there are them in Linz!]] Should they record a machine at home, or what should they do? This is really an increase in railway customers! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Go to the Draxler! Go to the Lokführer! The nobler is responsible for the machines!]] I have been in Salzburg for the last 14 days – I am regular in Vienna anyway – I was in Linz, I was in Graz. We were a group of people, and we were bitingly looking for a machine where we could have solved a map from Graz to Vienna, and not just me, but we all didn't find him, Mrs. Minister. [[Abg. Achatz: There are machines in Linz!]] I am very curious about your answer to my question, in which I asked you to call me the locations where these machines are. I know that the answer to this question will be very brief. There are no machines. [[Abg. Achatz: Mrs. Minister is not responsible for this!]] Most importantly, they're being applied for by millions. This, Mrs. Minister, is your missing policy. With such things, you can't do a customer benefit account in the passenger traffic, because it will always be negative in the interests of the customers, because they only have expenses and no counter-offering, namely in this case the machines. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister! It is also strongly applied to this so-called internet booking. I'm not happy with that. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is great!]] Yeah, I've done it before. It's "excellent": You can always book only one route and no return trip. To do this, you need to re-enter the program. Maybe you'll just go somewhere and never go back. I don't know. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That can be a twelve-year-old!]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Now you can at least print the ticket! It wasn't possible before!]] I also drove back and had to print out two A4 pages. And now it's coming, Mrs. Minister! The hit of this whole matter is the: The train companion has such a big Kastl – you will probably not know that – and in this Trumm Kastl he now has to type in three highly complicated seven-digit codes if he wants to take this internet ticket from me. For typing these three really highly complicated codes – these are combinations of digits and letters, but not that the numbers would be first and then the letters, but that would be completely messed up; in any case, the train companion must type in three such codes – he needs exactly two minutes if he is very quick to catch a ticket. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is a code of numbers and numbers!]] And if train users are very vivacious now, they buy themselves if they only travel from Vienna to St. Pölten, not a map, but hope that some already have these Internet cards. [[Abg. Böhacker: (a form to the height) That's how it looks!]] If 40 of these cards have to be checked by the train companion, the rest can drive for free, because it can never show its cards because it already rises again. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This is your customer benefit in the ÖBB. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But who is responsible for this?]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Mrs. Colleague, this is an online ticket from the Internet!]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: But the ÖBB general director is not called Forstinger!]] At some point I'll write a book about the ÖBB. It won't be saved from me. You, Mrs. Minister, really give me enough stuff for that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is the Forstinger – and not the Draxler!]] You also give me enough stuff to talk about how this station offensive should continue. You know, in St. Valentin, the tracks are ready. But what's going on now? St. Valentin's station is supposed to be abandoned de facto. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's not true!]] Of course! There are only more regional trains to St. Valentin, and the trains travelling from St. Pölten to Linz are to stop in St. Valentin – not according to this timetable, but already in the next one. Mrs. Minister, do you think the people are crazy and are going to Linz just so that they can take the same route back to Steyr? What do you think people are for? Do you think I'm going for an hour, and maybe two or three times a week? It can't be! What have you developed the St. Valentin railway station for if you can only see it now in the pass and can no longer get out of it if you are not willing to take a commuting train from Vienna? Or, Mrs. Minister, Steyr Station: You know, even there we now have a half-way beautiful train station. Beautiful are the tracks, but the station building was renovated at the beginning of the fifties for the last time. On the outer walls there are still the shooting holes – they are plastered – of the Second World War. This station should not be rebuilt now, it should stay the way it is, only new toilets should we get. Mrs. Minister! Do you think people are going to the station just because they have to go to the toilet? [[Lively cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: I'm going to the station in principle!]] People go to the station because they want to drive away, people go to the station because they may want to buy a train ticket there and may have to wait until the train comes, but not to go to the toilet. Please do not put your initiative in the toilet facilities, which are of course important! But that alone can't be in the station offensive. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'm really giving you a good tip: Make decent clones not at the stations, but in the trains, because there they would be much more important! If you look at these new city shuttles and the "wissel", there are no wheelchair toilets there, for example. I don't know if you know that. And do you know why there's no one there? Because the ÖBB say that on a distance of 200 kilometres, no man goes to the toilet. [[Newly lively hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: We've heard all this before!]] Yes, then listen to this for a second time! Maybe then you'll be so smart that you know that you also need a toilet on the train. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] But they haven't learned from it, because there are still no toilets on the trains. [[Abg. Böhacker: Am I Director-General Draxler?]] But it wasn't. I can tell you a few things that are very important. [[Abg. Achatz: Make Minister One responsible!]] The City Shuttles, the "Wisel" and many others have only come to Minister One, and they have no clones. So this cannot be the Minister. One was alone, but some were still involved afterwards. [[Abg. Ahatz: Aha! And now it's Mrs. Forstinger alone! Isn't it?]] Mrs. Forstinger is now responsible, she has selected herself. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I didn't ask her to become an infrastructure minister. Not me! Mrs. Minister! [[Abg. Wattaul: Have you filed a mistrust request?]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Achatz: Make a request for distrust!]] I have a question to ask you: What do I have to do to get, like your "simple party member" Jörg Haider got the Koralpen tunnel, the reconstruction of the station in Steyr and the completion of the station in St. Valentin? [[Abg. Neudeck: What do you want for a tunnel?]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Maybe you can answer that. I'll do that because it can't be very difficult. Mr. Haider got his Koralpen tunnel very quickly, so I would have to get my investment soon. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You need a successful election success!]] But I do not expect it, Mrs Minister, because you are really not willing to invest money where it is necessary. They now leave half finished stations more or less in the conversion phase. Probably they'll be broken in ten years before they've even been finished. This, Mrs. Minister, is wasteful of tax money, and this waste can prevent or promote you. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] But just as the new concept of your station offensive looks, you'll have tossed the money out the window for free. I found an article in the magazine "NEWS" last week on how the ÖBB should look out in the future for what they have done there, what they want to do. For example, it says that 2 100 kilometres are to be distributed. Mrs Minister, if they are distributed, what happens to them? - You'll be left out! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Then the "houses" are judged!]] [[Abg. Wattaul: There's a train on it!]] Then it says in this paper that 29 sideways are to be left out. [[Abg. Wattaul: That's not true!]] Yeah, what does that mean? – That there is only one train from Vienna to Bregenz and back again? [[Abg. Neudeck: St. Valentin!]] [[Abg. Wattaul: To Steyr!]] And who today, for example, needs to get out of St. Pölten to continue with a sidecar, he just had bad luck?- Oh, my God! Mrs. Minister! What does it mean if there is a need to reduce another 2 100 to 3 800 ÖBB staff in passenger transport? At whose cost will this destruction go? This goes at the expense of the railway users, and it also goes at the expense of the remaining ÖBB staff, because then a train companion no longer has to control seven or eight wagons alone, but then he has to control ten and twelve wagons alone. And that will not be possible in practice, even if you continue to offer this ticket purchase on the Internet so bravouros. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Because you stop people from working!]] Then those who travel by train will only drive more because they can drive for free because the train companion is no longer able to control the cards ever. [[Abg. Wattaul: If no one travels, he doesn't need to control it anyway!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That's not true! I was always checked!]] Yeah, you're so rare, that's why. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: No, no, no!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Who are you going to be with?]] Mrs. Minister! I really expect you to give me concrete answers to my questions. I'm still lucky that I always manage to see this as really funny. I can also laugh about it sometimes and others seem to be too. But it's not funny, Mrs. Minister, if you get into a train today and don't even know if at the next station where you want to leave, there's someone else to help you get out of the train again. You don't know that, nor do I. Only: You get out alone, and I can't get out alone. That's the difference. You get out where you want, I may have to go on under compulsion. It should be a matter of course today that on every train there is a decent toilet, which can be used not only by a part of the population or part of the passengers, but by all who are on the train. Mrs Minister, it is really sad that you have to mention this time and again. It's the most natural thing in the world that someone has to go to the toilet. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We do not demand utopia, these are our normal basic needs that we want to cover. And that, please, mustn't be impossible!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8755	The next speaker is Mr Sodian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8776	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder spoke of a "lost year" as well as of the fact that no infrastructure measures would be taken. – I call you a few numbers with which this is clearly disputed. Infrastructure expenditure in the 2002 budget reaches a record value of 37.3 billion schilling. This is 13 billion schilling for the road, which is an increase of 45 percent compared to the 1999 budget, i.e. your budget. For the rail there is a record budget of 16.6 billion schilling. This is a 36 percent increase compared with 1999 and a 13 percent increase compared to the previous year. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Zweytick.]] We will invest 7.7 billion schilling in building in 2002. This amounts to 37.3 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen. We have therefore, whether you want it or not, increased the budget in the area of infrastructure compared to 28 billion schilling, which you spend in 1999 this year to 37 billion schilling for the next year. This is a plus – ah, Mr. Eder is there, that's nice – of 8 billion schilling. [[Abg. Eder: Yes, but for what?]] For what? For the whole of the infrastructure, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Eder: For road construction!]] For the road and for the rail; for the rail by 13 per cent more, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Eder: Especially for road construction! Tell me!]] In total, we spend 37 billion. [[Abg. Eder: Totally more debt!]] And that's very important. Why? – We know that construction investment has a multiplier effect and thus an employment effect. That's very important to us. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Eder: You make more debts!]] But please, you did. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: But not as you do with your concept: a piece of pea, a piece of pea!]] We have increased from 28 to 37 billion Schilling in total. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eder.]] I don't have enough time now, Mr. Eder. I'd love to go after you. This will increase the employment of many people in Austria, and many construction projects will be implemented. That is why it is an essential progress that we have achieved in the field of infrastructure. Every year with a Minister of Transport is a year won, Mr Eder! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8918	Mrs Sophie Bauer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8942	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since we are discussing the 2002 budget today, it would have been important that in the 2001 budget report the sales proceeds from the privatisation measures of ÖIAG, which have been implemented so far, namely the proceeds from the sale of P.S.K.'s share rights, the shares rights of Telekom Austria AG, the shares in Flughafen Wien AG and the 100 percent shares of the Austrian state printing company, would have been shown individually in order to determine the effect of the individual measures. Since this is not the case, Mrs Federal Minister, the question is why the four posts I have just mentioned were not listed separately. Is that because you went to the stock exchange a little bit quickly with the Telekom share? [[Abg. Zweytick: Too late! Too late!]] ==References== In November of the previous year, the Telekom share was available for the first time, at an issue rate of 9 j. At the end of January this course even fell on the shaking low of 5.86 y. Ladies and gentlemen, even the Telekom-Austria boss Heinz Sundt was appalled at this crash of the stock. Sundt said that 5 000 employees were additionally released over a period of five further years. A large part of the personnel reduction is expected to take place in 2001 and 2002, and 1 000 people have already been released last year. Minister of Finance Grasser saw in the privatisation a positive instrument for employees and the labour market at that time. He assured me that no employee should be afraid of his job. The truth is that 1,000 employees have already been terminated. This is the policy you pursue on the back of the weakest and those who are afraid of their job. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: But climate has received a post!]] - You can give it to yourself. They will always blame others for it, just not themselves. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Climate has not allowed modernisation all the time!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! When granting the budget, you should act with the level of equal treatment. Why do I say that? – Carinthia has received about 120 million schilling for programs without a dosage. How or from what budget items do these 120 million schilling come outside the already existing programmes for the Federal Republic of Carinthia? Mrs. Federal Minister! Will the other eight federal states also receive these 120 million? Was that at all in line with the other federal states? How will you treat the other heads of state if they present equally good concepts? [[Abg. Böhacker: But this is not a question hour today!]] Research and development is important for every project. Mrs. Federal Minister! It should be clear to you that such practices involve a playout of the individual federal states. In response to my written question concerning this 120 million schillings, you have only given an elusive answer. I would ask you to give me a clear answer today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9069	Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9091	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We have already talked a lot about investment today. In particular, the setting of priorities is crucial. We have already talked about education today, now we are talking about research, technology and development, because we all know that these areas in particular are a guarantee for a future labour market policy and for a future-looking location policy. I can remind you that we started an intensive research and development offensive in the previous year – keyword: 7 billion Schilling – I can remind you that the Council of Research and Technology Development Council is very important for these decisions. This Council again last Tuesday, and a recommendation has been made to invest a further 1.3 billion schilling. We know that this technology offensive, this research and development offensive, has also motivated the economy to become an initiative. I should like to mention here a very central, important project, which is crucial not only for Lower Austria, but also especially for Austria: the large-scale research project "Austron". As soon as possible, all the preparatory work needs to be carried out as soon as possible, as many experts say that this is the last way to get a research project in this dimension to Austria for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9126	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9147	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would also like to talk to you about these technology billions or billions of dollars in connection with the introduction of the chancellor and his deputy chancellor on the university reform and the technology offensive. They will remember that at the time, one of the connoisseurs of this project presented an idea of a "break-up to the future", a Wifo skier, an econometric study whose sukkus was, in the end, nothing but to say: These 7 billion are encouraging, thank you also politely, but they would by far not be enough to create the break of the Federal Government, in 2002 to 2% and in 2005 to reach these ominous – or say great instead of ominous – 2.5 percent of GDP for research and development. The bill is relatively simple. GDP is around 2 300 billion schilling. How much one percent of it is easy to calculate, which is 23 billion schilling. But you can't do that through a unique investment. It can be achieved for one year, but not until 2005. In other words, 23 billion would have to be invested annually in order to achieve this goal of the Federal Government. It is fair to divide this by two, of course, because the economy is expected to be something, or even more than two, because the share of the economy in this research and technology product in GDP is rather scarce, compared with other industrial nations. Now, according to Gernot, missing Hug riders 70 billion schilling, and here I already allow myself the question: Is it so difficult to find that 7 billion are a tenth of it? And is it so difficult to understand – even if the budget is difficult to read, because your research and technology expenditure is ultimately going to be extended to three resorts – that with these 7 billion people can't find out, or do you count on and for themselves that no one understands this model bill of skiers or no one has heard it? Now I'd like to know: What does Grasser imagine? I mean, you're not going to think of every one of his dreams or even not know his ideas, but you have to have ideas about how to deal with allegations, if you are – probably wrong – to do too little on the budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, even if the government parties always claim the opposite, it is not gratifying – that is what all experts say – that these agendas are now divided into three departments. That's a problem. You have told us that you will endeavour to make the best possible correlations between the three resorts. Finally – and in turn, I like to admit that, you do not have to bear the blame primarily – only relatively vague promises have been made here, properly hand-resistant Acceptables except the grants for FWF, except Doppler Lab support, K-ind and K-plus projects are not available. Furthermore, all commitments are always linked to the non-interesting addition "in the case of budgetary coverage", "provided that savings can be made in other areas". So offensives that need so many conditions, of which one knows that only a fraction will meet, stand on weak legs and thus also chancellors and vice chancellors who both promised. I also consider it misleading in the budget, if in Tables 24 and 25, I believe that these 7 billion schillings are recorded for 2001 and actually do not appear at all – and that then leads to thinking errors or to inadequate optimism – that these 7 billion shillings are to be expected in principle by 2003. This makes a difference: If I have a plus of – na great in the budget! – 7 billion sees, so it makes up the increase, but if I divide it through three, then of course it comes out considerably less. I would therefore ask that Mr Grasser also be accused of the legibility of the budget, even if he is likely to have more joy if one cannot read the budget and does not understand it. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] One important point, of course, is also: How are these 7 billion shillings spent? The Federal Government has installed this Council for Research and Technology Development. In principle, on the other hand, one cannot use a lot, but it is already allowed to look at it with some skepticism. Parliament should know that this Council will, of course, make recommendations for budget allocations, and that you and others, probably for psychological or political reasons, will be well advised to follow this Council. What else do you have him for? In other words: This Council is passing a number of decisions on these sums to Parliament. It should also be made clear. Parliament no longer has its hands on it. Now I read K-ind and K-plus here – with Doppler I would have few concerns... [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Mr. Grünewald, as before!]] As before. But You want to do better! "As before" you should not be satisfied. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: No, the decision!]] Even in the decision, "as before" should not be an excuse for you. If I remember what I was doing in conferences – these were very kind invitations I received – from the Council for Research and Technology Development, where also They were present, heard, then did not fill me all with boundless optimism. It's just a little anecdode. Of course, there were honoured industrial captains and managers invited, few of the universities were there – that may even be the university's fault – and there one speaks to me and says he is now going to a world champion. I've thought that's probably related to research now, and I'm going to ask myself. He says: No, it's a Roman cook, so he's looking forward to dinner. These were the debates in the Council for Research and Technology Development, and I must say that in this society I feel even if it is a good one... [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's cheap!]] No, that's not disgusting. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Cheap!]] I am not saying that everyone has gone to a world champion of Roman food, but not everyone who is there is so interested in research that I expect the fulfillment of what universities and the Republic, if you want to, should expect and want to do. That means, I think, you really have to distinguish: What is called promoting applied research and what is pure economic promotion? If one does not differentiate between a nationalization of the risk and the privatisation of profits and if one thinks that one buys a company a computer and perhaps an ultrasound device, if, so to speak, only the shift from the state of knowledge to technology and the economy is taking place, then this is not research funding. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I really ask – I agree with you – to take this into account and enter into a dialogue with the universities. You could find here – now I'm talking in the conjunctive – allies that you might be happy about in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9272	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9293	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In my contribution to the debate, I would like to speak a few words on the development of rail infrastructure. You know that the funding of the railways is regulated through the Schig, and the financial framework of the Schilling is 143 billion. This framework has now been used mainly with already approved transmission regulations. If the approved construction projects in place are to be carried out by train, this funding framework shall be fully exploited by 2007 or 2008. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential, on the one hand, to establish a new priority line for existing projects and, on the other hand, to make a clear commitment to new forms of funding so that, in the future, the expansion of the transport infrastructure can also be promoted from the point of view of east enlargement. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Many experts and experts agree that the Westbahn should be forced, and I would like to refer in particular to the part from Vienna about the Tullnerfeld to St. Pölten. The cost is around 15 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's the mayor of Neulengbach!]] As the approvals for the first construction phase are now also available, I would ask that the construction be started within the shortest time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was the final applause!]] The problem is, of course, that there is no transmission regulation in this area. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I think that the new general transport plan will also set the course properly there and that the extension of this part will begin in Bälden. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9348	Member of the European Parliament Binder is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9370	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus on transport safety. The 2000 balance sheet shows a decrease in the number of deaths in traffic accidents by minus 10 percent in the 1999/2000 period. A total of around 42 000 road accidents occurred in 2000 and there were 55 000 injuries. It is also evident, ladies and gentlemen, that in recent times a large number of transport safety measures have been implemented which have also demonstrated their impact, such as the introduction of the speed limits of 100 and 130 kilometres per hour, the introduction of belt and helmet requirements, the reduction of the Promille limit, the use of alcomats, the use of laser devices for speed measurements. The main cause of the accident remains the unadapted speed. The percentage is 36.3 percent. Other causes, for example, are with a share of 11.8 percent priority injuries, with 10.5 percent overtaking maneuvers, with 5.5 percent the problem of alcohol, with 5.2 percent the cases of fatigue, with 4.4 percent the behaviour of pedestrians. The figures and facts, ladies and gentlemen, are formally calling for a comprehensive transport safety programme. Mrs Minister, we are waiting, above all we are waiting for a national road safety concept. Within the EU, a ten-year programme to increase road safety at Member State level will be implemented with concrete objectives, but I think that the basis for Austria must be a national programme. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The aim, ladies and gentlemen, is to stop having road fatalities and, on the other hand, fewer road accidents. The right to health and life must also apply to road users. How can this objective be achieved? – There is a wealth of proposals, such as a change of consciousness towards partnership, changing behaviour, raising ownership, accepting the rules by road users, focusing on traffic monitoring and traffic control, i.e. precise controls and non-chicans, transport organisational and road construction measures, better and more extensive steering training and, among other things, compensation of accident frequency points. In fact, proposals and ideas are comprehensive and detailed on the table, which is missing, are implementation and implementation. I think it's time, because – I agree with Dr. Othmar Thann's statement from the Curatorium for Transport Safety, which says –: Every saved human life counts! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Safety, ladies and gentlemen, is a priority, and this is also true of the railways. There I can join Mrs Haidlmayr and underline every point she has raised. She is truly an expert on the situation of Austrian railways. I could add a lot of additions. I think, Mrs. Minister, responsible for passenger transport, Mr. Chief Executive Officer Stindl. I would take him to prayer very seriously once. I can only tell the train station St. Valentin: A small part of the expansion will continue. With regard to the stoppage of high-speed connections, I hope that I will find an ally in Mrs Haidlmayr when it comes to ensuring the connection of the Steyr railway and the Donauferbahn to the Westbahn. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, safety and quality assurance in the railways is an essential issue, and I hope that the decisions you will take in the near future will also be in the foreground of the railways in this regard. Finally, even if it is not a question of time, there is one question: What's new about the sideways, Mrs. Minister? As a representative of Lower Austria, I am particularly interested in this, of course, because the closure and cessation of the secondary railways would be a massive threat to the future, the accessibility, jobs and prosperity of all things in the rural regions, and these are truly not future prospects that are optimistic. Mrs. Minister! Make your decisions! Get active! If the well-being and satisfaction of the people really are at your heart: Please, in their sense!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9446	Mr Fink is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9467	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the organization representative Edler is not in the room. He is well aware that these ministries have been run by socialist transport ministers over the last 30 years and that some 700 billion schillings have been granted to state subsidies at this time. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How much?]] About 700 billion, it could also be a little more, it could also be the 800 billion. You'd have to ask yourself: What did you do about it? I don't think anything. You made zero of it. But I think it's still wrong what I'm saying now. The fact that you have not done anything about it will not be right, because you have made more debts from what the policy of the Socialists is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people of the left half of the empire! [[Abg. Schwemlein: We don't want to have anything to do with rich people!]] You can't blame anyone for preventing the decisive modernisation of others. It was only prevented by you. Nothing happened in the railway sector in Austria. I believe that it was the inability of those responsible in the government and of course also in the trade union, which prevented timely modernisation. [[Abg. Neudeck: Especially in the union!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My friends from the union! Unfortunately, that is the truth. For years, the ÖBB have put the ÖBB in the corner. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A good sentence!]] Insurmountable polemics of socialist union officials cannot cover up the failures.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9560	Mr Dobnigg is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9581	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to deal with a subject in my current statements, on the basis of which it shows itself to be new, which is hidden behind the motto "Rerule Austria" by this Federal Government. "Re-government Austria" means the sale of successful Austrian industrial companies for you, which entails the loss of Austrian industrial cores and thus the transfer of important know-how abroad. And that at a speed – speed, that is, the word; it will certainly be the negative word of the year 2001 – which is stunning, so that it does not wait for meaningful and thoughtful sales, but at the pace of domestic family silver at discount prices is spoiled. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No, that's SPÖ!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: Do you think "Euroteam"?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: "Consumer"!]] You only need to look at the totally unsuccessful sale of the state shares in Telekom or the disaster around the auction of UMTS licenses. Their foreign exchange is to cross the Austrians at a high speed and to kill jobs, so to speak, in passing by. [[Abg. Neudeck: Are you back on the railway now?]] No, no, no, This method seems to be applied now to the neck-over-head privatisation of the JCC's participation. This association of the Federal Government for Industrial Policy measures was founded in 1983 to take over, renovate and subsequently reschedule at risk of competition. [[Abg. Neudeck: Since you are no longer in the government, there are no more pleas!]] The aim of the JCC is to ensure employment and therefore, in conjunction, regional purchasing power wherever the existence of an enterprise is of particular importance to the regional economy. If you look at the field of responsibility of the JCC, you can see that this is a very useful establishment of the public sector. She is still acting extremely successfully. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: We're doing healthy economic policy, we don't need it!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Which third of Social Democracy do you belong to?]] According to a study carried out by the JCC in 1999, some 3 200 industrial jobs were maintained and some 600 million schilling were secured by regional purchasing power. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: That was still necessary, there you were still in the government!]] All right, there was a coalition between SPÖ and ÖVP. In my home region, the Obersteiermark, it was possible to see at firsthand how important the JCC is as a regional policy instrument. Many of the establishments in danger have been rehabilitated, thus saving some 800 jobs, 400 of them for women. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where was that?]] It seems that this success story does not fit into the concept of privatization ideologists in the coalition, also called Freundeskreis Prinzhorn, and so you, Mrs. Federal Minister, apparently once again listened to this friendly advisory group, decided to sell all the shares in the GBI quickly, knowing that two of the three shares held by the GBI, namely the ATB drive technology and the Ergee textile group, are not yet so far rehabilitated to be sold immediately. The current time is also described by experts as extremely unfavorable. In the planned sale of the third participation, namely participation in the company Assmann Ladenbau, there is a risk that a currently known supplier group will only show interest in know-how and therefore the location and thus also the local jobs are in acute danger. [[Abg. Zweytick: Why?]] Therefore, nothing speaks of an overturned sale of the JCC. On the one hand, sales under the pressure of time put a lot less revenue, and on the other hand hundreds of jobs would be at risk once again. We are also in favour of a timely sale of the renovated companies. However, the proceeds from it should not benefit the pocket of the Minister of Finance, but the promotion of technology and innovation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: What about the "consumer"?]] In this context, however, it also raises the question of why such a successful public institution, as the JCC is now, should be broken down, which will happen to it after the sale of all the shares. What happens to the existing well-functioning structures and the best qualified staff? Similarly, the question arises who will be able to catch up economically in distress in future and thus intervene in regional policy and employment. – All these are questions that I believe only one answer is to ensure that the JCC is preserved as a successful rehabilitation holding. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: What does GBI mean, colleague? What does GBI mean?]] However, policy also has the task of supporting rural areas and structurally weak regions in order to counter the dangers of unemployment and migration. In order to stop budget holes in the short term, companies should not be thrown away and jobs threatened. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where do you threaten jobs?]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Party! Mrs. Federal Minister! It's not too late to think about this. Take advantage of the opportunity and get a meaningful economic policy steering unit with the GBI! Don't drag well-floating Austrian companies, but ensure a future-oriented Austrian location, economic and industrial policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Some of the regional problems still lie in my heart, Mrs Federal Minister, on the part of the government groups in the last few days, and they want to make politics with their hearts for the people. If that is true, you will receive the Leoben–Vordernberg railway for passenger transport, force the station reconstruction and expansion already promised by your predecessor in Leoben, and also make the soon-to-be groundwork for the road crossing of Vorderenberg! The people of the Upper Styria also have a right to a functioning infrastructure and a corresponding quality of life. So make a policy with heart and not a policy with pain!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9829	Mr Mag. Mühlbachler is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9851	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the liberals – in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim – "Eurolim" speaks]] I would just like to make three observations on today's budget debate. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] First finding: I take all the speeches of opposition politicians from me that the quantity of expenditure is still falsely assessed as a quality criterion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Marxism!]] Second finding: It is called "lost year" by the opposition politicians last year. [[Abg. Eder: Lost!]] [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] I can teach you a better one. Only since the new government is at work have there been, for example, control groups in Upper Austria which are able to coordinate local transport between rail and post, and with which targets are also introduced in order to ensure that investments are not actually made for nothing. By the way, this is done with the involvement of municipalities. Third comment: Even the use of resources from 700 to 800 billion Schilling could not have resulted in a much better relationship between road and rail under socialist government policy and transport policy than 3 : 1. [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] This means that even with the highest use of resources, it has not been possible to make the rail really attractive.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9951	The next speaker is Mrs Plank. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9973	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Federal Minister, I still do not share your view that every head of state can pick up his desired infrastructure package from you. I'm not convinced that the Carinthian captain could do this. Fact is, now a confessing South Railway opponent has received from you the highest skills for the Federal Transport Road Plan. "Forstinger transports a fighter of the South Railway", writes the "Small Newspaper". That is to say, my concerns expressed at the time that the Koralmbahn could become a dead end could become more rapid than then feared reality. billions are entering an unsafe project, billions, Mrs. Minister, who is desperately missing elsewhere, for example at the station offensive. You told me you know some decoding stations, like all of us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Mrs Minister, do something about it! You are the Federal Minister and you bear the responsibility for it! If you delete and freeze the planned funds for the long-standing station offensive, then only damage is done and nothing else is done! [[Abg. Böhacker: These are all trends...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So far, you've been appointed Minister of Transport, saved and postponed. They're not doing a rail policy, and that's a missing rail policy. Finally, put forward an overall concept, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Böhacker: First one is structured!]] They are constantly discussing individual projects. This, however, threatens the development of the railway and thus the supply of Austrians. It also threatens jobs, and you know that. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Tell us something about the 30-year-old socialist transport policy!]] A bad song of similar situations, of political failure, can already sing thousands of Telekom employees. That was a topic today. I will read you the start of the notice of termination to a Telekom employee: Graz, 29. January 2001. – Dear Lord! The unit Regional Management Technique Graz and thus your department will be with 1. February – two days later! – newly structured. We regret to have to tell you that, due to this change in organisation, your previous job will be left out and you will be removed from your previous use. With a view to the restructuring of the company to be carried out, a new use cannot currently be assigned to you. Mrs. Minister! Can you imagine a person who has worked in Telekom Austria for 20 or 30 years and who is put on the street from one day to another? Skill You're imagining that? – I can’t really do that, but it must be a terrible situation. You have shared responsibility, namely political co-responsibility! [[Abg. Neudeck: You did that for 30 years! There it was you sausage!]] If I read now that the warnings of profit were supposed to be wrong, if I now look at the new figures published today, I will give Deutsche Telekom's employees a right to their fears, which say that Deutsche Telekom should be systematically destroyed and destroyed so that it can be worsened abroad. [[Abg. Neudeck: Since you are no longer in power, you are sensitive!]] I think these employees are actually right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: How many jobs have you "created" in the "consumer"?]] The errors started earlier, it began with the auction of UMTS licenses. A certain Mr. Prinzhorn expected 40 billion schilling of proceeds. It was much less because it came too late. [[Abg. Neudeck: Who should have done it before?]] A better preparation could have left a lot of resources in Deutsche Telekom – in spring, Mr. Schmid was responsible, you know that – and investment and material procurement could have taken place for Deutsche Telekom. [[Abg. Neudeck: Why didn't you do it in time?]] We would not have had the situation we have today that the employees are going to walk, that they have been plagued by fears of existence and despair, but Telekom Austria cannot meet the customer's wishes. She has no staff, she has no material, and the customers run away from it. ADSL connections are not created. You know. Mrs. Minister! The next buffer with the UMTS licenses is the call for tender itself. Half of the Austrians have to be supplied. Do you know what that means for the rural regions? Toni, now you can listen, you live in the country, as I do! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: (in the direction of Abg. Knerzl) Toni!]] They encourage the famine and bleeding of rural regions. Half of the Austrians must be provided. And where will that be? Will that be in the agglomerations, or will it be in the country? – Probably in the agglomerations. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is a horror scenario!]] If the Ministers are talking about regional policy in this context, I do not think so. [[Abg. Böhacker: Don't be so negative!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Think positively!]] I see what this government is doing, and I see what comes out of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: But there you will still look beautiful!]] UMTS licenses: "UMTS Start Threatens Delay... It's an intolerable situation." – "Kurier" of 28. March. Mrs. Minister! You stop running processes, you take negotiations that already existed, not seriously and not notice, you let valuable time pass and start at the hour zero. Austria didn't deserve it! Have you already negotiated with the alternative mobile network operators on exemption from fees? Where are the contracts? Are they here yet? - You missed that too. What about the asymmetric regulation in the Telekom area? – Telekom has long since ceased to be the market leader. [[Abg. Neudeck: What does that mean?]] It is now disadvantaged by your policy, and you know that. Think of the post-universal service regulations, how you harm the regions, how you make us, the Austrians living in the country, disadvantages! Mrs. Minister! They help thin, starve, and bleeding! They are a danger to the rural regions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10236	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10271	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! There have been major mistakes in the past – seamlessly, I would like to say – again today from my many previous speakers. In fact, what happened and led us to today's status quo has a long history of 30 years. But today simply go here and, replicating only a year ago, to show only the new minister for the guilt of the whole situation of the infrastructure in Austria, that is very thin and very thin, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We had been in the 19th century. ==References====External links== There has never been as much progress in all infrastructure policy as was done in Austria at that time. [[Abg. - How old were you?]] These were century projects! ==References== After the war and during the last 30 years, nothing has gone. That is exactly where this government is now called for, and it is willing to do so in the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Swimmling: Look back there, your own people!]] There are a lot of things on the agenda, that is a necessity and a commitment! It was also very important, Mr Dobnigg, that at the time the policy had intervened when companies started; the establishment of the JCC was very important at the time. Today it is a winning, successful company, and today politics can withdraw. It is very important that this company flourishes and that not all people were released at the time, as happened in other areas. Therefore, policy should no longer interfere with what the future is about, but the company itself should have more participation. Mr Edler – Trade Union College Edler's not here now! I want to know what he said: "Vienna, Vienna only you alone", just add: That alone can't be it!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10334	The next speaker is Mr Gartlehner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10356	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to deal less with transport and infrastructure issues than with research and technology, but not because, after 30 years of social-democratic policy, we have a bad conscience on these points. I believe that infrastructure policy has been a very positive one over the last few decades and that a very aggressive course is now taking place in this area, which is a matter for these companies. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A bad conscience is a gentle rest cushion!]] That's the problem. [[Abg. Böhacker: A bad conscience is a socialist rest kiss!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! You have a very strong ministry "inherited" – because you are not very long in this business. Although the tasks and functions of research, innovation and technology policy have been "crushed" in this education than ever before on several ministries, your predecessor – and also the Minister of Finance in the allocation of funds and responsibilities – has succeeded in making BMVIT the key ministry in this segment. You have a huge opportunity here that you, I believe, should also use in the next few years, because it is not only the infrastructure, but also the innovation area, which is very important for the future development of the Republic, in your hands. What I would like – I say so presumptuously and so finely – is that you are taking advantage of this opportunity, the opportunity to become more active in this segment than before. I believe that the role of the Research Council, which we have set up, cannot necessarily be taken more or less as a substitute for the Federal Government, so that all the decisions recommended by the Council for Research and Technology Policy become, as it were, official policies and then decisions are taken. I think that this outsource of political responsibility in the innovation and research fields is not correct. A concrete example of this is the Council's decision taken yesterday – or the last recommendation, if we formulate it precisely – which is to provide 1.3 billion schilling for the expansion of the centres of competence. The centres of competence are identified in a competition procedure, a very strict, very restrictive and so far quite successful procedure. It will then be evaluated by the Council once again, and if it has given its blessing, the Minister will also give a positive sign, a signal, and the Minister of Finance will finally make the financing. I think that this path is not necessarily the optimal one, and I would like it to be more activated here. I would just like to say so much to the JCC: Today – and in the past much more than in the past – there are still farms that are weakening, in particular farms that are located in rural or not entirely urban regions and are an important regional employment factor there. I think that the SCI should also have the function of rehabilitating and marketing such plants in the future. I think this is a very reasonable establishment. At any rate, the thesis of one of the previous speakers certainly does not agree that the JCC is no longer necessary because there are no bankruptcys or bankruptcys. – In this sense, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10407	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10428	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Bundesminister, many wishes and concerns have been expressed to you today. The promises of the former SPÖ ministers are opposed to strikers, one and climate. So the situation of fulfilling all the wishes is not easy for you. They will not come to an end without priority. As a Tyrolean MP, who is connected to the citizens in the Unterinntal and lives there, I have to ask for the Unterinntaltrasse again today. We have had huge increases in traffic in recent years. In the Inntal an extension of the road is no longer possible, so there are no alternatives to the extension of the railway. The citizens of the Inner Valley are, in any case, burdened enough. We don't have a chance on the street, and we don't have any alternatives. So we should take advantage of the money that has so far been invested in projecting and exploratory work and make a quick decision for the Unterinntalbahn. It should also be allowed to invest money that is earned on the street in the rails. As a reason for this, it will probably be justified that Tyrol is considered a sensitive area. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] The expansion of the railway infrastructure is enhancing the situation. It must not end at borders, but it must continue to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10472	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10494	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I too would like to deal with technology policy like my predecessor. But before that, Mr Zweytick, I cannot point out that, as in the past, there will continue to be businesses for the JCCs, which will not take over any other business, even if there are private companies that buy up such businesses that are in bankruptcy today. In the future, there will also be businesses located in a peripheral area, in a rural region where people have no possibility of alternative jobs and where only one institution such as the JCC is able to catch up with these companies, to continue giving people work there and to try to implement a rehabilitation concept. A private person will not be interested in it. It will therefore be necessary to maintain and not sell, Mr. Zweytick, the JCC not only for these reasons, but also for many other reasons – I am thinking of the many technology parks that have been created under the direction of the JCC. It will also be necessary not to sell the shares and shares. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Technology policy: In his budget speech, the Federal Minister for Finance spoke of his dream. In technology policy, we have experienced a Fata Morgana in the last two years. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Deep sleep!]] You will ask: Why a Fata Morgana? – One only needs to look at the history of technology policy and, above all, the financing of technology policy. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Because you're in the desert!]] No, my colleague, I'm not in the desert. I'm not going to get there either – maybe in contrast to a few others in here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the budget speech of the Minister of Finance on the 2001 budget... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Houselors have already died, Mr. Gradwelt!]] We all have to die once, Dr. Khol, we all have to die once! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Houselors!]] In his budget speech on the 2001 budget, he spoke of 10 billion schilling. [[Abg. Neudeck: Who?]] – The Federal Minister for Finance! He spoke of 10 billion schillings, which are intended to flow into technology policy and thus to increase the R&D ratio. Of these 10 billion schillings he said: 10 billion additional cumulative for the next three years are planned. – From this point of view, further negotiations were continued, and it was assumed that no, it was proposed to increase the research rate in Austria to 2.5 percent by 2005. Mrs. Federal Minister! At the following meetings of the Industrial Committee, in which these billions of technology were a topic, it was said that it was not 10 billion schilling for technology policy, but 7 billion for technology policy and 3 billion for transport and infrastructure measures. But at the time was still talking about "yearly". Only in the 2001 budget and in the 2002 preparations could we learn that these 7 billion remaining are not meant annually. Instead, they are resuscisable and available for the next three years, so a maximum of one third of these 7 billion schilling is available per year. This should be enough to achieve a 2.5 percent research rate! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I claim: Don't do that! But not only I, but much more profound experts of the situation – like the Gernot Hutschenreiter from Wifo, mentioned today – assume that these funds cannot be found and that no quota of 2.5 percent is reached by 2005. For this to happen – and he is going to do so from the year 2000 – the budget would have to rise by almost 6 billion schilling next year, by 6 billion in the following year, and then by 7.4 billion in the next year. When you calculate all of this, you come up with more than 21 billion, 22 billion schilling to give the public a corresponding impulse so that the F&E quota can actually account for 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Another point for me to doubt that this will be achievable is the following: They have assumed in your reply to budgetary questions – both in the Budget Committee debate and in the written replies – that the countries will increase their costs accordingly by increasing their support for research and development. I don't think they can. This federal government has taxed both the countries and the municipalities and has collected contributions to zero-erotics there. I hold it there rather with Johannes Steiner, who was in the "Standard" of 27. March said: "There is no simsalabim in technology policy." Mrs. Federal Minister! You too will not be able to do this. That is why I would like to ask you to rely on actual facts and figures, but not air locks and Fata Morganas!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10602	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10632	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with some topics of the future. As far as I am concerned in this budget, it is a means of innovative, forward-looking measures that increase road safety. Mrs. Federal Minister! Much has already been said about the past, especially the right side of this house. As a young, new minister, I hope you will look more into the future and implement innovations that bring out road planners and road builders. Road design must not be based solely on the ease and liquidity of transport, but above all must ensure safe transport. Road network planning must involve road safety. Safety audits on road designs should be introduced to ensure that the relevant safety concerns are assessed by independent experts in a special procedure already in the road design. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Transport safety can also be increased by the construction of local loops. They improve local living conditions by reducing noise and exhaust gases, and they reduce the risk of accidents. The extension of the motorway – we all know – and thus the transfer of traffic services to the relatively safe motorways, despite increasing traffic, has contributed significantly to the reduction of accidents. Therefore, the further expansion of the motorway network is urgently needed in terms of road safety. Construction sites are not avoidable – we know that – but a pile of construction sites should be avoided. It is also important to pay more attention to the training of skilled staff responsible for the establishment of construction sites. Perhaps you have read this too, Mrs. Federal Minister! According to "Kurier" of 5. "Delta-Bloc" is supposed to be a new concrete guide rail, which is practically impossible to break in the event of a hit. Tests would have shown that even a 38-ton truck would not be able to break through this system. I do not know how far your ministry has already examined this security measure. Even motorcyclists would have no problems with a fall, as unlike sharp-edged boards, practically no limbs can be separated. These guidelines should cost only insignificantly more than the known more dangerous control lines used so far. The direction could also be clearly improved. I would like to remind you of the electronic traffic impact with changing signs in Bavaria. There are already over 400 kilometres of motorway equipped with over-head road signs. For safety reasons, the ban on advertising on motorways should not be softened either. Advertising boards distract road users and may increase the safety risk. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to refer to an initiative in Upper Austria. You have certainly already heard of the fact that our state captain deputy, the responsible transport representative Dipl.-Ing. Erich Haider, who uses funds from the return flows from housing development to form an infrastructure fund from which 24 billion Schilling will be used for infrastructure measures for the next ten years. I would like to ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, that you also provide the appropriate support from the Ministry so that, in particular, coordination between the Ministry and the Federal Republic of Austria, but also where it is necessary, cooperation with the municipalities is improved so that these projects can be implemented more quickly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I still have to put on a last sentence as a Member of the Linz-Land district. The largest municipality in our district, the town of Traun, has decided a resolution against the qualitative and quantitative thinning of the services by the Austrian federal railways in the municipal council because there is no longer any stop in Traun in the city connections between Linz and Graz. I believe that a city with 25,000 inhabitants has deserved to keep a stop as before.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10703	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10724	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, a preliminary remark, because it has already come out today as a "social-democratic waste policy" – I think Mr. Ellwall has spoken about it and also colleague Kukacka with his "Transport Policy: 30 Years of Failure": You've always presented it as if you weren't there. Col. stupid was on diving station, Ellwall was probably not yet in the National Council. [[Abg. Ellmauer: 16 years we were not in government!]] I would like to remind you: I believe that part of the transport policy and debt can also be attributed to the ministers of the economy. Or am I deceiving? – There was a Mr Ditz, there was a Mr Schüssel, a Mr Farnleitner and also a Mrs. State Secretary Dr. Maria Fekter, who was also involved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is always interesting to show this presentation of fellow Members Edlinger to see how debt has increased in the coalition. [[The speaker holds a piece of paper in the height on which a diagram with an increasing curve path can be seen.]] I even have an investigation result in which one can see how this is distributed among the various departments. The debt has not only been made by the Minister of Finance, there are also the ÖVP ministries in a good field, and they have collected a lion's share. But now back to the subject and to Mrs. Forstinger. I think that we can also discuss the efficiency of a ministry, a minister and the staff at the budget – I am not going to go into the budget so much. I notice something – I have been in the National Council for a long time: The ÖVP government is relatively strong. I have to say that quite honestly. [[Abg. Swimmling: Do you really think so?]] With an exception – it is also solidified, but it is usually at diving station – and that is the Federal Chancellor. You don't see that much. The ÖVP has problems with the coalition partner. I remind you: The FPÖ could almost be referred to as the "Fluctuating Party of Austria" from the abbreviation. You've already lost a lot of ministers. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] I am somewhat sorry for colleagues Krüger, whom I have always liked very much. But he's gone. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I'm here!]] Then there was colleague Sickl. Now I also read news in the newspapers – that's not the evil opposition – in which Mrs. Forstinger, perhaps very evil, is called "sickl to square". Mr Schmid has also agreed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] – I am glad that my Burgenian friend is standing in front of me and gives me a little assistance. So there are cases of problem there. That doesn't say the evil opposition, but it's in the newspapers, that's already filling volumes. There are the problems of Böhmdorfer – we know that, problems with the links – Waneck, also Mrs Rossmann. [[Abg. Böhacker: It's not a problem!]] The problem is you don't see her. But now she was in the paper because she hired a bartender in the ministerial office. I'm eager to hear if he has a special contract. I'd be very interested. [[Abg. Böhacker: Incredible to attack a profession like this!]] At Mrs. Forstinger, I was originally very proud that she had moved in there as an Upper Austrian. Mrs Colleague, you have, because I have become a little personal in committee, immediately meant that I would be something like a works councilman of Lenzing AG. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I've never been a business councilman. I have had the same function in Lenzing AG as you in Laakirchen: I was there responsible for environmental protection. I'll be polite, but I can't help it. On the one hand, I am sorry to see my colleague Forstinger – that is, as I said, not really the opposition, Mrs Minister, okay; from the environmental protection point of view, she is a colleague, and a little bit from the education – as you are made to shine in the newspapers. [[Abg. Countries of the week: Ms. Forstinger!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: If the bures hear that!]] [[Further call-ins]] When I hear the speeches of the government representatives and then read in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" – no social democratic sheet –: "Balance of a future resort: A hundred days of inconsistency, or, please, beautiful, so on, in the "Kronen Zeitung": The last waltz with the State Secretary?, then I have to say that's bad! [[Abg. Wattaul:... inform, not just read paper!]] I would also like to say this: It is not only the ministers who are problematic on your side, but also the employees. I already mentioned the bartender. [[Abg. Böhacker: What do you have against a bartender?]] Now Minister has come under fire, there are very strange supply structures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] I also see a problem with Mr Miko. I have already said this in committee: We are still tearing down the Eternit roofs in Vöcklabruck today because he has put the change from asbestos to something else completely in the sand. There I am told – Mrs Fekter, even economics, you know that! – that the damage is about 1 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But go, that's all the storm done!]] Now, of course, I am thinking about the fact that a man who has almost driven Hatschek into ruin now congratulates the ÖBB as a Supervisory Board – but not only the ÖBB, but, I think, also the ASFINAG and the Austro-Control. This concerns me, and I appeal to the liberals to pay a little more attention to the selection of their ministers first and second to their employees! This makes the ÖVP much smarter. Only in this respect do I have a little more confidence in the "Walking through the Gobi Desert". Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10944	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10966	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Again today and on every occasion, the Federal Government laments that there is too little money in the state bag. On every occasion, she offers the zero deficit as a sacred cow, taxes the accident and invalid pensioners, reduces the Austrians with unfair taxes, financial additional benefits at all levels, as well as taxes and fees such as the ambulance fee again decided today, spends twenty million on an unnecessary advertising campaign, and unnecessarily pays a lot of money, especially in your department, Mrs. Federal Minister, the transport resort. You've been talking about billions of debt here today. I'll tell you where you give money, Mrs. Federal Minister: The 15 billion schillings have been alone since 1998 due to the constant delay in truck-road pricing. The freedom ministers are here seamlessly using the ÖVP freight lobbyist ex-minister Farnleitner as a responsible at the time. [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Either Schussel, Farnleitner, Schmid or now you, Mrs. Federal Minister: Their currency seems to be to delay, slow down, slow down, postpone – to protect the freighters, but also at the expense of the transit more than overloaded people and the environment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Because of your toughness alone in truck-road pricing, our country escapes between 4 and 5 billion schilling every year, which we would urgently need in the transport sector. [[Abg. Wattaul: You're really a phantast! You've never known about the billions!]] The Brennermaut is sinking in salamitactics, in discord, Mr Wattaul. No wonder, then, that the Brenner route in 2000 enjoyed unbroken popularity in transit trucks. [[Abg. Wattaul: You never knew about money!]] New record values have been recorded on the A 13. Mrs. Federal Minister! Because of a 150 percent overcrowded Brennermaut, after the spring meeting, the yielders also charge billions of money. A black and blue federal government has been pushing domestic and foreign visitors, which has more than met them for a long time. You want more, and they will still want more because you allow it and because you don't do anything about it! Or tell us what you're doing about it! I can't see anything so far. Mrs. Federal Minister! Even in the wretched dispute between you and Landeshauptmann Weingartner regarding the punishment of ecopoints sinners there is still no peace. I think you're not able to finally make clarity. They are not able to provide the country of Tyrol with the data necessary for the punishment of ecopoints sinners. Hundreds of offenders per year and millions of fines perish. You've caused this and you're to blame for it! And there are those who cry, Mr Wattaul? – The Federal Minister is her patron saint, the patron saint of the truck lobbys of Germany and abroad. [[Abg. Wattaul:... Lobby! That's where I have to protect the ÖBB!]] But unfortunately it is not the patron saint of the affected population, the environment and those who need much more protection. But they should not be interested in this protection. [[Abg. Wattaul: We must protect the ÖBB from you!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! What do you say about today's headline in the "Kronen Zeitung": Truck-horror is also threatening on Sunday!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Wattaul:... your union!]] Or: Truck-horror: "Kilometre-long reservoirs, sheet metallurgies with heavy-tongue trucks and huge exhaust gas clouds". The Minister of Transport Kurt Bodewig, quoted by you today, spoke of a disaster in the event that heavy road and Sunday transport would come together. When the ban is abolished, he's expecting mega-staus. [[Abg. Böhacker: Don't do anyone! Don't worry, the Federal Ministers will stop this!]] But this issue is on the agenda at the meeting of EU Transport Ministers in Luxembourg on Thursday. [[Abg. Böhacker: Read what the Federal Ministers say about this! Stand in the "Krone" in there!]] The BENELUX countries, Great Britain, Scandinavia, Spain and Portugal want to abolish this Sunday ban. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: All social democratic governments!]] But Her colleague, Mr Bodewig, assumes that his opposition is supported by France, Austria and Italy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Lauter S & D Democrats! All SP governments!]] I hope that will remain the same, Mrs. Federal Minister. Especially in relation to our allies Italy I have a question: How is it that you have brusqued your Italian colleague so much that he did not come to Austria to negotiate with you? – Mrs Federal Minister, tell us how you want to negotiate with your and our European allies in the future! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He did not listen when the Minister of State addressed this issue!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Another personal interest, also from my constituency: You've told us last time that the off-road run was saved and there would be no problems there. But now there is a letter from the Chamber of Workers – this you have received – with the subject: dramatic deterioration for commuters, outpost train, ghost stations and so on [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The same secretary who wrote this speech?]] The timetable for June 2001 shows that there is no new timetable for the off-road railway. [[Abg. Wattaul: But that's not the minister's fault!]] – What to become You're replying to the Tyrolean Chamber of Workers? Mrs Bundesminister, I would be interested: Is it true that this railway is actually saved, or will it also suffer the fate of other sideways? – The maintenance of this railway is very important for the removal. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I would ask you to take appropriate action to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11173	The next speaker is Mrs Kubitschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11195	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, real economic policy initiatives have become quite rare in this government. [[Abg. Wattaul: Economy is a foreign word for you, isn't it?]] The more important it is to take the announced technology offensive particularly seriously. Ladies and gentlemen! The government's declared objective is to increase the R&D quota from 1.8 percent of gross domestic product in 2005 to 2.5 percent, with an intermediate target of at least 2.2 percent in 2002. This is really an ambitious goal, although in the meantime at least this intermediate target for 2002 has already been revised to 2% down, as I believe, for good reason. In fact, the government has made a pretty wrong start on technology policy, so that the year 2000 has also become a lost year for research and development, even for technology policy. For example, investment for universities has been radically reduced. Public expenditure on research and development has fallen to the lowest level since 1993. Of course, this has consistently led to the first drop in the F&E quota instead of the rise. As we know, all the beginnings are difficult, and in the end, a technology offensive of 10 billion schillings has been announced. These 10 billion schillings have been reduced very quickly to 7 billion schillings, and this has ultimately led to the well-known 7 billion schillings for the next three years. I think that the term "offensive" in turn is significantly relativized. On what dimensions the technology offensive is really about, Mr Aiger, the Wifo's industrial expert, presented and predicted to the government's Technology Policy Council. It is – and this has already been said today – about 70 billion schilling, that is, a lot more than what you have written in your budget. It is really surprising for me that no one would find it worth responding to this statement by Mr Aeginger. Perhaps we can encourage you, with our contributions to the debate we have made today, to comment on it at least in the future. The only way I can see that these 2.5 percent are actually achieved would be to assume that you would be from a multiplier at the level of 1:10. This means that any schilling that flows into direct technology promotion in Austria would have to induce additional investments in the private sector of 9 S. In fact, only last week, the economic research institute presented a model calculation that can only be assumed from a multiplier of 1.6. So far, we have assumed a factor 3. But that means, Madam Minister, that this new calculation also means that you need a significant explanation of how you want to achieve your goal! Nevertheless, I believe that the real problem in technology policy is that we are increasingly getting the impression that no one in this government really feels responsible for technology policy at all. The issue of technology policy has been outsourced to a Technology Development Council, and it seems to be expected that the subject can be simply and simply cut off. While other countries such as Bavaria, for example, pump over 18 billion schilling of privatisation proceeds into a high-tech offensive in 2000, the Austrian government is suffocating UMTS licenses to stop budget holes, ladies and gentlemen, although we have only recently regained – and certainly not for the first time – the EC Commission has confirmed that we are in this area in great need. In particular, this also applies, as we all know, to information technology. There is really a failure every month to keep waiting for it, which can no longer be picked up. Ladies and gentlemen! The position of the government of your parties is as follows: First pay debts and then invest in the future! – For you, the future obviously begins only in 2003. I'd say, There you can only hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the future has not been overtaken by then!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11233	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11281	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the applause. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – In due time, the following Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's it then! Afterwards, there is no more reason for applause!]] As we all know, you are in the process of drawing up the federal road map. As I have heard, no tourist is involved in these preparatory work. I do not think it is necessary to stress to you that the transport infrastructure is an essential part of the tourist offer. I therefore urge you to invite tourists to the team. The fact is that the remaining station offensive means a great setback for all those guests who arrive at railway stations and have to find that they are not only little inviting, but also that the handling at most large railway stations is extremely backward. I would also ask you to consider what Mr Dietachmayr has just mentioned. We know that in the summer months unfortunately many of our guests are on the highways with their cars. The more construction sites we have in the high season, the more we make the traffic flow more difficult and the more we increase the frustration of the guests who come to us. I would ask you to take due account of the tourism and leisure industry even when the construction sites are being scheduled. Mrs. Federal Minister! I also ask you to do the following – from this point of view I say this out of honest conviction, because, as I hear, you work very well with Mrs Landesratin Burgstaller to save the Krimmler Bahn: I would ask you to continue this very constructive process! As far as all the other sideways are concerned, I invite you: Let us extend the circle of the discussing persons and try to get the sideways through the embedding into tourist concepts! [[Abg. Böhacker: Swimmlein, only together we are strong!]] I think that would be an additional stand to maintain this important infrastructure. All in all, I say out of deep conviction and as a tourist speaker of my club: Please, integrate the tourist into all your work! If these are not integrated, then there can be residues and deficiencies in infrastructure that would be of great importance to this sector of the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11336	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11357	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am glad that now both my colleague Rada and I have the opportunity to confront you a little bit with the problems of the wine district at a fairly full plenary session. Mr Mühlbachler, in his remarks, said at least that: Expenditure is not a quality criterion! He may be right with that. [[Abg. Kiss: But he's not from the wine district, he's from the mill district!]] I'm glad you're supporting me, too, not just Colleagues Doppelmüller. – He may be right that this is not a quality criterion. But no expenditure is certainly not a quality criterion! Because I see my dear colleague sitting there, I would like to ask: How does the economy develop? How does infrastructure develop? What's first, the hen or the egg? – I think it’s the infrastructure first, and then the economy comes. Very rarely there will be examples of the first coming of the economy and then the infrastructure. In fact, the priorities should be clear. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! If you take the pre-weekly debate a bit seriously – you claimed last week that the purchase of interception hunters is self-reliance, it cost virtually nothing, and in sum it is a huge business with the compensation transactions – then I wonder: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But now we have a traffic debate!]] If this is true of the interceptors, why not also with the infrastructure? Why do we save the infrastructure to death? Why do we starve regions? Mr Kukacka! There are practical examples of the success of the railway. You just need to be careful and go through the country with your eyes open. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] 15 years ago, it was Social Democratic Transport Ministers who built the expressway to Mistelbach. What happened? – Not a disaster, but a development of the region of Wolkersdorf, a development of the region of Mistelbach. [[Abg. Donabauer: Because the country has paid!]] Social Democratic Transport Ministers have revived a secondary train in a trial attempt, from the important towns of Gaweinstal to Obersdorf. What happened? – It worked, it arrived. Not even the current Minister has this side-line to discuss. Mr. Kukacka! It's a fact: If you want to do something, it also brings success! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: Then why didn't you do it again?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] I see fewer successes when I wonder how it will continue. The new government is a foreign word. It was signed in 1999 with a financing plan and extension plan for S 2 to Laa. There is a spa, a 400-million schilling project. What about it today? – This contract has been called into question. What contracts, signed or not signed for the government! The S 2 is more than questioned, the ÖVP mayors are more than concerned about whether it is actually coming. From the country of Lower Austria, we have a transport reference, which is known for its qualities, namely Landeshauptmann Pröll, promised an extension of the road links towards Brno: first a highway, then a motorway, now neither a highway nor a motorway! These concepts hang completely in the air. Ladies and gentlemen! But what does not hang in the air is the population, these are the inhabitants in the towns on Brno Street who have similar problems as we are constantly discussing them with regard to the Brenner. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the government, unfortunately, you don't care. For your idols zero deficit – save at any price – you sell entire regions!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11475	The next speaker is Mr Rada. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11518	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Mr. Klubobmann Khol! Since your speech last week in the general debate, we know that this government is doing politics with its heart, but also with the brain. I would like to take a look at transport policy just below this premise. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: An interesting approach!]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! It has already been said that sideways are closed and locked. It would be very important for these sideways to have a policy with a heart. There it hits the old people, there it meets the students who have to go to school. There it meets those who cannot drive to work and to work in a luxury car or in the service car. That would be politics with heart! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But there is also the possibility of operating policies with brains, and this policy with brains must also rely on public transport, because individual transport alone will no longer succeed. When you look at the situation in the surrounding region of Vienna, you can learn and hear that Vienna is expanding the S 80 enormously, but not Lower Austria. However, this would be politically a really efficient railway connection, connected to the new underground 3 line, in the middle of the centre of Vienna, in the middle of business life. But this policy, which also brings brain and profit, seems not to be in demand here, because this expansion, which is in progress, was no longer taken seriously and continued by our Federal Government. I would like to stress the fact that we are facing an enlargement of the European Union. This enlargement is also heading east. We also need appropriate transport links to Slovakia – at some point it will also be within the European Community – and this includes rail. On the overall transport situation, I would like to say that it is almost embarrassing for a country as rich as Austria to have a Ponton bridge in the north, which is closed for the most part because the river leads either flood or low water. In the middle there is a ferry construction, which has been in progress for some time, but has not really been completed, because many things that belong to such a business are simply missing. I would like to mention positively that a bridge in the area of Marchegg has recently come into the conversation. Mrs Bundesminister, this would be a forward-looking project, for which there are already a lot of preparatory work! I would like to ask you and remind you to include these possibilities with regard to the economic development of Austria. The latter also concerns the forthcoming enlargement. There is a very efficient, environmentally friendly and environmentally friendly option, namely the waterway. Mrs Minister, I have already asked you to: Please finally check the project of the Danube-Oder-Elbe-Channel!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11562	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's wish for a final word is not available to me. We come to the vote on the consultative group X of the Federal Proposal for 2002. This includes Chapter 65 of the Federal Estimate in the Annex 500 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is decided by a majority. The agenda is complete. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11605	I am still saying that questions 2263/J to 2266/J were received at today's meeting. I call the next meeting of the National Council for tomorrow, Tuesday, 3. At 9 a.m. on 9 April 2001, with the following agenda: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template 500 of the Supplements: Federal Finance Act for the year 2002 together with investments. The advisory groups will be consulted on justice, agriculture, the environment and water management, and finally on the inside. Question Time is not foreseen. This meeting is closed.
