ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e1874	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats and open the 67. National Council meeting for today, 3. April 9 a.m. The Official Protocol of the 64. Meeting of 30 March 1990 It has remained open in the Parliamentary Directorate without any opposition and is therefore considered approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Amon, Ing. Gerhard Bauer, Gaugg, Ortlieb, Dr. Glawischnig, Dr. Einm, Dr. Niederwieser, Dr. Pilz and Peter Schieder. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e1914	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Ms. Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner, will be by Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Molterer. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e1938	I announce that the requests received 1861/AB up to 1865/AB. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e1959	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform Mrs Mag. Lunacek has requested the Justice Committee to report to it on the application 10/A concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code, a period of time until 9. ==References== In this context, there is also the request made by five Members to hold a short debate on this deadline request. This short debate will take place at 3 p.m. The vote will take place immediately after the debate. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (500 and 500 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2002 and Investments (540 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e1987	We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2008	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates as follows: A day block time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been proposed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 176 minutes, Freedom and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green 104 minutes. As far as the members of the government are concerned, there is the same rule as in the past few days, i.e. everything that exceeds 20 minutes is charged to the respective group, to a State Secretary that exceeds 10 minutes. On this proposal, the House is to be found, and I therefore ask: Are there any objections to this proposal? – That is obviously not the case. That's what it's decided to do. Advisory Group V Chapter 30: Justice
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2050	We are now entering the negotiations on the V Advisory Group, on Justice. In order to make a correction, I would like to give the floor to the Special Rapporteur, Mrs Papházy.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2095	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I may make the following correction to the Special Report on the Advisory Group V, Chapter 30: Court of Justice, apply. In the application formula, the word group "including the corresponding part of the economic compensatory proposal" has to be excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2114	I would like to thank Mrs Special Rapporteur for her statement. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because of the rain?]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Kostelka) Then I'll say, Plemplem!]] We are now going into the debate. The first speaker is Dr. Jarolim. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2168	Ladies and gentlemen! – Your ingenuity is immeasurable, my colleague. [[Deputies Dr. Khol and Ing. Westenthaler: "Eurolim"!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Has this speech been made by Mr. Pearce?]] Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Discussions on the budget chapter Justice always provide the opportunity to draw a summary and venture a future outlook. [[Abg. Böhacker: Eurolim speaks again!]] This is, of course, also an opportunity for the government representatives to profile how, on the basis of this very imaginative call, one can see. I would like to congratulate you on this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call:Thank you]] - Here you go. The second congratulation concerns the fact that the print error could now be found and therefore a further decision of the Constitutional Court, as it has recently fallen in relation to your quality products, is no longer necessary. I think you can really be congratulated on this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! In short, perhaps: We have placed great hopes in you when you took up the ministry, especially that you can limit the Khol-Fekter-Justice course, which was then in high flower and often smiled by professionals. It looked as if it were possible at the beginning. At the time, this inconvenient sex-law debate was taking place, to which you have provided some of the approaches that have really served to put the discussion on factual legs. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Euroteam!]] Unfortunately, this has not been the case over time, and this has not led to a particularly positive development by the judicial system. Finally, it is almost on the agenda that in the various expert hearings in the judicial committee, the unscrupulous headshaking of the experts far outweighs. In my opinion, this is not exactly something you are proud of, because the judicial policy until now – I would say – was actually marked by other features until a year ago. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To your person, Minister of Justice. – Of course, it is not particularly favourable if one is faced with the fact that the judiciary itself calls upon petitions to ensure that the independence of justice – Mr. Khol! – remains untouched. If one has to read in the paper that the chairman of the judiciary, Helige, explains that "after the signature action of the judges and prosecutors against political influence on the independence of the case law the signal has now arrived", namely that you, Mr. Federal Minister, understood that one would not intervene further in this independence and that it should not be formally, as one has said in the media, "take hold on" then this is a development that actually affects. Mr Justice Minister, you should finally implement what you have repeatedly announced, namely, in the chief case, not the prosecutor's office, but the independent investigating judge. We would certainly welcome this sign of greatness. I think it would be helpful for all of you to put these investigations out of dispute once. - That's the one point. The second point is that, as I mentioned earlier, we have taken up a development in the judicial committee which is not very positive. Perhaps due to the motto "Speed kills", we have come to the point that we have not dealt with a number of questions – Mr Fekter has made this clear in a statement on this matter in the Committee on Justice. She said: The opposition has now been allowed to discuss, the experts have now been allowed to make statements, now we are voting, and we are actually voting on what the experts did not want in their majority. – This is how the Jugendgerichtsgesetz happens. Ladies and gentlemen! Listening to experts, but then deciding to do the opposite – of course with small improvements – is a development that is saddening! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Then you didn't watch!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I have just built in and implemented the findings of the experts! We are working much more efficiently, Mr Jarolim.]] I say to you, Mrs Fekter: You really don't need to be proud of that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! It also plays a role in dealing with the subject of budget, as you deal with the budget, which plans you have for the future. Therefore, quite a few sentences on the fact that you have recently presented the court organization law, in a way that has triggered unilateral rejection. I believe that this rejection goes far beyond what would actually have been justified. However, it is unfortunate that this government is obviously unable to communicate concerns in such a way that they are discussed at first and then presented to the public, but it is taking exactly the opposite course by stating that it wants to lock up district courts to an extent that is probably far-reaching. In this way, you have brought not only the judiciary, but also the lawyers, the notaries – they have then relativized it –, consumer representatives, communities and countries to an extent that now an objective discussion is no longer possible at all. This is an accusation that is relatively massive. I would ask you, Minister of State, that you return to a form of discussion on justice issues that will address the issues. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Euroteam!]] As part of the discussion on the Novelle Court Organisation Act, you have announced that you want to save 19 judges alone in the field of the Upper Regional Court of Vienna. On the one hand, we hear you want to improve access to justice, on the other hand we hear you want to lock all district courts, you want to limit the number of judges. [[Abg. Haigermoser: All district courts?]] 19 Judges less at the Oberlandesgericht – this cannot work seriously! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't seriously believe that all district courts are being locked up?]] In this context, it should be noted that a ZPO novelle is also in preparation, which includes a number of measures which would mean a decrease in the state of play prior to the 1960s. For example, they suggest that the warning procedure – that is to say the delivery of an action in which the first trial no longer takes place in front of the judge, but the order of payment receives legal force if it is not fought – will be extended to all monetary benefits. That is to say, it may well happen that a payment order of 1 million schilling, 10 million and 100 million is sent to you. We all know what is usually the case with documents that come with the mail, which are still designed in such a way as is typically the case with payment orders – they are kept in small writings and have hardly any conspicuous value – happens: They're not being read. The further consequence is that if this – Mr Krüger, I hope that you can confirm this – you will have no longer a chance to fight it. For reasons of consumer protection in the past, we have not rightly said that the citizen must have an opportunity to fight against it in the case of payment orders that go to him – this one puts it in part with a penalty in accordance with the road traffic regulations – when something happens, what can happen to each of us, namely that there is a payment order in the post, which he does not recognize as such, misses the deadline and then wants to do anything else. There has so far been the contradiction, but it should now also be deleted! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger:... payment orders!]] - Yeah, that's the next point. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... once again does not know!]] The order for payment in this area is therefore a measure which is not acceptable. This is a cosmopolitan measure, Mr Federal Minister, and I therefore urge you to prevent this. The next point is: The objection should be deleted. – If a failure judgment is made, there is now the possibility of a reorganisation by a contradiction. But this should now also be deleted. So you want to introduce an eventual maxim in the first negotiating day, under the word "procedural acceleration". This means that all that one wants to put forward in a procedure, namely both the material claim and the evidence, is to be presented at the outset, because it is no longer possible afterwards: Eventualmaxime! [[Abg. Neudeck: Good idea! Great!]] This is what we know from the past, and of course we also know that this is not possible and will lead to the fact that in the first trial everything can only be presented possible, 50, 60, 70, 80 witnesses, so that you are assured. This has been so in the past and has been abolished for just these reasons, because it leads to delays in the procedure. Federal Minister! Read in the materials the reasons why these measures were abolished at the time! I ask you: Why do they suddenly come back? In my opinion, this is completely incomprehensible, and I should like to ask you to ensure that these measures do not come in the form envisaged, but that the progress made in the civil process regulation for consumers, for those who do not deal with judicial matters on a daily basis, takes place in a way that allows consumers to maintain their legal positions. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I conclude by saying: Unfortunately, in the last one and a half years, we have seen a development in justice, which is puzzling. On the one hand, Mr Federal Minister, but also you, Mrs Fekter, on the other hand, may I ask you to help ensure that justice policy goes back in a direction that it can be seen in the public, but also in the international context. We have long shown that it is possible to engage in dialogue beyond the party borders. This is obviously no longer possible. I should like to call you to your senses and, in any case, to offer you our cooperation in this regard for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2398	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2420	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If one has listened in particular to the last words of my previous speaker, in which he has said that the development of justice in Austria is abominable, then one asks inadvertently whether he has not confused the countries he is looking at. In which country does Mr Jarolim live that he really believes he can say that the development of justice is shameful? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: In Yugoslavia!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This has to be rejected by every citizen who wants to be taken seriously, especially the judges, the prosecutors and the staff in the ministry. The development of justice is not shady. It presents itself as continuous, as has always been the case in the past decades. It finds progress that is proportionate and acceptable. In fact, a change has taken place over the last decades. In the past, justice was the epitome of the exercise of the sovereignty of every community. It was the epitome of the state, and justice has been exercised without exception by lawyers – if you look away from their assistants. In the meantime, things have developed that the state's claim to speak law has partly been replaced by the dispute resolution, the state's claim to punish, the settlement of conflicts. The mediator has often replaced the civil judge, the criminal judge of the social workers as a conflict regulator in the context of the division. This is a tendency that you can or can not rejoice at, at least it is irreversible. She's got a lot of space. Tens of thousands of procedures have already been transported in this direction, and it is only more about adjusting, re-adjusting, looking where one can do something better, for the future and for those affected. In the Diversion, it will be to see if it is really necessary that among those offences that can be attributed to this compensation may also be the so-called "Mafia-Paragraph" or the child pornography, because it simply fits into the threat of punishment. It is certain that all parties explain to you that no prosecutor and no judge is thinking of applying the disversion to such and similar offences, but it seemed useful to make it impossible from the outset for those who may happen in the future to be able to do so by laying down in more detail in the law what can and can not be included under Diversion. The protection of victims will also have to be more precisely considered and formulated more precisely. It will be about the fact that, in every effort to resolve conflicts, the victims do not simply fall under the table with their often justified claims. In mediation, it is currently such that every adult citizen – where I mean that "adult" is not even a prerequisite, because this is not required anywhere – can be printed in the room, everyone among the viewers, go to the next painter today and have a sign painted with the label "Mediator", print a paper with the letterhead "Mediator" at the next printer, and sit down in his cabinet and wait until the first citizens come. That will not be the case in the long run. I hear that the Ministry is already working on creating conditions for the profession and the exercise of the activity of the mediator, which ensure that a certain minimum training has been completed, perhaps an examination has been carried out before someone is allowed to call himself mediator. Today this term is completely unprotected. I have always said that every jobless patcher – I have nothing against the patches, there is almost no more, there are only asphalters – can say: It's enough with the patch, I don't always want to kneel, I'm Mediator now! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] This must, I believe, be done, ladies and gentlemen, in the interests of all those involved. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There are, of course, discussions on those steps to be taken in order to streamline the procedure before the court and the court structure. If I – and this was also heard from my previous speaker Jarolim – hear of protests against the plan to bring the judicial structures in Austria to a newer state of affairs, I may recall the following: We have a maximum of three instances in all procedures in Austria, usually two. But we have four levels throughout the Republic: the District Courts, the Courts of First Instance, the Supreme Courts and the Supreme Court. It is therefore necessary, at some point, to admit to the state represented by the Minister of Justice – the legislator, of course, is the one speaking the last word – that he finds in this respect any regulation which assigns three levels to the three possible courts, and not one more! Generations of justice ministers have tried to do this. So far, no one has succeeded, but at some point that will have to be. We can't afford a level too much. And it would be good if we were to support the Minister in his efforts in this regard with a measure of measure, but sustainable. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With regard to the streamlining and acceleration of civil processes, there will also have to be regulations – they will come, I am convinced, and we will lend you our arm to do so – regulations that are very likely to show that we adhere to the principle of decency in civil proceedings, that we do not return to the written process of medieval style and that we also put individual case-law before the process is resolved. I do not want to end without pointing out how hasty and prelude some of them to the Minister for Justice. You can certainly remember the theatre that was staged here in the house a few days ago – and not only here – with the claim that the Minister of Justice had put pressure on the public prosecutor in the so-called top cowardry. Unfortunately, a little too late – a day too late, there are just careful people – has come a statement from the prosecutor's office. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A day too late!]] I'm just reading a few things from it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Please!]] "There has been no influence from the ministerial side so far, said Nemec, who has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Association of Austrian Prosecutors for over 25 years. In this context, however, he criticized ‘the agitation of some political parties’. Its media articulated more or less clearly articulated ‘anticipation’ would be a ‘influence on decision-makers’.” – This is a proper rupture, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! "However, justice has no influence on its work externally. ... The prosecutor Michael Klackl, in charge of the Causa top coward, pointed out a little later to the APA: ‘There has been zero political influence here’.” [[Deputies Dr. Khol and Ing. Westenthaler: Zero!]] - Zero! That's what he says literally! "He can do his work according to his own ideas: "If there were no binding instructions, the previous procedure would in no way have gone any other way." – citation. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The Jarolim should listen to this!]] Put this on the mirror, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2537	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. The clock is set to 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2559	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ofner, what mirror am I supposed to put on? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bathroom mirror!]] Maybe on the back of the car? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: It's much better anyway if you don't have one!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Anyway – be it, as it may be! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you have a mirror at home?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, as every year in the course of the budget debate, to address my first words to the ladies and gentlemen of the judiciary, and to thank them most warmly for the support that our group receives from the ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, both in terms of content and in terms of parliamentary work. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Do you have a mirror...?]] It is tradition – and it has not yet been broken by the Federal Minister Böhmdorfer – that the ladies and gentlemen of the resort – I judge it from the point of view of the Greens – are available to all parliamentarians, completely independent of their group membership, when it is necessary and when it is appropriate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Auer]] – Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The budget debate provides an annual occasion, not only for the specific budget figures – the budget is, as we know, the government's policy of figures – but also for general comments and opinions on the state of the judicial debate in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You didn't even look into the budget!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: First budget in euro – did you notice that?]] But this has become a bit difficult in recent years. As in the last budget debate, which was held only a few months ago here – it was, I think, in December, at least it is not long ago – the whole, from my point of view, is still overshadowed by a circumstance, namely, that justice is overshadowed – overshadowed by discussions, overshadowed by criticism, overshadowed by, in order to formulate it very carefully, uncertainty! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You can also speak a little mediocre!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Overshadowed by the forces of darkness!]] How else, Mrs Fekter, President of the Justice Committee, and above all Mr Federal Minister, is it to be explained that it is precisely now, actually, at the end of 2000, for the first time – at least since I was dealing with judicial policy – that there is a list of signatures which the members of the Justice Committee receive, not in petition form of citizens – that has always existed – but of staff of the Board of Directors, speak in this case of judges and prosecutors? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You won't be able to get insecured here...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was against the... the Greens meant!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That was against all politicians! That's not true! Take this from the mirror...!]] That is why it seems quite grotesque when Mr Ofner is concerned, because once – in a way perhaps even justified – I do not want to appreciate that at present, at least there is the right to practice this criticism – criticism of oppositional judicial politicians was also practiced by a public prosecutor. But please, if 1 300 judges with name and address – that is, with face! It is a new quality that really cannot be described as positive – in any form, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, the practice of individual, top government representatives, and expressing their concern at it. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Not at all true! All politicians!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] I would like to stress that, in the past – and in this respect we have perhaps been spoiled in the positive sense in recent years – there was a general consensus that the so-called low-party hack should be kept out of the so-called low-party hack. And that has also been successful, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But that was the quality of the liberals in opposition that it this hack...!]] If only I can refer to those judicial decisions that have been taken unanimously in the National Council – and there have always been opposition and government parties, even before blue-black! – the Freedom Party itself, which at the time had a very strong opposition role in the National Council, as well as the Green and Liberal Group, has never closed the reasonable development of judicial policy. This development, ladies and gentlemen, has truly ended, because – and allows me, Mr Federal Minister, not to formulate it as a criticism, but to give you my impression of my perception – there is no longer any interest in including the opposition and its views in decision-making and in finding a consensus, although there was quite a consensus in terms of problem-consciousness or showing some difficulty. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You've been telling me this for five years as President of the Justice Committee!]] Federal Minister! In this context, I would like to address a matter - which is now budgetaryly relevant - which is the question of judicial mergers, the savings of judicial staff and the savings of judicial posts. Ladies and gentlemen! Within the opposition parties – I can see that, even if I am of course not authorized to speak here for the social-democratic opposition – there are, of course, also the rationale who say: These half-judgments, which are still in place in Austria, are – in order not to formulate them negatively – really worthy of discussion. The question of the closure of individual, isolated district courts is indeed to be considered, and the discussion is to be held, especially because the experience of recent years also shows that there are quite positive examples of how the relatively conflict-free without needing mediation has expired. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But now it is planned that over 192 district courts, which exist in Austria and whose number, as I have already said, is worthy of discussion, simply go over with the sense and reduce it to 64 dishes. In view of this, you cannot expect peace in the judicial administration and above all peace in the Austrian people seeking justice. This is indeed a dangerous message for the citizens! We already had the opportunity to talk about it within the Committee on Budgets. Here, Mr Federal Minister, I no longer know if I told you this, I was very upset by your answer to the questions raised by all the members of the committee about the Court of Justice – I would say so. They meant: What's that? A citizen, a citizen, on average, needs to have a trial once in life. Federal Minister! I can only tell you: It's about this once! This is the only time when it comes to access to justice and whether citizens, as legal seekers, are disabled in their access to justice or are partially excluded from entire population groups. That's what to consider. I am more than open to all questions – including economics and the sense of institution – but please not in the form of how the discussion has now been conducted! An example that I only read yesterday in "ORF ON" – you probably know it too –: It was reported that, of course, the Carinthian judges also protest against the savings plans of the resort – that was in connection with a visit to your home in Villach that this concern and this protest were articulated – and I read that only one third of the judges in Carinthia have a PC at their workplace! I think that this seems to be a bit curious, that only one third of judges have a PC – in an age when the Federal Chancellor speaks of e-government all the time and millions of amounts are invested in consulting companies. But that's not all! Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that the Carinthian judges have told the public that no Carinthian judge and no Carinthian judge has an e-mail connection?- Oh, my God! I'm asking: Where do we live? – The Carinthian judges obviously in the electronic Stone Age! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! On the one hand, this has something to do with the budget – no question at all – so to speak with the naked numbers, and on the other It has something to do with the right of the rightful people to quick, rapid settlement of proceedings. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I cannot imagine how one comes to his right – but not only to his right, if one wants something, but also, if one is a criminal, to his right to the legal judge – if there are no PCs, if there are no e-mail connections – not to mention the question of issuing judgments, the question of how many writers there are and how this is in Austria as a whole. I have only taken Carinthia as an example, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, This question – to stay with Carinthia, because it has been updated by you – also has other aspects, which certainly do not concern the majority of the population, including the Carinthian population; but the fact that the Minister of State plans to reduce the existing district courts to four means an absolute turning point in the question of access to the bilingual population, namely the Slovenian-speaking Carinthia, right in their mother tongue, in the constitutionally guaranteed right to the official language of Slovenian. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They are seriously planning that the three bilingual dishes, namely Železna Kapla – Eisenkappel, Borovlje – Ferlach and Pliberk – lead, are simply and simply locked up. These are the district courts in which there are living, practised bilinguality in which judges and staff have the appropriate qualifications. But that's the plan. Federal Minister! This may require some clarification, because it is not only a question of budgetary requirements in the judicial sector, but also because the constitutionally guaranteed rights which are expressed not only in Article 7 of the State Treaty, but also in recent times by a state objective which Austria itself has given itself. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The light is already illuminating, and there are still many topics, so to speak, on the next subject, which has moved the National Council and the Austrian public for years and is increasing in the dramatic of monsterity, so to speak, hourly, when we look at the reporting, namely the human rights-absorbing state of the validity of § 209 StGB, that is: different minimum age for homosexuals and heterosexuals in the exercise of sexuality. That is it, ladies and gentlemen. Federal Minister! I have not heard from you personally – not personally as Mr. Dr. Böhmdorfer, but as Head of Division – yet a clear, decided opinion as we knew it from Mr. Federal Minister Michalek, how you stand for this truly unique state in Europe, Mr. Federal Minister! You're not the head of the department. They are also within the Freedom Party, as we had to experience sadly last year, not anyone, but more than influential, Mr Federal Minister! Your word counts! That's my experience. Not only the spoken word but also the unpronounced word counts with you. We have experienced this in connection with U-richter Erdi and the like. That is why an opinion of yours would be more than appropriate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Therefore, you urgently need a mirror that you can hang out the broadcast, as you always quote things wrong!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) On a last point, which the blue-black judicial policy most frequently mentioned last year, namely the victims of crime. It is right to speak, ladies and gentlemen, of two things in connection with crime, namely the fate and suffering of the victims of crime, and of course – I do not want to put it in a ranking – of prevention, of the fight and also of the investigation of crimes, of ladies and gentlemen. But what has been done concretely and truly for crime victims in Austria, since the blue-black majority in Parliament, is more than poor, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That is really more than poor! Once again, ladies and gentlemen, they have remained true to the guiding principle of this federal government, according to which you are not to be measured in words, but in deeds, only: Unfortunately, the actions are missing. That is why, on behalf of the Green Group, I would like to present today a motion for a resolution on the decision-making of the budget, which supports this position, which is clearly formulated in our agreement and which the main focus must be on the victims of crime, and you ask that this resolution be taken along and then implemented in accordance with the majority of the National Council and on the basis of the composition of the Government. I would now like to read the motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] Did you know, ladies and gentlemen, that although fines are being taken, they are not meant for victims of crime, but disappear in the big "Nirwana" of the budget? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Ministry of Finance!]] – Those who repent because of a criminal act and perhaps believe in part in order to have made a contribution to the victims of crimes and crimes are mistaken, they are very mistaken. Therefore, this legal commitment – of 50 percent according to our proposal – is so essential that it is also such immediacy and this link between punishment – that is in this case: Punishment and compensation for victims. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The next few months will also be marked by unrest in judicial policy, unrest and unhappiness in the department, for, Mr. Federal Minister, I dare to predict – in which one really does not have to be very courageous – that only by the fact that the judicial unit is represented by your person, and by your non-department from the attitude to see itself first and foremost as a representative of the party, the lawyer of the Freedom Party within the Federal Government will not be able to speak of the return of that spirit to justice policy, which was marked by independence and also by equidistant towards all parties – or at least by the pursuit of it. I am truly not a clairvoyant, but your behaviour and statements in recent months do not give me the confidence that something will change here. But please – even Dr. Böhmdorfer is able to learn. Prove it!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2914	The motion for a resolution referred to above is properly signed and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Fekter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e2945	No, she doesn't have a mirror because she used to quote the wrong things again at Erdi. So she's not capable of learning! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If the public prosecutor makes it clear that there was no pressure here, that no instruction was given that in this case there was no influence on the part of the Minister in any way, and then Colleague Stoisits turns out and quotes the supposed scandal again, then I must say that she is not capable of learning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That was very personal!]] I have taken good care of it and immediately, when it came to the victims of crime, I thought that we might now make a multi-party request. Mrs Stoisits! But what you are demanding here is not justified. For example, to give an automatic advance to a victim is, in so far as it is problematic – even I would have liked it to – when the role of the victim as such is not always predetermined. Think, for example, of a car accident, in which there are several people involved and in which it is not immediately clear who was due to this car accident and who is the victim. Or you also meant that if you are a victim, you should get victim assistance in any illegal action. This would mean, however, that illegal action in the administrative field would immediately result in victims who would then receive compensation, which would be more likely to be enforced in the civil law field. It is also not the crime-offering law in the context, because the crime-offering law establishes that if someone suffers physical damage, he naturally receives compensation from the crime-offering law. However, we already have a much better social security law, and all physical damage is already covered by health insurance. Where health insurance for victims of crime does not take effect – that is in the therapeutic field – we already have a special scheme, i.e. three times the cost of therapy. It is therefore true that Your request is very well meant, but I do not believe that it is justified in the matter. We cannot therefore give your motion for a resolution, although, of course, I also believe that we will achieve a great deal in support of the victims or of the victim associations or also of the victim organisations. Well, ladies and gentlemen, to my real speech. I started in my manuscript with the following words: Turning to justice policy is reform policy. – The Justice Committee has never been as efficient as last year. We have implemented huge reforms: joint care, new rental rights with the free deadlines, the Jugendgerichtsgesetz, the Addictions Act, the Warranty Law, and I could list several more. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! This reform course has clearly overwhelmed you, because constructive proposals in the form of amendments have not been received in the Committee on Justice. The opposition was merely against everything, according to the motto: anyway and at all – just fundamental opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs Stoisits! The Marche that everything has been decided unanimously in the field of justice and that is now suddenly not so, tell me for six years now. At the beginning, you have reason to reason that I would no longer be able to do so as committee chairman. The fact is that for six years the same leader – but five years ago we had another coalition! It is therefore alleged that it was not possible, even under Minister Michalek, to make unanimous decisions in all matters. Mr Jarolim! I already see a new quality in justice policy: There have never been so many expert hearings and never before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Ignorance to the expert opinions!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Stoisits! Even the experts welcomed how efficiently we work, namely that we incorporate the experts' opinions into our legislative papers that we implement them immediately. [[Abg. Oils: Where?]] That was the case with the Jugendgerichtsgesetz, which was also the case with the Addictions Act, so that we have incorporated expert opinions as far as they were one-bright. [[Abg. Oillinger: Ambulance fees! Accident pensions!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You did exactly the opposite! You're looking for your experts!]] Of course, if experts did not have a unanimous opinion, but the opinion was presented both as well, we have just decided on one of the expert opinions. That this wasn't always yours is in the nature of the thing. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The experts have laughs!]] It is a single proposal, Mr Jarolim, from the SPÖ, namely the demand for a non-profit-making federal lawyer. Of course, we are not going to get closer to this proposal, because the majority of experts have also recognized it as not meaningful, because the responsibility of the ministers is, of course, a better control. I would also like to say on this occasion that I cannot afford to a European lawyer, a European prosecutor. National criminal legislation is far too different, the criminal law traditions are too different than that a single European prosecutor would find acceptance among the population. Harmonization of criminal law at European level: yes, but not over-boarding of national competence. We already have great difficulties when, for example, the EU demands serious minimum penalties, such as those for towing, because they are higher than the minimum penalties for us, because we know more differentiated offences. We do not know a criminal law for legal persons either, so we also find it difficult to implement the EU-wide law. On the other hand, the EU does not know a division. However, given the recent events in Serbia, it becomes clear that it is very important that criminal law rules have a certain degree of convergence. In particular, for a common Europe, it will be important for the reform countries to approach the continental European legal system rather than the American one. It will therefore be essential for Europe and also for us as our neighbours to be involved in the development of an appropriate judicial administration according to European standards. Our joy for reform, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, of course, will not be restricted, but will continue. In particular, in the criminal procedure system, in the pre-trial reform, there will be new, clear rules for the investigation of the executive, the prosecutor's office and also the investigative judge, so that such peculiarities as "surveying judges contact the media" may be suppressed and this media pressure will not hinder investigations to the extent in the future. [[Abg. Oillinger: No pre-conception, Mrs. Dr. Fekter! No pre-condemnification!]] There should be clear delimitations. Of course, the public prosecutor's office is established as a very powerful authority, in which I personally wish for another instrument of control next to the instructions, because such a powerful institution could very well also be misused. Three cases of abuse are possible: On the one hand, research orders are awarded according to the motto: We are identifying in a very specific direction. The prosecutor's office gives the executive the wrong investigation orders – that would be possible – although the executive already knows that the actual perpetrators would be found in a completely different direction. Another case could occur: No investigation orders are issued at all, according to the motto: The soup is too thin. Or it could happen in the third case: Massive investigation orders are deliberately issued to put pressure on anyone. For all three cases of abuse, we also need additional control in addition to the law of order: For example, if the public prosecutor gives the apparently wrong orders, the executive must be able to defend himself against these false orders. For example, from my point of view, it would be possible to reach an incentive on the general procuratorship. We must therefore strengthen the control mechanisms in this area if we are already creating such a powerful authority as the prosecutor's office will be in the future. And this budget allows us to continue the reform course!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3103	The Federal Minister has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3125	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am now referring to the individual arguments in the order in which the arguments were put forward and, above all, I would like to comment on Mr Jarolim's comments. Mr President, I should like to thank They have addressed the petition of the judge. I would like to say that this petition exists, but has long been overtaken and, in an improved form, another petition has been issued by myself together with the President of the judicial association. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What happened? Of what?]] If you consider the events in December – it was the 15. December 2000 – recalling the following: There was a public discussion between politicians, judges and prosecutors. At that time I immediately asked the representatives of the judicial association and the president of the prosecutors to come to the ministry. At that time, they had no time for about ten days, and the conversation took place on 15 May. ==References== At the time, I had prepared a statement which had to be taken from the President of the judicial association and which the President of the Association of Austrian Prosecutors has very quickly agreed to. This statement is clearer, more precise and supports the independence of the judges much more than the resolution of the judges. However, it also assumes that the judges are not free from criticism. Judges must also be aware of their social responsibility. Judges also need to be criticized, albeit objectively. The judges expressly agreed to this. The prosecutors have also expressly agreed to this, and I would like to make it clear that there would be no need for any initiative by the judges to make this statement. That's proven to be historical fact, and I don't let anyone take it and twist it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: This is an immense twist!]] – This is not a distortion, Mr Deputies. That is absolutely right, and you can understand it and check it out. I'd like to be willing to give you personal proof of this. This statement was signed at a time when the judge's statement had not yet been made public. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Because you wanted to come forward!]] – No, this is not right, too, Mr Klubobmann, Mr. Managing Clubman, apologise, because I had no idea of this action by the judges. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Of course!]] By the way, legal practitioners and judges are also expected to have signed there. I had no idea. [[Abg. Oils: They can't?]] The President of the judicial association, with which we have spent hours trying to sign the statement I have made, said immediately before the signature that she believes there is something else on the road. That was the statement of the judges. – So it is right, Mr Klubobmann, and nothing else can be said about it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Aha!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Imagine!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: That's how it looks! Eurolim!]] If you, Mr Jarolim, are constantly drawing Judge Dr. Erdi into the spotlight, instrumentalizing and pretending as if he had been disabled in his activity, then I must say that too is completely wrong. As you now know, at least I did not give the slightest influence. You know exactly what would have been going on if I had only taken a little influence on this judge. I don't know Judge Dr. Erdi, I've never talked to him before, nor have I indirectly "speak" to him and let him do nothing at all. You know that very well. However, this judge is wrongly instrumentalized. If he is quoted as perhaps being transferred to Klagenfurt or Vorarlberg, that can only be wrong. No judge can take this seriously because it is not possible by law. If, because he is an explosive judge, he can reach another court, it is based on a regulation of the year, I believe, 1992, which was decided by your votes and with the agreement of the judicial association. I can't be blamed here at all. It is unfair to break the judges into the public of such an unfair and instrumentality. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I'll add one more: Of course – it is so natural that I almost enjoy saying that – a shift of a judge in this case is not at all in question. There are precise legal regulations here. But we are quite prepared to talk about everything, not just in this polemic form. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] What is going on in the Drugs Act – Mr Jarolim is unfortunately not here now, although I expressly... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Oh, yes, there he is!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: May I introduce myself: Jarolim!]] - Excuse me, my colleague, I will take this back. [[Abg. May. Trattner: The interest of the SPÖ in justice is not very great! You have to say that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Where is the Westenthaler?]] Mr President, I should like to thank As far as the Addiction Act is concerned, you have to say it clearly: The accusation that you raise, the principle of "help before punishment" no longer applies, is wrong. But if you want, colleague – there are a lot of young people sitting here on the gallery – that this principle applies also to those dealers who are not addicted themselves, but who are equipped with the knowledge and behaviour of industrial forests, then say it clearly! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You know exactly that's wrong! That's polemic and wrong!]] You know very well that in Austria, everyone who consumes addiction only has several opportunities to be treated at government costs. Several! As long as you don't, keep the truth from the youth of our country! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is polemic and false! You know that! You can tell the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Euroteam" Jarolim!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: "Eurolim", give a rest!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You do the opposite of what you say!]] I'm not doing the opposite of that, but I'm doing exactly what was started under Ofner. We put this drug policy in line with the pre-text "Help for punishment" continues where it makes sense. And we won't let that happen! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They have criticized the ZPO novelle as a step back in the judicial policy. You're wrong with that too. The warning procedure you criticize has existed in Austria for many, many years. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Successful!]] There are no objections to this reminder procedure. Call judges, you call lawyers who have challenged this warning procedure, which has existed for decades, for many years! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He's a lawyer! That's why he doesn't know himself!]] In this setting up of the order for payment, which you have criticized today, call it an abuse! – There is no exaggeration and overrun of defendants here. Nevertheless, we are ready to improve the delivery forms visually when extending this sensible reminder procedure, so that the warning to the defendants becomes even clearer than it has been before. We have already said this publicly, and we stand for this modification in the ZPO novelle. If you criticize the eventual maxims, you will criticize an eventual maxim that has passed up to the early eighties. This evental maxim is no longer coming, it is not planned! But we must give judges the opportunity to collect the substance at a very early stage of the process. We must give them the opportunity to ask the representatives of the parties and the parties themselves to put their arguments on the table as early as possible so that the process can be made as meaningful, efficient and economical as possible. I stand for this form of moderated eventual ceilings, however, if someone retains procedural means from his or her own fault or even deliberately, in order to overwhelm the other and hide the truth, such requests for evidence can be rejected. That is the aim of this reform. They say with the help of acceleration, there is no real access to truth. – That’s not true! We have known the institutions of provisional proceedings in Austria for decades, probably since 1870, that is, since the birth of the ZPO. What does that mean? – These provisional procedures will be carried out in writing as far as possible. They are applied mainly in the area of UWG, media law and law of localisation. In a very short time period – mostly 14 days – a provisional decision will be made there. Mr President, I should like to thank What do you think is the percentage in which this provisional decision is consistent with the final decision? – About 95 percent! That means you can also decide very quickly and correctly, and I do not let myself take it that I prefer the quick right decision to the slow right decision. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Dear colleague Dr. Ofner! I know about the concerns of the attorney's office that this might be too short, especially as a defendant's representative. I don't understand this concern. I also have 27 years of practice as a lawyer. But let us also think of the complainants, let us think of those who have a claim that is rightful and wrongfully disputed. My sympathy belongs to the one whose claim is wrongfully challenged. And we must help this very quickly to a judgment, because the conscious dispute of a legitimate claim for me has, in some way, an social character. I would therefore like to help the applicant if he is clearly in the right. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Stoisits! If you have referred to the judges of Austria as the "services" of the resort, I think you have abandoned the choice of words. For me, they are not servants of the resort, for me they are the core of our rule of law, and their independence must always be safeguarded and defended. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] If you claim that Carinthian judges would have said that they would only be equipped with PCs 30 percent, I can tell you the following: Of course, on the basis of the criticism of the last days, I immediately asked the representatives of the judges to us in the ministry. They came too. This debate took place yesterday from 5 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. and we were able to have these Carinthian judges judge that they had 100 percent PCs every six weeks – they just didn't connect them. They have made this subject a press release that unfortunately came about mistakenly. And you have therefore taken over this unjust criticism as a result of bad research into injustice. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That must not be true! That's absurd!]] This is not absurd, but we have in the ministry, Mr. Klubobmann – Mr. Managing Clubman, apologise! – from Carinthia, notice that the judges are 100 percent equipped with PCs. They just didn't connect them to the whole thing. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The judges should join them alone – or how? That's your power of office! They're just cleaning up!]] I assume that this will finally happen in the next few days. In addition, Mrs Stoisits: Each court in Austria has an e-mail address, but we also have electronic traffic, which serves our purposes much better. We have 12 million pieces of business, which are handled automatically every year via the postal road. That means we save ourselves a mountain of paper that is as high as the Ortler. Only you must finally note that we are much more modern than you know! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I could give you some more impressive figures. It is – and I thank you for thanking the officials of the House, ladies and gentlemen – a merit of the officials of this House that we are world leaders in the field of information technology. That's not a keyword, that's the truth! And no minister can do this alone, because the decades programmes are. This has brought about the modernisation of the officials of the Ministry of Justice, which we can all be very proud of. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, I do not let this achievement be destroyed by you by incorrect, premature and completely uncontrolled criticism! I reject what you have said, Mrs Stoisits. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Your references to the fact that we are supposed to be doing too little for the victims of crime are also wrong. You know that since the beginning of this legislative period, a separate fund has been set up, in particular to provide assistance to women and children who have become victims of crime. You know that we have equipped this fund with 3 million schillings and have now increased this to 6 million schillings in 2001. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We didn't have to reject any requests for support. We make these victims of crime available to therapists and lawyers, and no one can claim that even a crime victim in Austria is unprotected of a trial that he has not personally grown. Our legal protection institutions are complete and complete in this respect and have really not deserved this unbelievable criticism! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I still have to deal with the situation of the district courts. If you look in the history books, you will see the following: This organization, which we have today, dates back to 1848, it was only insignificantly adjusted. When German Chancellor Seipel traveled to Geneva in 1922 to obtain a Volksbund bond, he was told by the League of Nations that he had to carry out savings measures in Austria. And one of these savings measures, which took place on 6 June. It was announced in October 1922: Conclusion of the unfavourable district courts. – Since then 78 years have passed, and we have only a few gathered together – none has been closed, it has at most changed its location. We have 192 district courts and 88 district captains. They know that the county headquarters are much more needed and more often than a district court. You know that we have 29 district courts where even a judge has not been charged. And you know that two thirds of our 192 district courts – statistically speaking – have less than 2.9 judges. You know – or you should know – that in Austria – with the exception of Vienna, which does not have to and cannot be used here – the average population per district court is 36 000. In the international comparison, also in the East, there are approximately 150 000 to 160 000; the courts in Bavaria have a minimum size with which seven judges are burdened. We have judges in many courts who have to travel to and from several times a day. No Austrian in the rural area who needs such a district court can be sure to find a judge when he goes to court unregistered. I can also inform you of the ways you mentioned: Think about the ways of schoolchildren in these areas! They often lay 20 to 30 kilometers a day, and that twice – tour-retour –. And do you know how often an Austrian goes on average to a district court or even to court? - One time in his life! In addition, I do not see that we cannot think about how we can make sense of our administrative reform at such a high level of traffic density in Austria – around 700 cars per 1,000 inhabitants. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And, of course, it makes sense to think of the merger of district courts, because even for the judges, the requirements rise daily. We are getting regulations from the EU that we have to implement in Austria, but the content of these regulations does not appear in the Austrian federal laws. We must therefore also strive for the specialised judge. We must remember that when the population comes to justice, it also receives a reliable, balanced and scientifically correct response. And we can do nothing but give the national leaders – who must agree when District Courts are assembled – the proposal to improve the legal care of the population. We have a great advantage in the field of information technology, but it is not as large as many believe in time, because these are easy to catch up with. We must not stop thinking modern and progressive! I am sure that our talks with the parties – with all the parties! – the result will be that we will significantly improve our judicial organisation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3565	The next Mrs. Dr. Mertel is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3586	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! In view of the fact that we are now determined and governed by Carinthia, I would ask you, if you speak of Paperbergen, to speak of the Großglockner in future and not to draw on the Ortler for comparison – that would be a Carinthian concern to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And if you think that in the "Haider country" the judges are 100 percent connected to PCs,... – Mr. Generalinquisitor! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Ortler, Mrs. Mertel, is 200 meters higher! It is in South Tyrol and is 3 956 meters high! The Glockner is only 3,700 meters high!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: You have to know that! It's part of general education!]] Let me talk to you, polish your "Constitutional Arch"! So if you think that the judges in Carinthia are 100 percent equipped with PCs that are not yet connected, of course I have the suspicion that these devices are all still in business. – And you've made that happen to the judges. But I was particularly excited – actually I didn't even want to ignore her speech – about Mrs. Fekter: It meant of course that the reform of the Coalition Government would continue. – This, ladies and gentlemen, is almost a threat, because reform is a synonym for driving and turning the wheel of time back. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And if you are talking about expert hearings and expert opinions that will continue to be collected, I can draw your attention to the fact that last year you have expert hearings – Pseudo expert hearings! – have performed but have never taken the opinions of the experts into account. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The proper functioning of justice is important for the state and for the trust of citizens in the state. Trust in justice is important in that we need appropriate decisions, and that in reasonable time. If this confidence of citizens is not sufficient or not at all available, it will have a negative impact on the community as a whole. I would like to point out that the Austrian judicial system is working – and it is also working quite well in international comparison – and that the confidence of citizens in justice is currently given to the necessary degree, but, Minister, I must add: there is still a given! In fact, we must not overlook the fact that the cuts you have made will lead to a tense personnel situation in justice. You yourself have said that the requirements for judges are growing every day. – The help cry of the judges of the National Criminal Court in Vienna a few days ago was only an indication of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nor does it change anything that the Minister of Justice and Mr Ofner are trying to simply address these problems. It is simply the fact that fewer judges need to work more and more, more and more work needs to be done in increasingly shorter time, and more and less non-judicial staff support. At the same time, courts are locked up, judges are saved, and thus the legal access to justice for the population is difficult. These are processes, Mr Minister, which are quite right to shake the trust of the people in the rule of law! The judges' representatives are wondering how this is supposed to work. But not only should this ask itself, but it should actually be every average citizen, every average citizen, every reasonable person has to ask that question. I know – and this is what I would like to express here – that the Austrian judges and also the non-judicial staff are doing excellent work, and they are due to do so. I would like to thank them very much on behalf of the SPÖ Group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not want to address the tense human situation of the judicial guards here. [[Abg. Böhacker: Why not?]] - Because that's what my colleague Pendl will do. [[Abg. Böhacker: Oh, that's what I thought! – Thank you, Mrs. Colleague!]] - You're welcome! I will answer all the questions you ask me, but now let me speak on. The staff situation was also achieved by the undemocratic spirit in dealing with justice – in dealing with justice! – strengthens, and this has also been expressed in the petition of the judges. [[Abg. Neudeck: Where did you get this? You have no perception in history!]] Mr Minister, if you say that you have had a resolution for days and hours, I must say: a resolution where you probably forced the signature by pressure. Just as there is a crisis in social legislation, the disregard for independent judges in the judicial system has. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: You want to talk to them, but you can't!]] This is not just a system at the FPÖ, which has tradition: The dignification of justice has shown itself scarcely at the top cowardry. There officials at all levels, at all hierarchical levels, were accused by the FPÖ of political influence, unreasonableness and falsification of evidence. It was quite different, however: They gave instructions to the prosecutor's office, as was stated in the resolution – just as the head of the section of Mrs. Forstinger suddenly made a very "voluntary" statement against it. There were attacks on the Director-General for Public Security, public appeals by a police general. And there was talk of "red brothers"! – All this reminds of something, because a few days ago, the true leader of the FPÖ, who suddenly found his voice – the speech had struck him for a while, apparently also to Mr. Gaugg, in Carinthia there is a disease – suddenly spoke of the "red constitutional judges", of the party-political intentions of these judges. [[Abg. Böhacker: Have you found your desk yet?]] It's quite interesting that according to "Kurier" of the 29th century. March Haider said: "the political partisan action of the red constitutional judges". Then, on Sunday, Haider will also come to the realization that you are faced with subversive forces by the FPÖ. – It is not the subversive forces, it is your sluggish legislative policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They're attacking non-bountiful officials, public officials, judges. This fits seamlessly with what Mrs Vice-Chancellor and you call for from the FPÖ, namely the abolition and abolition of Pragmatization. They want officials and judges as commanders. You want to put pressure on puppets that you can put under pressure so that the black and blue policy can do what it wants and right-wing rupture is not persecuted by direction. The party member Haider has already begun the general attack on this professional group in "the matter" on Sunday evening – I have already said that: The craftsmanship is given to traitoric officials and experts who start an attack on the government's magnificent work and sabotage this work. [[Call the SPÖ:Of course!]] – You could hear that five times! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is the undemocratic spirit. From these sentences is the undemocratic spirit that was heard a year ago when Haider called for the criminal law to be politically dissident. [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you have something to say on the subject?]] Political opponents belong abolished, disabled. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You are really embarrassing!]] – Political opponents and dissidents cannot be eliminated, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, they are not criminalised, nor do they want to be locked away. Whoever thinks this is not a democrat, but that's nothing new. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's where you smile, because you need to know better! - Painful!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That means "rerule", reign with heart and feeling! But one thing, of course, concerns me – I say that now that you are constantly calling for the reference to the item on the agenda –: In the planned civil process order, you have already seen a departure from the original plans in terms of rooming procedures. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You don't understand anything!]] As far as the civil process reform is concerned, you have left some doubts open, such as the abolition of the first day statutes, the restriction of judicial instructions, the planned command of the insidiousness of the warning procedures, the abolition of lay courtship – that was, in fact, an essential pillar of our justice and is still it today. Improve them, train the lay judges and get the lay court in renewed form! One word to the community. – It is a fact that the number of living communities is increasing, that fewer and fewer marriages are being concluded. For my person, I would like to say that I consider the Institute of Marriage to be quite positive, but I am surprised that the government coalition does not take any account of these sociological facts and does not in any way reflect on improved legal frameworks for living communities. That would be nothing special in a pluralist society, as we have it, but a matter of course. Minister! The policy, of course also the judicial policy, should be there for the interests of the people and guide themselves to the real life and not act beyond people's interests for questionable ideological reasons. Unfortunately, this is happening in many areas from the Federal Government, the FPÖVP government. And that is one of the reasons why SPÖ cannot agree with the budget chapter of justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3841	Mr Krüger spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e3862	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor, Mrs Mertel, has just, as you have heard, proclaimed the Apocalypse in Carinthia. However, I cannot understand why, according to the investigations carried out by a research institute, 64 percent of Carinthians wish the current head of state again as head of state. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Mertel! Perhaps you have also contributed to this survey result and tell us something different than you actually feel. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make a few comments on the statements made by my previous speakers. First of all, I should like to turn to Mr Mertel's appreciated comments. The Minister for Justice has quoted a petition with the President of the Association of Austrian Judges, Mrs Helige. Mrs Mertel said that this petition was under pressure. She thus succeeded in massively insulting two persons, namely, the Minister of Justice, to whom she conced almost criminal action, namely in the direction of necessity or threat, and, on the other hand, Mr Helige, who assumes that she had not grown in the pressure exerted. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Mrs Mertel didn't notice that!]] – Well, you have a nice understanding, you have obviously never had to deal with Mrs. Helige! Believe me, Mrs Mertel, Mrs Helige can't be seen by anyone – even a minister of justice! - put under pressure. Mrs Mertel! Excuse me for this derailment! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The name of the colleague Helige is at all very productive in political work and really very practical. This name is well-quotable for all. He's citationable to you because you're right to say... – Oh, for the "Miss Vienna"! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: A case for the Miss Vienna!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Miss Vienna!]] Mrs Mertel! You always repeat by constantly calling down: Miss Vienna. I think you have a Miss Complex, Mrs Mertel! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I think you once applied unsuccessfully for the title "Miss Radenthein" – or perhaps for the title of "Rose of the Wörthersee", and since then you have a "Miss complex". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] It's really great, the prevented "Miss Radenthein" is talking! Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to something else, namely the Constitutional Court: It was right that Kärntner Landeshuptmann had massive criticism. You can stand to the Constitutional Court as you wish: I appreciate the work being done there, even if it is currently against the government parties. It was sent in advance once. But it is quite unbearable that a decision which is only set out in the concept, which is not yet decided in plenary, which has not yet been signed, is brought to the public by a targeted indiscretion of the Constitutional Court, "at random" three days before the election of Vienna! If the Constitutional Court allows such a procedure to take place, it must also be allowed to suspend itself from the accusation of political instrumentalisation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Jarolim: Mr Jarolim objected that the Minister of Justice had not given any instructions to the prosecutor to transfer the so-called "spitsels" at the stage of the preliminary investigation to the judge. I should like to say the following, Mr Jarolim: The criminal code applies to every Austrian, whether he is a liberal official or not. The rules of criminal proceedings are governed by the principle of indictment and not by the principle that the judge decides on an indictment. It cannot be demanded by a minister of justice that, although the rules of criminal proceedings should be applied in general to all, they must be applied in a similar manner to freedom of movement but in a different form. A special incongruence in your argument can be derived from the fact that you have weathered at the beginning, that the Minister of Justice should not give any direction in the top coward, but now you want an instruction! Mr Jarolim! You don't know what you want. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Because he doesn't know himself!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Justice has talked about speeding up the proceedings. The civil process novel is now under debate in the House. I very much welcome this bill, I think it is a very essential step towards speeding up the procedures. It is not like the former Minister of Justice Michalek, whom I very much appreciate as a lawyer, who has said again and again that the proceedings will be handled shortly anyway. Of course: 90 percent of the proceedings are concluded with a legally valid payment order or with a failure judgment. But what is the benefit of the individual who often needs four, five, or six years until it comes to a judgment in the civil trial when perhaps his house is auctioned because a claim is not made? That is why I very much welcome this project. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As far as Mr Jarolim is concerned, it is incomprehensible for me to say as a lawyer that the opposition to a payment order will be abolished. Please, Mr Jarolim, how long has it been since you issued a payment order? It's probably your law firm. There has never been any contradiction against a payment order. There's no contradiction! [[Abg. Neudeck: He's got to fight at the front door!]] In fact, even the anticipated eventual maxim is not an eventual maxim, but only an attempt at a procedural acceleration, because the lawyer then has to justify himself – why didn't he repay this claim before? This is also a real step as well as the introduction of the preparatory day-to-day statutes. At the moment, the decision-making day-in-law is a farce. This is a convenient case for the lawyer and the court, I admit. But that's not the meaning of a daily statute before judgment. I therefore very much appreciate the fact that the preparatory session should go towards an advanced High Noon, with an informed person also to speak and answer, whether processes can be ended at this early stage for the benefit of all, for the benefit of the budget, for their own good and for the benefit of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4013	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4034	Mr President. Mr. Justice Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krüger. — (NL) Mr President, as a lawyer, I think we should always prove ourselves worthy of a certain seriousness, practice it, serve it. I think you have shown exactly the opposite to my colleague, Mr Mertel, your previous speaker. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think it is not worthy in the sense of a correct political debate – I say extra: not worthy! – to act in such a way. [[New condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would now like to engage with you in a very serious and correct way – including you, Mr Justice Minister – which is really deeply involved in democratic policy foundations, which show a profoundly democratic policy approach and is deeply embedded in human rights principles. This is worth it, here in Parliament, now and today. I can only say one thing in advance: These fundamental rights issues, these human rights issues are also linked to access to justice for me. Minister of Justice! They say again and again that mobility by car is, as it were, an argument for reducing district courts in the country. They once said in committee: 600 cars come to 1,000 inhabitants. Now in plenary, you're talking about 700 passenger cars coming to 1,000 inhabitants. Please, for me, access to the right is not a question of the number of cars. That must be clear, too! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] – I say that as my judgment of values, and that is serious. Excuse me, but I can answer that clearly. Not least because it will be in the Carinthian Landtag – I say in the Carinthian Landtag; read it – there will be a special meeting on this very serious issue regarding district courts. Secondly, on the fundamental right of human rights. – Mr Justice Minister! Again, my colleague, Mr Lunacek, has already pointed out that in Austria we are already in the final European area, with regard to the equal treatment of lesbian and gay partners. In this respect Portugal has overtaken us, the Netherlands has long overtaken us. There were requests from the Greens who had previously been rejected. Why does not a liberal party or a party that may also have liberal roots – I correct myself – seize the possibility to introduce liberal fundamental rights in this partnership area? You could be positive about that, that would be a possibility. Please tell me what changes in rental law, tell me what changes in labour law, and tell me what can change, above all in so-called partnership relations at this level, so that we can have European standards again! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to my main concern, because I am replying to the question of democracy policy, fundamental rights issues, human rights issues. Interestingly, in this House it has not yet been the talk of a particular economic process, namely the merger of the magazines "profile" and "FORMAT" – an economic process that has profoundly democratic political consequences. It was not yet the result of this megafusion, which will have been described by a Mr. Pirker as the "super-GAU" in the democratic landscape of Austria and also in the media-political landscape of Austria. I asked you in committee, Minister of Justice. But my problem is: You are and remain a lawyer. As a lawyer you represent interests, represent clients, represent lobbys, represent the liberals. But now that you're Minister of Justice, You should be guardians of rule of law and democratic principles. They wanted it to be until the end of February 2001. In mid-February, you have announced a great deal, you will carry out the recovery against this merger. You have the opportunity to do so. You are practically the last instance that could have made this return. You've also announced it. Mr Krüger has also been very serious about this. There are quotations in the "standard" of you, Mr Krüger, before which I draw the hat. Only: Then you, Mr. Justice Minister, fell back. ==References== February – They put up the lawyer’s hat again, the Justice Minister hat put you down, it became 24 o’clock – and there’s no return! Minister! It's a crasher! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think you would have been guilty of democracy in Austria, you would have been guilty of justice and you would have been guilty, above all, of your own reputation and, I repeat, of the roots of a party that could or could have been liberal. I'm allowed to come back to something for a second. In the Committee you replied to my question that the recovery had no prospects for the following reasons: social-partnership courts, experts in the majority against the withdrawal of this judgment, at high costs, the Republic's threatened damages and so on. I knew that I dropped out in the APA notices, I read in magazines, I researched. Please, it's not like that! There was – with this I can show you again and again the history of this very, very, very worrying process – voices, very well-founded and also international, which meant that a return was possible. After all, you should only have paid more attention to your own financial procuratorship. There was – "sheep ripe!"; You could have pulled it out of the drawer right away – the recursive procedure, there was the opportunity to object. Even though it should not have been guaranteed success from the outset, as Minister of Justice and as a representative and representative of the judiciary, you owe it to this justice and also to the Austrians that you create legal clarity. And a recurrency is legal clarity, is a step towards legal clarity! You should have done that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What's at stake? – We have conditions in Austria about which the Financial Times Germany formulates – I quote –: "The press landscape in Europe is worse than in Austria only in Belarus, Croatia and Moldova." Please, that's what the Financial Times Germany writes! This is not a judgment of an opposition party, it is not a judgment of any Austrian magazine or newspaper that may be in competition with this megadeal. No, that's what foreign media say, and I've read foreign media in particular. I read the "Süddeutsche Zeitung", I read the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung" and the judgment was devastating! I do not want Austria to be exposed to the mockery and pangs of Europe in this respect, for example, in the "Süddeutsche Zeitung" on 7 May. The following is hereby titled: "State-hazardous cowardice". – Unfortunately, you, Minister of Justice, have also shown the risk of state-hazardous cowardice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Perhaps a Minister of Justice, Ofner, at the time when the liberals were even more liberal, would have ventured the return. I trust him. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I didn't know there was that!]] – Then it is your judicial deficit that you do not have this knowledge at all. I didn't study Jus, but I know. If you, as a longtime lawyer, pretend you didn't know that, excuse me, I can only laugh! That's all I can say. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But the teachers know everything better! That's what we know.]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] – Thank God there are them; Thank God, for I really appeal to one in this respect – how should I say? – The basic task of civil society is to show abuses of human rights and the lack of fundamental rights. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You can register as a mediator!]] This is in itself the task of every citizen and citizen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can only point out once again that 63 per cent of the daily newspapers, 100 per cent of the weekly political magazines and 62 per cent of all weekly publications of various disciplines are now united under one publishing roof. That's twelve titles! More than 69 percent of all readers who are over 14 years of age are now, as it were, now united in the roof. On the other hand, media have repeatedly protested. The resistance was not small, but it was too weak. Above all, I noticed: ==References====External links== It may fall on February. Minister! You've announced you're going to re-curse. Mrs Secretary-General Rauch-Kallat said: The Minister of Justice will also have to explain why he is not going back. Mr Klubobmann Khol has always held himself discreetly in the background and has said that this is not his case. That's why he's not taking care of himself. Klubobmann Westenthaler said on 26 March. February: It looks very zappenduster for the return. Interestingly, 14 days earlier in the election campaign, the Vienna elections said the smallest or the former – or how to say? – the simplest of all party members, the head of state of Carinthia: That's a scandal! Something has to happen! Ms. Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer said at the beginning of February: It's a megafusion. And then, at the end of February, it was over. There was a deal! And it must be stressed that President Hoffmann said on the legal day: Recourse has chances. It should also be noted that Dr. Auer, Chief Prosecutor at the Ministry of Justice, said: Recourse is authorized. It must be pointed out that even the relevant Univ.-Prof. Böhm said: The Republic and the Government should object. The return is necessary. These were expert opinions; but you've gone beyond that, you've easily refused to profile yourself positively – and that's what I'm talking about. I have to say again: You have really failed in this area of democracy policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This failure is also documented. In the "Presse" Andreas Unterberger writes: The Republic should have kept the backbone here. A "recursion against the dangerous monopoly in the magazine market" is necessary. I call the "Salzburger Nachrichten"; Andreas Koller wrote there on 14 May. March 2001: "Instead of taking legal or at least political action against fusionitis in the magazine sector, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of the Interior and the President of the Federal Republic of Germany on the Internet are making advertising for the "Fellner" product..." – this is, unfortunately, the political culture in us. Or in the "Standard" the statement of the OSCE agent for media freedom was to read Freimut Duve: The risk of Berlusconisation is present in Austria. From abroad, we are thus repeatedly served that we are now more or less a banana republic – that is also a quote from the "standard" – a banana republic in a media-political way. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: How in Italy!]] Allow me to conclude my remarks with a reference from the simple party member; this was also read in the "Press": "Kärntner Landeshuptmann Jörg Haider (FP) regretted the recess. "It is sad, but it is so."Yes, it is really sad, but it is you, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4199	The Federal Minister has spoken. I announce that his previous speaking time was 19 minutes, and from the twentieth minute it will be deducted from that of the associated parliamentary group. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4223	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I must comment on these allegations that Austria is now a banana republic. I can tell you the following: The return appeared to be really promising at a first exam. But that is in the nature of the matter. Time limits for appeal are available to examine decisions and legal situations and to make the actual final decision immediately before the expiry of the appeal period. The fact is that, in the course of the procedure, the financialprocuratorship, on the basis of an agreement between two social partners, namely the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce, on the one hand, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, on the other, has made the statement that further steps and examinations do not appear to be necessary. This was at the heart of the need for legal examination during the period of recovery. There have been three opinions that have considered the return to non-successful prospects, one has answered this question. It is still to be said that a return must have a certain probability of success, because the current procedure can also damage mergers. I've already said publicly: I'm not in the situation that I'm loved by "formile", i.e. "FORMAT" and "profile", or – vice versa – I love these media, but it was just objective to consider which prospects of success exist here. On the basis of the so-called non-judgment, the question was in the final result for purely legal reasons, I would like to say to you: regrettably to deny. But another thing you didn't mention at all. Why did no one of the competitors really participate in the process? – The only medium that has taken part was that of the Freedom Party, represented by Mr Krüger, but those media you have now quoted have, of course, not taken part in this procedure. Maybe you can ask questions in this direction once. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There was therefore no legal clarity to be expected because, at first instance, a professional judge and two lay judges sent by the social partners through their intervention there were, in second instance, there would have been three professional judges and four lay judges. These lay judges come from exactly those circles with which the agreement was originally agreed. That is, one could not know whether they felt bound to that view that their bodies, perhaps for good reason, represented or whether they did not feel bound to it. Legal clarity was not to be expected, therefore, because the next time, in a similar constellation, one could not rely on a certain Judicatur, but on the uncertainty about how the recruitment of the representatives of the social partners would be in this court, which was or would be the dominant question. That is why the only correct consequence has been drawn: The antitrust law will be renewed, abuse control will be expanded, unbundling measures will also be extended. I think that's in your mind. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4280	Mr Dr. Drinkl came to speak. The clock is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4302	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This coalition has taken place under the motto "Rerule Austria". [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Yes, exactly!]] After a year, we can actually make a considerable balance, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. The highlight is the presentation of the 2002 budget – not only the first budget in euro, but also the first budget for 30 years, which no longer provides for new debt. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's not true! 20 billion schilling new debt! That's an absolute holler!]] Justice policy, Mr Kostelka, can also have considerable success. The Chairman of the Justice Committee, Dr. Fekter, has clearly brought this to your attention. In contrast to the opposition, we see the work in the judicial committee positive. They refuse to cooperate, we are consistently committed to the implementation of important projects, characterized by the efforts to cooperate with the staff of the department, but also to cooperation with numerous experts. Our goal is to find good solutions, ladies and gentlemen, and we were successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Jarolim has expressed in this respect a lack of renunciation. The world is unconstitutional about the state of justice. I can tell him the following: There are a lot of people without words about his being praised as a member of a committee of inquiry, although he was a legal representative of the central character of the chair. More: As a parliamentary employee, chair priest Jarolims was his confidant. Mr. Jarolim managed to make the "affair Euroteam" an "affair Jarolim". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Networking makes the world smaller every day; the competitiveness of the Austrian economy is also influenced by the legal environment in which Austrian entrepreneurs can move. We must therefore take into account developments in the EU when it comes to legislation. I would like to ask how more often not to develop the wrong ambition in the implementation of EU directives than to enter into the history of implementation winners. We must not make our economy worse than the EU's competitors in the world. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The increase in e-commerce also poses difficult challenges for the justice sector, and the enormous opportunities offered by this new medium also pose risks. The EU e-commerce directive must ensure that the Austrian economy retains every opportunity to achieve additional turnover, but that legal certainty is also achieved for all parties involved. In contrast to Mrs Stoisits, let me say that the Ministry of Justice is also an example in its own field of information technology. I quote from the "Salzburger Nachrichten": "On the data highway, local justice is on track. Electronic traffic is booming. ... At e-mail, Austro-Justitia has the nose in front. In the case of eGovernment, the eGovernment, the eGovernment, is leading Europe-wide. ... On the data highway, justice is on track." – That is the way Mrs Stoisits is doing! The "standard" also acknowledges the efforts of the Ministry of Justice. He concludes by a comment by OGM market researcher Markus Ott: Customer service, information and communication are crucial, but personal contact is also important. - Quote. They allow me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to say a few words in this context about the forthcoming change of the judicial organisation. The concern is known. It is about getting powerful district courts that also allow specialisation and representation schemes. We know this is a sensitive topic. But it can't be that every Federal Minister thinks only about where he can limit small units. We also need to take regional policy into account and also ensure the functioning of the decentralised centres, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It would be optimal to draw up a master plan to combat the devastation of rural areas. While we are emphatically insisting on the fact that in rural areas, administrative units are closed to bring them together in central places, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] – You have only discovered the districts since you were in opposition. At the time you were in the government, you spoke a completely different language. Think of yourself, Mr. Jarolim said. Think about it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] A successful way can only be to take seriously the invitation of the national conference and to work on a common solution with the individual federal governments, with the involvement of the representatives of the cities and municipalities. Mr. Federal Minister! We are ready for these constructive discussions, and I am convinced that if we make an effort, we will also be able to come up with good solutions together, as has always been the case with other issues in the field of justice. The opposition occurs and plays total opposition: Be against it at all costs. We are looking for the constructive conversation and are successful with it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4405	Mrs Hlavac's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4427	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krüger asked Mr Mertel to apologize to several people. I think he should actually start with the excuses, because you, my colleague, have made really anti-female, tasteless statements. [[Abg. Achatz: Well, well!]] [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] While Mr Drinkl has spoken about constructive cooperation, it has already been mentioned several times that cooperation in the field of justice is no longer as good as it used to be. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: She's always talked about the miselection!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] I can very well remember that it was actually so that we worked very well together in many areas. I regret that this is no longer the case. Nevertheless, I would like to expressly say – not only on our own behalf, but also on behalf of our group – that we do not mean the officials of the department with this criticism. We know that the officials of the judicial unit work very carefully, and we are very glad that the quality in this department has been preserved by the officials. However, I would also like to thank other people in the field of justice, namely the judicial guard and the judicial authorities who are now working under very difficult conditions, because these savings are, of course, having a negative impact on their work. In connection with justice, I note with satisfaction that the judges are very likely to oppose it if they feel an attack on their independence. This also proves these 1 300 signatures. Justice is very sensitive, and I really think that is very important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! You have now talked again about the judge in the cartel proceedings. I have listened very well to you and also to the debate last week. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] They have just withdrawn from official secrecy in a very crucial area. You must not be surprised, therefore, when mistrust arises, because this was not only a disdain or disdain of Parliament, but it also gives the impression that something should be hidden in the case of unbiased people. Federal Minister! I think it is important that we can work well in this area. If a judge feels disabled, then this is to be taken seriously and then you are called upon to do something about it and to ensure that justice works. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to add to what Mr Mertel said: If the "simple party member", your long-standing client, the head of the state of Carinthia, says that critics in the public service should be laid the craftsmanship, then this is a language that we are not used to in the Second Republic, and I expect from you a clear distance from it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would now like to turn to two specific issues that are very important to me. This is, on the one hand, the area of victim protection which has already been addressed. I hope it will be possible to reach consensus. A lot has happened in recent years. I just remember the law on the protection of violence, which is truly exemplary internationally. We have repeatedly reported from other countries that we are trying to transfer this model to other countries as well. This is very encouraging, and I would also like to stress that cooperation with the police has a very positive effect. There are also other important things that have been implemented, especially the gentle hearing in criminal proceedings for certain victim groups and much more. I believe that in this area, however, more could be done, that improvements would be possible, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope that it will be possible to reach agreement on this, because it is stressed from all sides that the situation of the victims lies at our heart. I would also like to say a few words about what Mr Mertel has been discussing, but no longer had the time to carry it out, namely to the communities of life. It is necessary to recognise the social changes and also to ensure legal certainty of developments. Many people prefer one Living together without a marriage permit, and on it the legal order has to change. It is not about completely equalizing this community of marriage, because there should remain a margin, there should be the possibility of choice, but there are a number of areas in which injustices and misunderstandings arise; I think we should do a lot of things there. An example of this: According to the inheritance tax law, the companion is equal to a total stranger. I think that's something no one can see. The same applies to the state's right to return if there is no will. I'm sure that's something no one can see. I have personally experienced cases where there was no will – this is especially true of those people who do not have so much to inherit, the case – and then the companion looks through their fingers. And that is certainly not fair! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We should go through the legal system. We will surely find a number of areas where we should be active. The same applies, of course, to the legal status of sexual relations. Here too, we should be a little more courageous. I would remind you that recently the Steermärk Landtag has adopted a very courageous resolution. [[Abg. Steibl: But only in residential law, Mrs. Colleague! Don't turn everything around!]] Maybe we too can get up and do something. Ladies and gentlemen! We have put in place a number of important proposals in various areas of victim protection, the execution of criminal proceedings, the criminal code – I can't do it all now in the near future. We are therefore very likely to be a constructive opposition and not a total opposition, as Mrs Fekter has said. We are ready for reforms, but we also have a right to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4582	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Jarolim and Mr Genossinen is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4606	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank you, Mrs Hlavac, for your basic statements. Of course, you have also made very strong criticisms, but you have provided an example of the fact that the Committee on Justice still has a great deal to do with the matter. That's exactly what causes me to give you an information because you're obviously wrong here. In reply to the urgent question mentioned, I did not refer to the official secret, but I referred to the fact that § 35 of the Public Prosecutor's Act states that the National Council's plenary session is not informed by diaries. I have underlined this with the addition that my predecessors have also kept it that way. And anything else, I think, would be a false legal interpretation. Your disappointment on this point is not understandable. I would like to say very briefly: The judges are not overburdened by the justice, but we are on a good path. ==References== January 1995 there were 1,590 judges, now, per 1. January 2001, we keep – despite the savings measures! – with 1,717 judges. We save only 38 judges of just over 1,700 in the three years 2000, 2001 and 2002. This means that in the three-year period, we save only 2% of judges. And you really can't feel that as unbearable. However, I am very grateful to all members of the Committee on Justice for the subject of cooperation, particularly with Mrs Fekter, with Mr Dr. Ofner and also with the representatives of the Green and the Socialist Party. There has been a lot of criticism and polemics, but in principle we have always made an objective decision. Finally, I would like to express this explicitly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4648	The next speaker was Mrs Papházy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4669	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, on Mrs Stoisits' comments: I have learned that the Green Group is the unpronounced word, which counts, and this also explains to me some misinterpretations in your speech, which, for example, leads to access to law or to the bilingual district courts in Carinthia. The aim of the justice system is to facilitate access to justice for the people. The modern means of communication – that has already been mentioned by Dr. Drinkl – play an important role in this. On the website of the Ministry of Justice you will find necessary, interesting information about the judiciary and also services such as company book, base book and edict file. However, better access to justice is also ensured by the planned reorganisation of the court structure. It is very good that Minister of State Dr. Dieter Böhmdorferseit gives particular attention to his taking up this question. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As has already been said, the Austrian court structure dates back to 1848 with minor changes. The reform discussion is necessary: to increase efficiency and prepare the courts for tomorrow's requirements. The discussion has been running for 78 years, even in the 1960s, almost 40 years ago, and it is good that an intensive discussion on this issue has been held since the summer of 2000 – a discussion involving the municipal government, the municipal government and the state governments. Mr. Dr. Jarolim, you have yourself on 17 November. Last July for the reform of the district courts, and you also know that consumer protection, which has now been in the Federal Ministry of Justice for exactly a year, is best represented there. Of the previously quoted statements about "thinking", I hope I didn't understand them correctly, otherwise I have to reject them. What should the reorganisation of the courts look like? There are three levels of organisation: Regional courts, Supreme Courts and Supreme Courts. The 192 District Courts and 21 Regional Courts are grouped together into 64 Courts of Appeal. The appeals are concentrated in the Oberlandesgerichten, which results in a uniform case law. The Supreme Court will be relieved and will only be necessary for fundamental, directional decisions. In the service of administrative reform, company consultant Arthur Anderson reviews the ministries and the administrative equipment for greater efficiency and says that the modern, efficient judicial organisation has the highest priority. We heard: Two thirds of the district courts employ a maximum of 2.9 judges, 29 district courts at all less than one. Katharina Krawagna-Pfeifer also misinterpreted how close to citizens is misinterpreted on the 18th century. ==References====External links== "Just as old as the idea, are also the arguments that are presented against the resolution of the micro-citizens. The battle call of the Saviours of the Small District Court has been: Close-up. It is automatically suggested that the resolution of the small judicial units would no longer help the applicants to find this, or that this would not be delivered to them in the desired quality. However, the opposite is the case. Even the advocates of ‘small is beautiful’ should finally recognize that the existing structures are anything but satisfying. At present, judges are often referred to as ‘insurers’ up to three courts and are on the road as driving companies in matters of case law. This is not always beneficial for the quality of the case law." - Quote. Also, the personal acquaintance between judge and judge may not always be pleasant for both. In fact, legal information and judicial assistance are very often related to personal issues. Legal advice in an increasingly complex European environment should be provided by lawyers who are also responsible for consulting. In my view, it is important to strengthen the involvement of lawyers and to define the precise arrangements for this greater involvement of lawyers in the service of the people seeking justice. Ladies and gentlemen! International comparisons show us that the concentration of judicial agents is that the specialization of judges within larger judicial units is for the benefit of the people seeking justice. Ladies and gentlemen! For better access to justice, a reorganisation of the judicial structure is necessary, and I hope, Minister of Justice, that all political groups will support and contribute to the reorganisation of the judicial structure within the meaning of the people seeking justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4745	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4767	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I will address the contribution made by my previous speaker, in terms of the closure of district courts, even more precisely in the second part of my section. But now, Minister of State, on my two concerns: Locking and locking up – these are the key features of justice policy after a year's turn in addition to the wave of public confidence in the independence of justice. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You want to talk about this, but you can't do that!]] Lock and lock – and I will justify that too. That is why I am saying this because last year two essential laws were introduced, namely the Jugendgerichtsgesetz and the Addictions Act. What is this about in the Jugendgerichtsgesetz? – The criminality of young people is reduced from 19 to 18 years of age. And what does that mean, Mr Colleague, Mrs Colleague? This means that even more young people are being criminalised, that even more and more younger people will go to prison, and that is, criminalisation of young people. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Brosz]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: If they are senior, they should also take responsibility! We'll take them seriously!]] You know very well that this was one of the few cases, Mrs Fekter, where God had succeeded in bringing at least a little reason into this bill and taking into account the opinion of the experts: taking into account the adolescence between the ages of 18 and 21. This is a path that has been taken across Europe and which is also important. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Brosz.]] The second law – and this is particularly tragic – which you have noveled was the addiction law. First, you have started to change the regulation on the addiction limit, which is the result – and you know it very well – that in the future more young people, sick, drug addicts, are also being detained in the lower area, even after WHO assessment. [[Abg. Kößl: And to be fed a therapy!]] This is the result of your missing drug policy! They have gone down from the main principle of "help instead of punishment!"and that's sad, that's tragic, and that's not worthy of this state. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Brosz.]] The budget figures in this area, however, show no increase that would actually be implied if you were to lock more and more people down, criminalize. On the contrary! Inflationally adjusted, the budget in the chapter on justice will be around 2 per cent less. Federal Minister! Have you made sure that these young, drug addicts don't only have a contact person, namely the judicial guards, but also that they get the necessary medical care, namely a doctor, a social worker, and perhaps a psychologist? I'll ask you that! There is nothing to be seen in the budget, but these people belong to medical care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, to this chapter: Kärntner Seite repeatedly requested: Show more heart! I ask you, Minister of State: Also, show your heart to these young people who will be locked in more and more in the future! Show also hearts for the drug addicts, young people and their families! Her colleague, Dr. Partik-Pablé, put the following: "I too am a mother!" – I can tell you that I met a lot of mothers, including court, and they were very concerned about their children who suffered from pre-punishment, who had difficulties getting back into the professional world, and who also had difficulties finding themselves outside society. More heart – that would be important for the families too! In the second part of my remarks, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to turn to the judicial organization, the subject that affects very many people in our country: the blocking of district courts! I am also of the opinion that not every district court must be held, but it can't be, Minister of State, that you say – for example, in the example of Tyrol –: There are nine district heads, district authorities, and according to the number of these district authorities, the district courts are now to be divided. This may have its accuracy in a big city, but not in a country like Tyrol, not in Western Austria, in the "land in the mountains"! The geographical situation must also be taken into account! [[Abg. Haller: There is a district capital!]] Mrs Haller, you say there is a county capital. - That's right. Let me give you an example. Let us, for example, talk about the Schwaz district; unfortunately, Mr Brugger is no longer in the hall. [[Abg. Haller: You are so involuntary of reform!]] – This has nothing to do with reform unwillingly! The entire valley, for example the Zillertals, complains that the district court Zell am Ziller is abolished. I would have liked to ask Mr Brugger what he says about this, and not about the people at home here in the House, because I know what he says there. I also know what your President-in-Office of the Party in Tyrol, Mr Eberharder, says on the spot. He says: Of course, the Ziller cell must not be closed. He even refers to the Federal Minister who had promised him not to lock this District Court. I don't know if that's true, Minister of State. That's what you tell yourself in the Zillertal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Apart from that – because you say that we are unwilling to reform, Mrs Haller – I bring you an example of lawyers, including judges. For example, a lawyer says: For example, if a citizen from Tux, from Ginzling, from Brandberg, from Gerlos has to come to Schwaz for a trial or a day's statute, for example, which is scheduled for 8 o'clock, then he should arrive a day earlier, because a journey by 8 o'clock is not possible. - That's it! As in the past, 1848 – you, Mr. Federal Minister, also spoke about it in the committee – when you had to spend a day traveling carriages for it. It's a difference whether I live in a big city and get into the subway, into the S-Bahn, or whether I have to drive by car because no public transport is available! And because you, Mr Federal Minister, have also spoken about the enormous density of traffic and traffic in Austria, I say to you: These people I'm talking about often don't have a car at all. Why does anyone go to court? You say the Austrian might go to court once in his life. I ask you – I don't know any more soon! –: What about all those who divorce? Every second, third marriage in Austria is divorced. What about all those who argue about the care? These cases will increasingly occur, which has been confirmed by the entire expertise. This new obsoric justice will make many more people land in the district courts because much more judicial law will arise. This has even been confirmed by the family judge from Bavaria. Family disputes, disputes of care, rights of visit, matters of property, matters of land transport – all these cases are brought to justice at the District Court! And if someone dies in the family, there is the leave process, and this too will be done at the District Court or at the Notary. I tell you, Minister of State: When closing the District Court Heart, show those people who don't have it so easy that they may not have a car, so that they have at least the same access to the right as those who already have it easier! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4892	The next speaker was Mr Kößl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e4914	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Wurm, I am now reading something to you from a statement by Mr Kräub on the reform of the district courts. It points out that the Court of Auditors also recommends the merger of district courts. For populist reasons, it is tried to preserve obsolete structures, complains herbs, but this causes damage to the population because too small district courts are more inefficient than larger units. – I say to you: The SPÖ must first come to a line within the group, and then it is right to speak here. However, I would like to expressly comment: The closure or merger of district courts is certainly a very sensitive and delicate issue. We all have to admit that it is necessary, especially in public areas, to adapt the structures to the actual circumstances that people need on the ground so that the tax money is also used meaningfully and efficiently. In the case of structural adjustments, there should also be no consideration of the impact on the ground and should be included in the considerations. I am convinced that if you prepare this matter rationally and well, you will also get the trust of people on the ground of these mergers and reforms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! One of the most important foundations of a democratic rule of law is the confidence of citizens in justice. But what has happened here in Parliament in the last few days and weeks does not necessarily help the citizens to have this confidence outside. It is so scandalized by the opposition, it spreads distrust, it insecures people, and it really lacks the materiality that is so important in the judicial community. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The 2002 judicial budget is a very constant budget and does not differ significantly from the previous year's budget. Given a reduction in the total budget of 0.5 percent, the idea of saving is given, but it is certainly not possible to speak of a savings budget. Of course, it would be better if we could make ourselves here and say: Dear Austrians! The SPÖ Finance Ministers handed over an orderly budget last year, they have managed well, we have a budget surplus just like in other countries, and this cake also gives the judicial unit a strong hand! . We would already know what we are doing with this money, how we use this money, would we not, Minister of State? But unfortunately we have to make ourselves here and say: The SPÖ Finance Ministers have left us a debt mountain of 1,700 billion Schilling, which means that we pay over 100 billion schilling every year only at interest rates, which is almost 300 million schilling every day. 300 million schilling daily! [[Abg. Brosz: Were you also in the government?]] You'd say to us: The way in which this resort was led can be compared to a farmer who is working together to get out! But I'm going to describe it and say, There was no sense of responsibility! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Ex-Finanzminister is not here now. I would nevertheless like to say that his speech on the budget last week shook me. He said that, in view of the 2002 budget, he would recommend that the coalition government comply with their SPÖs when the next budget is made. I hope the youth has not heard this because it would doubt our ability to solve the problem. My speaking time is already coming to an end, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5002	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kößl, by Mr Fekter, Dr Ofner and others, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Pendl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5027	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Austrian judicial system is excellent and is a guarantee of our rule of law – all the more we should consider in the political debate. Our common thanks, I believe, are due to all servants of the Austrian judicial system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the change from the 2001 budget to the 2002 budget that is crucial here, but when we look at the last three budgets, we note that a very restrictive budgetary policy is being pursued in this area, in particular in terms of both matters and staff expenditure. I believe that the work in the field of justice, in all parts, is difficult enough from the courts to the prosecutors' offices to the non-judicial area and to the execution of the sentence. We should therefore jointly provide the necessary resources so that the heavy service can be carried out there in the interests of our home country and its people. Allow me to make a few comments on the comments made by my previous speakers. There is no question at all, and I agree with Mr Drinkl that it is very dangerous for us to discuss only the question of closing or reducing the district courts. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Party! In the last few weeks, we have heard here from the Government Bank, by Mr Bundeskanzler and Mrs Vice-Chancellor, that the task reform committee will consider and then submit proposals to the House and all other parliamentary bodies. The danger that I see and recognise as a Member of the rural community is that, according to the overall definition, this will be a ballast of the rural area – one cannot limit itself to a place of business, Mr Federal Minister – from school, ladies and gentlemen, to the area of finance to justice. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] But I think that rural people have the same right as those in the agglomerations to find the necessary infrastructure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As it has been said here that social democracy does not know exactly what it wants, I can find a clear word on this: We have always said that small courts can, of course, be the subject of discussion, but have always assumed that they are only courts in which there is often no even a judge or a court plan. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to address an area where heavy service is always provided under the exclusion of the public, namely the execution of the penalty. While it is commendable and desirable that the prison stand has commuted, the number remains about the same, but the inmates, that is, all the experts, become more difficult from year to year. This means that the clientele in the Austrian execution facilities is more difficult to treat. Federal Minister! If you still have fewer staff and less money for the work, it is of course even more difficult to provide the service accordingly. I warn you, ladies and gentlemen, to organize the service exclusively at the expense of the staff. It cannot be the last conclusion of wisdom that staff are reduced everywhere: safety, night duty, prison departments, workshops. This does not have anything to do with a modern or a human punishment, nor does it have anything to do with the security idea, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I mean, if the execution of the sentence already has a meaning, then if you look at the legal order, he has first of all to ensure security, but also that people are busy and, if possible, a resocialisation can take place. Federal Minister! You have already promised us several times that there should be an overall concept on the Austrian execution of sentence. We are all in expectation of this approach, and I believe that it is time to take the necessary measures in this area in the interests of the State, but above all in the interest of colleagues in this field. I hope, Federal Minister, that there are no incidents in these areas – unfortunately, in the past something has happened from time to time; you cannot rule out this – where you then discuss at the political level how this could happen. I would really like to urge you to come up in this area with those measures and implementation steps that we have discussed together in many different discussions in order to finally come to a normal service in the Austrian judicial institutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5115	Mr Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5136	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr deputies, you and everyone else should know: There is already this concept. It's very extensive. It's time-consuming until 31. March 2001 – what you see here is one of the many volumes. We are studying the concept now and will implement it. Second point: The claim that fewer personnel are available must be seen relatively. I even think it's wrong. ==References== There were 3,469 staff in the judicial administration in January 1995 and 1st. January 2001 was 3,467. In other words, we have practically as many employees as we did six years ago in the judicial service. In principle, the numbers of prisoners have not changed. I just wanted to say that so that it is clear that there has not been drastic personnel savings now. Everything else would be wrong. Another information: ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website January 2001 7 767. Since we can book the use of information technology there, we have a declining work attack at court. Overall, this means a little less work for equal numbers of employees – however, there are some increased efforts and requirements there and there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5179	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mainoni. The clock is set to 5 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5200	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! On the basis of the discussion and discussions of the opposition, I have the impression that there is already the realization that a reform of the judicial organisation is necessary, but I also have the impression, as was the case with Mr Pendl's speech, that we are doing according to the motto: Wash my fur, but don't make me wet! The fact is that, ladies and gentlemen, this will hopefully also be undisputed by the opposition, that a reorganisation of the judicial organisation, which has existed in this form or in almost this form since 1848, is necessary. We have 192 district courts – I may briefly discuss the statistics here – and 15 percent do not even have a full judge. 23 courts – or 12 percent – have only one whole day judge. And 25 percent of these district courts do not even have two judges to complete. A comparison with the neighbouring states – the Federal Minister has already explained this anyway – shows that there are much larger units there to the general satisfaction of the population there. A comparison with the district authorities shows that the considerably fewer district authorities in Austria are working to the satisfaction of the population, although the population is much more frequent than the courts. So it will probably not be too difficult to jump over the shadow and agree to the reorganisation of the district courts, despite some of the dear children of a member of the government, a district court or a friendly judge. Another important issue, which has just been dealt with in the National Council, but which I believe will continue to deal very strongly with justice in the future, is the threat posed by the dramatically increasing number of drug offences. Ladies and gentlemen! Over 230 dead last year, forced to act! I believe that the government has responded exemplaryly here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Our foreign exchange is, of course, "help for punishment", which is not at all a question, but, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the opposition, there is certainly no mercy for drug gangs that make young people addicted to profit. For life it is the right answer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The opposition has also repeatedly been said that the experts have been vehemently opposed to life in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I therefore come to a third issue, which we hope will continue to deal with during this legislative period, and above all will be dealt with. Let's blend back into the 1970s: The criminality of homosexuality has been abolished in the 1970s. But all the experts – whether they were doctors, scientists or lawyers – agreed at the time that male youths must be particularly protected, as the puberty and post-pubertary influence is crucial for homosexuality. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – This was the expert opinion of the 1970s. I only point to the fact that the predecessor of § 209 was created at the time, while at the same time disfellowshipping the criminality of homosexuality. Ladies and gentlemen! We must note that expert opinions can also change over decades. We should take note of that. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] All the experts know that this was a mistake today, because according to the theory of embossing, it is the genes or the early childhood development that are ultimately relevant to homosexuality. For example, § 209 has become the crossfire of the European Court of Justice. Differentiation with regard to sexual orientation is an inadmissible breaking of the principle of equality. – Mrs Lunacek, I am pleased that you are here now. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we have jointly decided to set up a subcommittee to deal with this issue. I personally am confident that in the XXI. The legislative period ends with the age of discrimination.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5266	Mr Heinzl is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5287	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The fact that the government parties are working through their non-social projects according to the motto "speed kills" is already well known. In November 2000, ÖVP and FPÖ adopted the Budgetary Accompanying Act 2001 and with it the construction associations exclusively owned by the local government became one. It was taken out of the community in April 2001 if it had not been opted in until then. A deadline is now to be introduced, i.e. the 23. In November 2000, the exclusive ownership was determined. The railways' housing company – and this is entirely legitimate – has decided to sell a small share in order not to fall under the new regulation of the housing law on public utility. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Your intention is so transparent! With this event law you put beinhart Their interests against the fully legitimate interests of a housing company and its tenants. This is not only politically and morally, but also, as I believe, very worrying. But that's nothing new to you. We Social Democrats remain in our legitimate criticism of the 2001 Budgetary Support Act in connection with housing public utility. The people must be constantly reminded of this, because you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, are also taking all social achievements with feet. For every tenant or owner, it makes a difference whether the owner is a private person or a non-profit cooperative. The private one looks forward to increasing his money, but non-profit people work on the basis of the law on a cost-effective basis. They do not have the direct income pressure to which a private person is subject, they must not increase their profits by renting income. They are therefore speculation-free, social landlords or houselords. This, in turn, brings security and continuity to the tenants of non-profit apartments or row houses. The proceeds of the non-profits – and this has been noted here – automatically flow back into the corporate or economic cycle. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Your kind of housing policy, which you want to carry out since the beginning of the blue-black coalition and sell as a social one, actually brings legal uncertainty and disadvantages to those who pretend to protect you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Under the guise of trying to change the legal situation for the workers in this country, you decide to make tough arrangements against the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes. Our task as social democrats is to show the population what you decided to do with atrocities in this House last year, and not to let go of them. I would like to express my wish once again: On the part of the government, it is promised that the rents for apartments and buildings sold or sold to private investors will remain unchanged. However, there are fears of rent increases. Private investors who acquire such objects are of course interested in high returns. They will try to exploit all the means of yield. In addition, the non-profit-making construction associations are the norm for unlimited rental contracts, but on the so-called free market, the temporary contract is gaining more and more ground. The security of residence is replaced by the imminent expiry of the lease. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, it is clear that ÖVP and FPÖ are doing everything they can to re-acquire the population of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5350	The next speaker was Mrs Haller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5372	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Wurm, on your regret and the crampy search for arguments in connection with the "poor" inhabitants of the Zillertal, which you have presented, I would like to say one thing: [[Call the SPÖ: You don't know what you're saying!]] Especially for these "poor" valley dwellers, it is natural that they regularly travel 90 kilometers to Innsbruck to the DEZ or to Ikea, but for a ride that you really only have to do on a case-by-case basis, since not everyone has to do every day or every week at court, you make a theatre. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You have no idea!]] I can only explain this by saying that you are not asking for reforms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I think we should go back to a serious debate in the field of justice, but this is not intended by you. I would therefore like to highlight the positive work of Mr Böhmdorfer's Minister of Justice – we already know that you only want to "adapt" him over and over again. I think it is very positive that Mr Böhmdorfer, Minister of Justice, is committed to a new approach in the field of social policy; We have been thinking of ways which we liberals have stimulated since we were here in this House, but which have been disinterested by the previous governments. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Keep your speech in Tirol!]] I believe that it is very important – Mr Ofner has already said that – that we try to limit where it is going to be restricted in the area of the division, and that we try to create clear rules in the area of mediation as well. I am proud that we have put some emphasis on a certain degree of intensification in the Drugs Act. We liberals have always known us that a certain degree of discipline in the case law can often be useful. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It has nothing to do with the fact that we don't want to help. We want to be very helpful – the motion for a resolution that has already been tabled proves it – but we are committed to helping the victims, not the perpetrators, Mrs Wurm! For me, it is inexplicable that in the criminal field there are such deficits in the case of crimes against women and children, against which social democracy has not done anything. This discrepancy between robbery with death succession – life in criminal law – and rape with death succession – is not understandable only 10 to 20 years. They have never committed themselves to a life-long imprisonment if serious sexual offences lead to death. I think it is also necessary to make a certain increase in the threat of punishment in the event of sexual need, because there is also a discrepancy: in the event of need, six months to five years are imposed, and in the event of sexual need this is limited to three years. That's incomprehensible to me! I am very glad that the Minister of Justice is in the process of introducing changes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or child abuse: I believe that crimes against children do not deserve tolerance. We are truly committed to the need for more consistent action in the execution of the sentence, not as negligent as has been the case so far. A little more to Mrs Prammer, who has just come: In the social-democratic women's policy, sexual harassment has been a major issue for years – I too recognize that we are taking action against it. I am pleased that Mr Böhmdorfer, the Minister for Justice, even wants to go the way in the near future to create a judicial, criminal, crime-related situation of sexual harassment. – Everything that has not been heard of social democracy in recent years! [[Abg. May. Prammer: Go!]] Mrs Prammer! You hardly have anything in the time of your women's ministry – hardly anything!; I don't want to say: nothing at all – passed on. [[Abg. May. Worm: We now have a men's department!]] I am very glad that we not only want to confess to punishment, but also really want to help that we not only support this motion for a resolution, but that Mr Böhmdorfer has already taken first steps in the area of process support and better support for process support for children and women. That's why I say again in your direction, towards SPÖ: Don't cry so much, don't cry so much – everything you're sorry about now is actually your own failure!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5486	The next speaker was Mrs Huber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5508	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Haller, you have now demonstrated very clearly how the liberals deal with the concerns and problems of the people. It is certainly very interesting for the affected people who fight for the preservation of the district court cell at the Ziller, when you call it "jammere". You should be ashamed of it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It should be noted that the work aid for the Justice Budget chapter is due to the fact that in 2001, the higher revenue is due, in particular, to the withdrawal of exemptions from fees and to adjustments to fees as it is so beautiful. In one word: It is more to pay if the citizen is seeking justice. This is very interesting, because the blue-black government has at least taken action to save to reduce expenditure – even in itself, the government wanted to save! The result is a massive increase in revenue, a massive burden on the population. In particular, the massive increase in court fees is something else: This cost increase for the right-wing population means a huge barrier to access to justice for many people – it has already been mentioned several times today – because the high costs are, of course, deterring those who cannot pay the fees so easily, and those who have to budget with every schilling. Minister of Justice! Even if there is a dramatic turn in justice – a turn to more "law and order", a turn on the independence of parts of justice, and a turn, as is now being dealt with by critics – I have to say, if simple people are now difficult access to justice when barriers are built up, then I find that very, very bad. If the right-winger is also wrong to live in a rural area, then it is added that the district courts are also being rationalized. In my district, too, a district court is to be "extended", namely the Mariazell District Court. Mr. Minister! You said in the Committee on Budgets: There's no way past that! It is an exaggerated and hopeless struggle of national leaders and mayors who are led by these district courts! And as an argument – and this has already happened today – you cite the higher mobility of the population. I'm asking: Is the individual's access rightly a question of whether one or more of his neighbors have a car or not? Since I cannot imagine that you, Mr Minister, for example, have personally visited the Mariazell District Court, I can tell you how the population of the Mariazeller Land would then have to hold a trial in Bruck. Mariazell is 70 kilometres from Bruck. – 70 kilometers, even if it's a mountain pass, can't be such a problem, you want to think. But it will be a problem if you look at the timetables for public transport: The mailbox runs four times a day – twice in the morning. But since the bus needs two and a half hours to Bruck, you definitely have to use those at 6 o'clock in the morning. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] From the bus stop in Bruck there are two ways of reversing twice, because there is no direct public connection to the court, or 15 to 20 minutes on foot – for older people and for young mothers with children, for example, when it comes to a maintenance claim, it is really not easy! Although the driving time for these 70 kilometers is one-quarter to one-and-a-half hours, only in the summer, from mid-May to mid-October, in the seven months of winter there is ice and snow and the creation of snow chains on the 1 100-metre high mountain pass. Minister! I therefore urge you to rethink the lawn mower method in the closing of district courts and not to sacrifice the Mariazell District Court for these reasons! Access to justice must be a right for all, do not cut it with massive increases in fees, with a drastic reduction in the number of judges and with an undifferentiated lockup of district courts!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5587	Mrs Haller spoke in favour of an actual correction. Member of Parliament, § 58 para. 2 GOG states that you must start playing the claim to be corrected and compare it to the corrected facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5614	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mrs. Anna Huber, claimed that I had called the concerns and needs of the affected population "pity". – That is not correct, and that is also legible in the protocol. I'm correcting: I have referred to the way Mrs. Worm has looked for arguments as "pity".
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5653	Mr Böhmdorfer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5674	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Huber, you asked that the Mariazell District Court be preserved. I should like to make the following point: This is the absolute smallest explosive in Austria, with 4 800 inhabitants. If we were to set up such explosives in Austria, we would need 1,800 to 2,000 district courts in Austria. I ask you: Do you really want that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5707	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Saviour. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5729	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Böhmdorfer, I am very grateful to you for making it very clear here that it is not true that Mrs Huber's claim here is that the lawn mower is being crossed by district courts, but that there is a need to save where there is no justification for a district court, because the relationship between legal cases that are being treated and the cost of the district court is simply no longer true. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He confirmed this!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me come to the real issue, namely the judicial budget. The judicial budget for consultation is rather modest in relation to the budgets of other departments. Nevertheless, Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer has succeeded in making a very important funding, namely the financing of an area in which the old coalition has practiced social cold. In fact, the old coalition has cut off the legal practitioners – which are certainly not among the big earners of our country, who had to deal with about 15 000 S gross a month – in the year of the court, piece by piece of their earnings, and they have even gone that far – Mr Jarolim, I do not know if you were involved, but probably you were involved – that they were the removal of the 13th and 14ths. monthly salary of legal practitioners. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The colleague was involved!]] The removal of the 13th and 14ths. The VfGH thanked and rightly abolished monthly salary for the legal practitioners. This policy you've made was unsocial. Because you have repeatedly accused the government of hasty and speedyness and inconsistency, I can quote from the knowledge of the Constitutional Court, which has found that there has been a sudden reduction in reference of more than 14 percent. Quote: "The measures to remove the special payments were also not linked to a concrete general budget package." – So she was planless, shortened. I quote: "The smaller, economically weaker group of legal practitioners appears to be not to be able to exert much more pressure on them. A derogation from the advance estimates for the calendar year in question does not entitle you to one" – and now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, to look after you – "so massive, almost inadvertent and partly retroactive correction." - Quote. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer has taken care to ensure that the legal practitioners – like all other servants – in the court year a 13th and 14th. In the case of the United Kingdom, the rate of increase in the number of persons employed in the labour market is higher than the rate of increase in the number of persons employed in the labour market. This clearly shows that we stand by the liberals in our promises that we have made in the opposition. Mr Graf, Member of the European Parliament, and the Association of Free Students, have actively collected signatures against this non-social burden measure, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, have decided to take, and have also strongly supported and prepared the way to the Constitutional Court. This, ladies and gentlemen, is social policy, which we represent in all areas, also in the field of justice, where you have created injustices. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to stress that this Federal Government, particularly in the field of justice, has already implemented many major reforms in 2000. For example, I would like to recall the measures against the tow-free system, where the criminal framework has been increased. I would like to remind you of the new residential law, which provides for a fundamental reorganisation of the time-limitation possibilities for lease contracts. I recall the Krida reform, the criminal process novels, the Childhood Law Amendment Act. These are all important reforms to adapt to the circumstances of time. As a particularly important step, I also consider the last week's decision-making of the novelle to be the addiction law. This amendment to the Addiction Act, which provides for the possibility of life-long imprisonment for heavy-dealers, for wholesalers, for the heads of international drug gangs, will make a significant contribution to the fight against organised drug crime.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5803	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e5825	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, I have a very brief answer to the last urgent question. In your reply, you have expressed the opinion that the non-information from diaries goes back to § 35 Public Prosecutor's Act. Federal Minister! That's the point of understanding! . We didn't want to see you, Mr. Federal Minister, but we wanted to get some information from you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I notice: You refused this information! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One can hold the following to the budget: Like everything else, the judicial budget is subordinated to the budget targets. Reforms, which are also necessary from our point of view, are seen exclusively from the point of view of saving – Mr Krüger said: for the benefit of the budget – and a problem solution is being put in place, which is to demand higher penalties. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The "Salzburger Nachrichten" held the following: "Wronglessness of criminal law! In the past, politicians promised the Austrians a better future, and today they promise only more stringent punishments." - Quote. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This is new government! This is the new quality of justice policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Fekter, examples please? – Federal Minister Böhmdorfer on the subject "Save": Federal Minister! I see you went to the accountants. There's the consumer brochure "You're right." Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That's an act of subjugation! [[The speaker shall raise the above-mentioned issue.]] In the future, consumers will have to pay for legal information. Federal Minister! I'm sorry! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Next example: Legal Information Centre and JUDOK. Federal Minister! I admired you when you said legal information was worth more than a few million schilling. What does the Federal Chancellor say? – The Federal Chancellor says: The RIS is subject to a fee. What does that mean, Mr. Federal Minister? – I do not think you have deliberately said the untruth in a press release. I think I'm venerationful Ladies and gentlemen, this example shows once again that this policy of the government parties is a policy of plea, abuse and pans. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The following example is appropriate: Witness charge without a residue card. – Mr Federal Minister and Mrs Fekter, talk to lawyers and judges, and you will find out what chaos there is in the courts. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No! That's not true at all!]] Talk to the legal practitioners, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You have no idea!]] You know what's happening? – This will increase costs. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You have no idea what it costs!]] The list of such examples could continue. A few more examples: Reorganisation of the judicial organisation, reorganisation of judicial bodies. They save on night shifts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Mrs. Partik-Pablé, do you also think you should save there? - It's not us! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You have no idea!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Experts' opinions are not heard by this government. The thinking ability of the experts is insulted. They act right-wing with presumptuous simple recipes from the past. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You as an unimaginable man!]] They're called: more punishment! They are recipes that are basically wrong. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! My sympathy belongs to those who are unjustly accused. I'm on the other side of it. In the discussion on the Civil Procedure Novelle you said clearly: I'm on the consumer side! . You have the opportunity to vote in favour of our motion for a resolution. I shall now make the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're an unimaginable man!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have the chance to agree. Mr Partik-Pablé! I'm not unsuspecting, you were unsuspecting when you went to the Vienna election campaign! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But how!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6044	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, has been tabled by the honourable Member. Maier and comrades are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiation. Mr Böhmdorfer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6068	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Maier, I would like to make it clear: The RIS remains free! Deputies! I didn't say the untruth anywhere. This is my knowledge, and it corresponds to the current situation. I don't know how You have this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6099	Mr Neudeck has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6120	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To the budget chapter "Justiz" was not much usable to hear from the opposition politicians, especially from the comrades of SPÖ. Comrade Jarolim vulgo "Eurolim" in preparation for the defence of charges of payment and payment against his client's chair priest of "Euroteam" to facilitate access to justice in these cases. Other comrades refer to the snow from yesterday, the top coward, reference. I can quote you from an article by Peter Michael Lingens in the "profile" from the previous year. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Lingens is good!]] Among other things, he writes: "But with all antipathy against the FPÖ, I can't see in the ‘spitty’ scandal the mega scandal that the government is supposed to bring down. This is probably due to my profession and my age – I just have too good a memory, which the SPÖ has not brought down everything." And then he writes: "A building minister who entered the trade union fund; a health minister who legally awarded a 100 million contract; a defence minister who bought fire control equipment at a double price; a finance minister who withdrew taxes; Bauring-Scandal, AKH-Scandal, Noricum-Scandal; billions of losses by national companies due to speculation and false economic policies; the two largest banks in the country are disruptive and only caught by state aid; a... Federal Chancellor, who breaks the Waldheim affair from the fence; and a sixfold murderer, who as a host of almost total red fame is protected a decade from prosecution." Lingens writes: "Profile" has lived for two decades that police officers, prosecutors, investigators, financial and audit officers have passed on confidential material to us". Lingens writes: "All the megascandals mentioned above would never have been revealed and, above all, never been accused if no reporter had been instigated for the abuse of office and no official had executed him." [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Say a sentence on the 2000 budget!]] - I told you. You haven't been careful, colleague, as most of the time! And then Lingens puts another on it: "In past red flowering times, something like this wouldn't have happened: As a result, Minister of Justice Christian Broda, unlike Dieter Böhmdorfer, successfully made sure that procedures that could harm his party did not reach the stage of the preliminary investigation. And few... have been outraged about it at the time." - Quote. Harald Ofner would say: Put that on the mirror!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6171	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak. Mr deputies, please start by playing the claim to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6195	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In his last statement, Minister of State Dr. Böhmdorfer claimed that the RIS was not feeable. I'll put it right: Under the Budgetary Accompanying Act, a fee is to be paid for the use of the RIS.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6264	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6285	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by referring to two comments made by Mr Mainoni, who made a very remarkable speech on § 209 StGB. There is a deadline request for treatment for this afternoon. The application for a period of time has been made since the beginning of this legislative period. A subcommittee was set up in September last May, but there has not yet been a meeting of this subcommittee. Now we are very excited whether you will show up in the afternoon of this deadline... – I know where you are going; [[Calls.]] You're probably right, too. The question, however, is how you will deal with this deadline. We hope that this subcommittee will meet in the foreseeable future. The second statement from you – and this surprised me – was about the drug statistics. I received a question yesterday from the Federal Minister, who says that statistics for the year 2000 are not yet available. I do not know where you have the exact data; they would also interest me, especially in the distribution. But the state of the ministry of yesterday was: The drug statistics for the year 2000 are not yet available. – It would be good if we had the same level of knowledge, because then we could discuss it. I would like to address another problem. The drug debate in the context of this debate was relatively discreet today, but still a few things that seem important to me. The first point: I have put a relatively large question to you, Mr Federal Minister, regarding the problem of drugs. I have already noticed that in Austria it is not possible to distinguish between drug statistics between cannabis products and between – well, let us say it once salopp – all that is hard drugs. There is no distinction between the Austrian drug statistics by different drugs. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: The Greens were for a release from marijuana!]] I'm wondering, How should a sensible drug policy take place without at least discussing data together? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this respect, there should be a common interest, even if we are very different in content, so that we have at least a basis on which we can discuss. Mr Minister, you have not been in office for so long, perhaps you will have to arrange for a division or a clear assignment in the future. As I said, this has nothing to do with a matter of content, which is simply a matter of the fundamentals of drug policy. Mr Kößl, in an interlocutory call – I do not see him at the moment – to the comment of Mrs Wurm, that it will lead to greater criminalisation – I share this comment by Mrs Wurm: But people are then given drug therapy! – This is something new for me, because there is no forced therapy in Austria. I hope she'll never be. The point is that people who are drug addicts can only be treated – and that really means any scientific study – if they want to, and not if you pretend it politically. To withdraw drugs, the will is the essential criterion. To say that they are then more criminalized, but treated for it, is evidence of ignorance in these matters. This completely goes beyond reality. In my opinion, this also shows the ambiguity of what really happens to drug addicts. Federal Minister! In the question I have already referred to you, I have also specifically asked you how to deal with the problem of "drugs in prisons", and in particular how to deal with the problem of drug use in the prisons, which I believe is certainly not preventable from becoming a massive risk of infection. There are international projects, with needle exchange programmes trying to reduce damage to the detention centre. Your answer to the very specific questions you are planning was only that disinfectants are provided. The question was not really answered. Maybe you can do it here. In other European countries, these coniferous exchange programmes already exist. There's no one saying it's desirable to do that. By the way – intermediate –: I think the drug-free zone programme in prisons is very useful. I support that too. Nevertheless, it should also be noted to those who are drug addicts who are still in detention under the more severe conditions, that one cannot prevent it from happening alone with the intention not to happen. I would therefore think it really useful to take such measures as they are currently being put in place internationally – I say it again: Needle exchange programmes – to rethink in Austria and come to what drugs policy understands as "harm reduction", namely damage reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6336	Further word message: Mrs Dr. Fekter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6357	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier pointed out here and, in the context of his actual correction, claimed that the RIS would be chargeable. That's wrong! I have here the report of the Committee on Budgets. Mr Maier, you obviously slept what has been decided in the Committee on Budgets. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the liberals: How often!]] In 499 of the supplements, the following was decided in Article 1(5) – I quote –: "The data of the RIS and the content of the Federal Law Paper are to be provided on the Internet." This is not the case here. We therefore have a unique state in Europe: that access to the right is free of charge via the Internet. There is no such thing as this throughout Europe, in this respect we are exemplary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That you sleep the legislation, but that's what we're used to!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6423	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. Does the rapporteur, Mrs Speciale, want the final word? - That's not the case. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the consultative group V of the Federal Proposal for 2002. This includes Chapter 30 of the Federal Estimate in 500 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen, who have given their approval here, including the mentioned print error correction, to a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group V of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stoisits and comrades on crime victims protection. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, and so the request is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jarolim and Mr Comrades on more rights for victims of crime. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, and so the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fekter, Mr Ofner and Mr Comrades on the further development and intensification of the protection of victims. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This request was adopted unanimously. (E 80.) We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members. Maier and comrades on the re-codification of the Civil Consumer Protection Act – "KSCHG-NEW". I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, and so the request is rejected. Advisory Group VIII Chapter 60: Agriculture, forestry and water management Chapter 61: Environment new
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6557	We are now entering the negotiations on the Advisory Group VIII, Chapters 60 and 61. There was no oral reporting. Mr Wimmer, the first speaker to speak, is Mr Wimmer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6584	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It will probably not be so easy to switch from the chapter "Justiz" directly to the chapter "Agriculture", but I will still try to bring you there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The budget for agriculture increased by 2.4 billion schilling last year. The same height was rewritten this time. This is basically nothing bad, but it is striking that in these two budgets there have been only two places where an increase has taken place. These two resorts were the defence resort and the agricultural resort. But now to the distribution: Mr Federal Minister, how are the funds distributed to businesses? . I do not know exactly how many applications we Socialists have already made for the fair distribution of agricultural support; I only know one thing: They have all so far been smeared or rejected by the majority of the ÖVP and FPÖs. That means that from your side – and this I suppose to you – there is no interest at all in distributing the many billions of schilling distributed in this area more justly. Mr Federal Minister, it cannot be said that there are still businesses that receive funding in millions that deposit 10 million, 12 million, 18 million, even 20 million schilling on annual funding! Such absurd amounts are no longer about existential measures. It is quite clear and clearly about maximizing profits for large farmers at the expense of taxpayers. And this is unsocial, unjust and immoral! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can say from this point of view, Minister of State: As long as you, on the one hand, massively promote the farmers in favors with millions of amounts of money and on the other hand leave the miners to their fate, leaving the miners in the rain, so long you will not have us as allies. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is always a lot of talk about the "Feinkosladen Österreich". But our organic farmers have no chance at all to survive. They are deprived of the financial basis. If we remember that in the last budget the resources for consulting, which up to then amounted to 14 million schillings, were reduced to 11 million schillings and these are not increased this year, we will know about the importance of the organic farmers with you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What does that mean? What are the consequences, ladies and gentlemen, of this? – This is the result of the fact that, last year alone, 5,000 organic farms have toweled the towel in Tyrol. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: How much?]] Five thousand organic farmers in Tyrol alone last year. – That means that organic farmers in Austria really cannot survive. But this is not a miracle in this non-social promotion policy. The address of the government groups is: They have no interest at all in our organic farmers, in our organic farming, otherwise such a policy could not be implemented! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Are you buying from organic farmers?]] Another example, ladies and gentlemen, We have been demanding a base amount for years, and it has been promised by you, Mr Federal Minister, years ago, but to date this base amount has not been introduced, until today this base amount has not been implemented. That is why I ask you to: Finally, fulfill your promise! Miners need this help to survive. Otherwise it's too late, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A next criticism is your water policy. We know that there are 700 000 Austrians who do not have sufficient quality drinking water. We know that the rehabilitation areas are fixed and fixed, but when will you finally take the decisive steps to improve groundwater? When will you set the economic constraints for these areas? It may also be possible to think about imposing economic bans on these areas. Federal Minister! There are a lot of questions you haven't answered so far. I would like to conclude by saying: We do not recognize in this budget a spark of rethinking towards ecologisation, towards greater justice. For example, there is no rethinking in support policy. There will continue to be the funding millionaires, and the miners will continue to be threatened and blinded by their existence. There is also no signal towards organic farming. Thousands of organic farmers will leave in the near future because they cannot survive. This is not our agricultural policy, not the agricultural policy of the Social Democrats, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore we will not support this budget in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6665	The next speaker was Mrs Achatz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6687	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Wimmer, you have regretd that the favours continue to be favoured by the number of hectares and by number of animals. You have a right to this criticism – but all that was known before EU accession! This is the EU's agricultural policy, and you have always agreed! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Without When and But!]] Mr Wimmer! Your group has agreed by 1999 to each agricultural budget, which has been equipped with the same eligibility criteria, and the figures have also been the same. But now you stand out here and you can't vote for it at once. You're just doing this because you're not in government anymore. But that is unfair, and your criticism is not factual either, Mr Wimmer, although it is correct in terms of the wrong funding criteria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can only say to my group: If someone asks me, Are you satisfied with the agricultural budget?, then I have to say: No, it's not me, but I have to admit, it's the maximum possible, which is possible thanks to the chaotic budget policy of the Red Finance Ministers. They have left us a disastrous budget situation from the SPÖ, and unfortunately now God's farmers have to pay for it. That's just a fact. [[Abg. Where? The farmers are getting more!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Today we can calmly discuss the agricultural policy in Austria, but this is not possible without seeing the whole. Mr Wimmer and Mr Gradwelt: In Austria, there is nothing other than EU agricultural policy. [[Abg. Gradwelt: No!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – Of course! This EU agricultural policy has failed, and it has not only become an Austrian disaster, but this EU agricultural policy has become a European disaster. One has to imagine that four and a half million cattle have been burned and destroyed in the UK in recent years. Now the foot-and-mouth disease is added, and hundreds of thousands of cattle and sheep are burned. In the UK, every second farm will not survive this crisis, and politicians call this destruction "take out of the food chain". More than 40 000 tests have been carried out in Austria so far. There was no BSE case thanks to God, but the cattle farmers had to take income losses from 30 to 40 percent. And the consumer does not notice that the meat has not become cheaper for the consumer, quite the contrary, one is already talking about price increases. There's still something remarkable about this: The sales of bovine animals in Austria have hardly declined. The agricultural market Austria has little less marketing contributions than in the same period of the previous year. Now I'm wondering, The cattle farmers have 30 to 40 percent income loss, and consumers have to pay some higher prices – who benefits from this foot-and-mouth disease? Who benefits from it? [[Abg. Who? Give an answer instead of asking a question!]] [[Abg. Perfuss: Who?]] [[Further calls:]] [[Abg. Who?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The teachers!]] - I'll tell you. Now the foot-and-mouth disease is added, and again the great battle begins. Europe is a single battlefield, and everywhere the animals burn, or the meat is burned. But Brussels sees no need to put agricultural policy on the agenda of the EU summit. I wonder, Do not the governments in Brussels want to discuss it? Is it true what Mr. Karl Turecek writes in his comment "Farm Victims" in the "Welser Rundschau"? Mr. Karl Turecek writes – I quote: "Selected compliance assistants from General Food, Nestlé & Co." – for example Unilever – "half of the farmers have ruled away and prices have been cut into the basement. Because groups cut the farmers off millions of times, taxpayers have to pay half of all farmers' wages. That's also why and for the Tintenburges, tax rates vary by 50 percent." - Quote. We do not need to wonder about the global spread of foot-and-mouth disease. What is the background? – globalisation, deregulation and the free movement of goods. This one now shows his true face, and that's a joke. [[Abg. Swimmling: Are you a pro or counter-redner?]] Nowadays, around 250 million animals are transported across long distances in Europe every year. [[Abg. Zweytick: Not right now!]] – Perhaps not at the moment, my colleague, but so far it has been. English piglets are bred in Spain, slaughtered in Holland, disassembled in Germany and eaten somewhere in the world. Of course, the food companies benefit from any cost savings, and the Agenda 2000 has also been made for these groups. Price reductions in the intervention price of up to 30 percent will cost millions of jobs in agriculture. In Austria, this policy could cost 70 000 people in agriculture by 2007. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: What are we doing?]] Mr Kostelka! You asked me: What are we doing? – A revision of Agenda 2000 is urgently necessary. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We voted against it, but we will have to revise it. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer turns his back on the speaker and changes a few words with the president-in-chief Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The Minister doesn't listen to you at all!]] It is also urgently necessary to ensure that Austrian farmers are supported with self-confidence towards Brussels, for example in the dairy sector, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's where you have to turn! You have to tell the Minister!]] Federal Minister Molterer! The farmers have no understanding of the super levy. The Austrian farmers pay 22 percent of the European super levy, but only 2 percent of the milk quota. And because the old government and my special friend, Commissioner Fischler, have negotiated so badly, farmers should now pay the price, and also, Mr Federal Minister, in view of the fact that there is already too little milk in Austria. From Hungary, large-scale fresh milk is imported and dry milk is imported from New Zealand. And our farmers pay millions of schilling punishment for supposed to produce too much milk! Federal Minister! That's where we need action. It is also not understandable for the cattle farmers that the cattle premiums will not be paid until June and not now. As regards the unexhausted quota for male bovine animals towards the rearing of the mother cow and the Kalbin premium, negotiations with the EU would also need to be speedily negotiated, Minister of State. What the free movement of goods and the common agricultural policy mean for Austrian agricultural agriculture was known before accession to the EU, and we liberals warned against it. The Upper Austrian pig farmers hold 40 pigs on average; 100 is the EU average. The average percentage of hectares owned in Austria is 15 hectares, and the EU average is 20 hectares. Every hectare comes in Holland 190 kilos of agrochemistry, in the EU average 70 kilos, and in Austria only 33 kilos. And yet, the Austrian farmers are being punished for this really good, healthy and soil-saving production because they are exposed to the free movement of goods. The change in agricultural policy is an hour's commandment, and the main task of agricultural policy must be to ensure that the domestic population is fed by the products of its own farmers. Only then can the import come! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because of the crazy idea of globalisation, the trade multiplicity has succeeded in separating consumers from producers. And these trading giants, which dictate prices to producers, also determine the margins and the selling price itself. [[Abg. Swimming: Slow talk! ...Bumble in front of the mouth!]] – Minister of State! That's where politics has to intervene. There is a need for action – but not in the form that your Commissioner Fischler did, because you have to... – He is a special friend of mine, but I am not so wrong. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Swimmlein: Talk time! Is that your special friend?]] Many farmers confirm to me that my reservations are correct. I just remember what Commissioner Fischler has recently decided in the European Commission, namely the double-zero agreements. Watch out, that's very interesting! To this end, it says: In the view of the European Commission, the double zero agreements concluded with the eastern enlargement candidates in 2000 constitute an extremely important stage in the preparation of accession and the mutual opening of pigmeat markets. Under these agreements, the acceding countries can import 125 000 tonnes of pigmeat into the EU at a zero duty rate each year and this quantity increases by 13 800 tonnes per year! – Food and meat tourism has already been extended to the reform states. Federal Minister! We're convinced that's the wrong way. That's correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e6987	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e7028	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! The debate on the agricultural budget also gives the opportunity to address the current crisis of agricultural policy and possible future strategies. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Excuse me!]] I think Mrs Achatz has given an opposition speech here. It would also be nice if this were to be reflected in a committee activity or in a motion for a resolution. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the Deputies of Gradwelt and Schwemmlein.]] But one thing Mr Achatz completely lost sight of, namely the fact that the EU Commission knows very well that she is in the dead end. For example, I think of yesterday's APA report, in which Commissioner Fischler clearly states: We're responsible for this. The BSE crisis – as he says literally – can be seen in connection with EU agricultural policy, and we have not often wondered whether the industrialization of agriculture was correct. - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Excuse me!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's what Fischler says, and that's a clear confession of guilt. We have to make that clear. This confession of guilt means that not sufficiently clear and not really targeted agricultural policy and consumer protection policy has been made in Europe. That is the challenge. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You cannot push this away, Mr Auer. That's the problem! Even the EU's Economic and Social Committee adopted in October 1999 on the European Agricultural Model: European agriculture is much expected to be competitive on the internal market as well as on world markets, by increasing the orientation of producer prices down, by the processing industry and by the food trade. And at the same time, the Committee says: Of course, this is a target conflict with stricter animal husbandry and food requirements. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Have you already apologized? Otherwise, don't talk about the Republic!]] Mr Pumberger! You know what? Listen to me and try to understand the argument! You know very well that the Austrian pig sector is in crisis – an unprecedented scandal! This also confirms all the studies currently being carried out. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] 17 percent of the samples were inhibitor positive, Mr. Pumberger. You're a doctor, right? Are you pursuing consumer interests or are you just trying to polemise? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Achatz: They are criminalizing the Austrian farmers again!]] I believe that this is a point of view. I would also like to focus briefly on foot-and-mouth disease, which is currently the biggest crisis in the European agricultural policy. Let's remember: How did this crisis come about? – The foot-and-mouth disease has to do with changes in the European agricultural policy. Finally, the vaccinations were abolished in 1992. And what country has called for the abolition of vaccinations? - Please, that was Great Britain! At the request of the United Kingdom, the vaccinations against foot-and-mouth disease were abolished at the time, and the Eradication Strategy Programme was launched. This raised virus freedom to the top of the principle. In this example, you can see how counterproductive this is in a globalised world, which is also open in the agricultural markets, which is aimed at globalisation in the agricultural sector. One can no longer pursue this precisely because of the fact that this disease is of course not exterminated worldwide. It is found in Turkey, as we know, in the Asian countries, in China and in many countries around the world. She'll appear again and again. Currently high-end calculations in the UK are based on 2.9 million animals to be destroyed overall, and you can see how perfid this system is because it is actually aimed at destroying agricultural production opportunities as a solution strategy. Federal Minister! It would be, as I think, right to consider whether a vaccination strategy would be more sustainablely correct. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer shakes his head.]] - You shake your head. But, as I said, if you follow the other strategy, then you have to assume mass destruction in millions. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: No!]] If you want to, you don't have to vaccinate. I emphasize that this is a wrong development! This is not worthy of agriculture and is not correct in terms of our animal husbandry, because diseases will occur again and again. I'll give you another example. If, in the face of the crisis of food production and the pig sector, the low-Austrian piglets now decide not to vaccinate mycoplasm and no longer against red-run diseases, I tell you, this is scandalous! This goes beyond the problem, and this shows how little awareness of the problem exists here, because the solution cannot be called vaccination! All veterinary experts say that these vaccines reduce the need for drug use, so that preventive vaccinations, for example, also reduce the use of antibiotics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] One thing is certain: The European agricultural policy has failed, and Agenda 2000 has no question of renegotiating. There I am with Mrs. Achatz. But what are Austria's answers to this crisis? What answers do you give, Mr Federal Minister, in this budget or also in the context of the ongoing debates? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's the challenge, and we want to hear from you. I kept asking you about this and I wanted to know: Where's the development going? I think a clear consequence in Europe must be a destocking programme for industrial animal husbandry. This set-aside programme is essential, Minister of State. It is also necessary in Austria. I say this quite openly, even if we have other structures. Of course, I insist that we have a historically different agricultural area with a high mining content, but we also have landless livestock and we have small industrial productions. But it is currently a tendency to recognize a direction which we believe is very dangerous, in general for agriculture and also for consumer protection policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For example, it would have been desirable, Mr Federal Minister, if, in the context of the entire feed analysis, a higher quality Austrian feed had been used to force Austrian protein production and to make genetic engineering free of Austrian feed a new quality standard. I call on you, Federal Minister, to take a step forward here towards sustainable, forward-looking strategies for rural agriculture. And this can only be genetic-free; this is a clear thing, if you think of the story with the big corporations, the colleague Achatz has shown here. Of course, it is true that these large trade and agricultural groups have interest in farmers, not primarily as producers, but as consumers of their products. And this is about securing these resources for Austrian agriculture. This is the seed, these are also the animals, that is the diversity, the biodiversity that is still very large in this country – all this is to protect and secure accordingly. But now to the ÖVP position. It is sad that you are currently only using the whole crisis to whittling enemies and opponents everywhere. That's actually a far-reaching chance. ==References====External links== Write a big headline in March 2001: "Attack on farmers", because greens demand that food control should also take a stronger foothold in the stables, even in agriculture, then I no longer understand the world. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That, Minister of State, protect you, you cover it with your policy! They are always talking about a clear separation of control and production – but what is it really like in the field of veterinary control in the countries? [[Abg. Auer: The Lord's Supervisor!]] I declare it to you, Mr Auer: Veterinary control in the countries is located in the agricultural resort and is not part of the food sector. That's the challenge! [[Abg. Wenisch: It must work, Mr. Cot!]] At the federal level, this sector is "at home" in the food sector, but at the national level the respective Agricultural Council, the head of state, is responsible for this sector. This is a real conflict of interest. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Molterer.]] There is something you need to do, Minister of State, if you are talking about separation! In organic farming, Mr Auer, it is separate. The organic control is located in food control rather than in the agricultural sector, not in the agricultural department. That's a huge difference. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to show you how the ÖVP guides its own functionaries behind the light. In a broadcast of the Lower Austrian Farmers' Federation "Blickpunkt Agro – Information of the Functionaries" it is found – and I find that incredible – that in Austria everything is all right and that the functionalists should make it clear to the consumer that this is only about a few black sheep. But the conclusion is: The whole thing proves "that a new regime in the distribution of EU funds is not necessary according to environmental considerations and thus a change in EU agricultural policy." – This is the information of the ÖVP agricultural functionaries, the ÖVP Farmers’ Association to their functionalists! And you are still wondering, Federal Minister, that the farmers outside no longer know that they are in the trap of veterinarians who are going to house with dumping pricing drugs if their own officials always want to make clear to the farmers that no change in the European agricultural policy is necessary?- Oh, my God! – That is scandalous, I tell you! I expect an answer from you, Mr Schwarzenberger, a statement that you are going to make that such evasions, including green demands and legitimate demands, are finally abandoned within the framework of the Federal Farmers' Federation and its communications. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: What are the greens doing?]] You, Mr Federal Minister, yesterday – and this seems to me to be very important – spoke out in the Alpbach Forum for support for all agricultural support. They spoke there of a seasoning according to the size of the courts. When I look at this: Lip confessions in the framework of a symposium in Alpbach, and at the same time you are not willing to implement in this budget the possible modulation of agricultural support, as the France and Great Britain have done, then I have to say that is simply incredible. This is not the "maximum of the potential", as Mrs Achatz says, but it is quite simply the refusal to make full use of possible reform steps as part of Agenda 2000. Federal Minister! You have to make this accusation happen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The opposition has made many good proposals in recent months, but you have not yet addressed us. We have made an offer to discuss our organic farming action plan with you. – To date, I have not received any feedback from you on the subject. I would ask you to comment again on this once again, when we will finally have this debate on the action plan for organic farming. In your concept of organic farming, which you presented to the Ministry, no relevant budgetary statements have been made. If we want to remove the consequences of this crisis in the European agricultural policy, I would also like to remember two positive aspects of this budget. Positive from a green point of view is clearly the additional billions for mining production. The increase in mining promotion is an old demand. Let us say yes, that is a real step. I also do not want to hide that positive developments can be seen in the AMA seal. [[Abg. Auer: If it is so positive, you must agree to the budget!]] – It is not that simple, Mr Auer! I'm just saying that we're also experiencing positive signals, and these should also be called. Why should the opposition not indicate what it considers to be viable? We also find the clarifications in the AMA seal, which we have already discussed personally. I think it is right that the attitude of animals is increasingly included in this seal of quality. However, all this does not imply that essential new agricultural policy objectives do not happen in this budget. I would like to sum this up again: This must mean a clear offensive for greening in Austria, a clear offensive for a turn in the European agricultural policy, and for this to happen, price corrections in Austria are also necessary. Competition for quality, Mr. Federal Minister, yes – competition on the world market at the expense of consumers and farmers, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e7292	The next speaker was Mr Schwarzenberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e7314	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! It is rare that an opposition speaker, like Mrs Wimmer, has spoken with such an intellect as the first speaker on the agricultural budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If he has explained that there are only 5,000 organic farmers in Tyrol, less than a year ago, I must tell him that only 4 300 organic farmers in Tyrol existed a year ago. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So it can't have been reduced by 5,000. [[Abg. Prince: Learn how to calculate!]] There has been a decline in organic farmers in Tyrol at ÖPUL 2000, but the main reason was that it was very many small farms that were not embedded in direct marketing and that their products could not sell at a better price as organic products. This was the main cause of the decline in the number of organic farmers in Tyrol. Mr Wimmer has also explained that as long as the miners are not better promoted, you cannot agree to the budget by the SPÖ. Firstly, we did not expect the SPÖ to give the agricultural budget the consent. Secondly, if you had read the budget or had taken care of it in the Committee on Budgets, where this was discussed in detail, you would have noticed that we are increasing from 2.65 billion to 3.95 billion Schilling in the compensation allowance for mining workers and disadvantaged regions. This is a 50 percent increase for the miners. Even Mr Pirklhuber has recognised this increase for the miners here. And the SPÖ believes there would have been no change compared to the 2000 and 2001 budgets. So you should know about the budget figures before you go to the public with such things. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Another word to Mr Pirklhuber. I am very excited about how the Green Minister for Consumer Protection and Agriculture, Künast, will behave in Germany in relation to the proposal by Commissioner Fischler to grant a maximum of 90 premiums per holding. That would be a decomposition of the great ones. But I already hear from Germany that this green or so-called green Minister of Agriculture is quite vehemently opposed to the fact that large farms are being supported less, because that would be the end of agriculture in the new German Länder. There are also, and for themselves, those structures, as they were before the turn of time during the Communist period. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] For the demand for stockpiling also in Austria: Mr Pirklhuber, you already know that on average we have 20 cattle per holding in Austria. In the case of 20 bovine animals, it means that agriculture can only be used for hobby purposes, because it will certainly not be possible to live from it. Mr Pirklhuber! There was no surplus of beef until last autumn in Europe. Supply and demand have kept the balance, and there was no single kilogram of beef stored by the EU as part of the intervention, because the market performance could be processed and sold immediately. If Mr Pirklhuber does not find the stage in agricultural support, I must say to him: He should have looked through the guidelines for compensation for miners, because from 80 acres in this respect, the promotion of the aid is not planned at all, and from 180 acres onward. The ÖPUL programme also provides a step-by-step support of 100 hectares. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] One thing to be said about his claim regarding organic holdings is: We have reduced the funding of bureaucracy, but we have given the organic farmers more money than we have been. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] So far, we had promoted 16 organic farmers' associations, and these 16 had two other umbrellas, and as many organic seals as they had led to confusion among consumers, because this flood of organic seals was no longer explainable and no longer observable. There is still national funding in the current budget for bio-businesses, as it always conceals Pirklhuber. We have divided national support for farmers: 60 percent are federal funds, 40 percent are national funds. If you explain that the bureaucracy of organic farmers would be only more than 11 million schilling, then you will not be able to say that from land resources there will also be 7.9 million schilling. In total, there are 19.1 million schilling for 15 organic farming associations, more than 1 million schilling for the bureaucracy of an association. [[Abg. And what do you say about Mrs. Achatz's opposition speech?]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! I can't answer just the previous speakers. The main task of the agricultural budget, ladies and gentlemen, is to finance the promised payments for farmers. The budgeting of the funding shows clearly that Austria has negotiated well in Brussels and Berlin, including in Agenda 2000. I have here a table of all EU Member States. [[The speaker shows a bar chart.]] In rural development, Austria has by far the highest funding from all EU Member States with 40 000 S per worker. In comparison: In the Netherlands, there are 3 000 S per worker in the field of rural development. In Austria, there are already 60 percent of all rural development funding, namely the environment programme, mining aid and investment support, and this is also the focus of Austrian support. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenitsch.]] In view of the increasing demand for the renationalisation of agricultural policy, I would just like to give two examples which should encourage consideration. First example: Austria accounts for around 2% of the EU population and pays about 2.3 percent of EU funding because we have a higher gross domestic product per capita than the average. However, in the field of rural development, we get 10 percent of the EU's resources for this. That means: In this pot Austria pays in about 1.4 billion schillings and receives about 6 billion schillings annually. In other words, we get around 4.5 billion schilling from the EU more than we pay in. These are in the seven-year programme period, from 2000 to 2006, 41 billion Schilling, which Austria receives but only 10 billion compared to, which Austria pays in this pot during these seven years. That means: With equal payments to farmers, 31 billion schillings would have to be available for farmers in the Federal budget during these seven years. The second example is an example of the market system: England, Holland, Denmark, Sweden, Italy, recently Germany also refuses to maintain the quotas in the area of milk production. A quota system is necessary to enable farmers to produce milk in the mountain areas, even in the unfavourable areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If a renationalization takes place, these countries will abolish the quota regime and make milk production in favours, and then our miners will have no more opportunities at all. I would also ask you to consider this in this proposal. In the 2002 budget, the necessary resources are available to continue the eco-social agricultural policy, as started by Riegler, in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e7421	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e7443	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to comment on Chapter 60, Agriculture, and a second word on Chapter 61, Environment. I am already saying this so that this is clear at the outset and you, Mrs Moser, do not complain if I have not yet addressed the environment. Ladies and gentlemen! In this 2002 budget, a total of over 27 billion schilling is available for agriculture and forestry. With this budget, we can, of course, fulfill what this Federal Government has promised politically. First: We will collect all the European Union's resources available in Brussels for Austrian agriculture and rural regions. Secondly, It is also clear that the 40-billion package is naturally respected and implemented, namely that package – that of memory! – which has been the basis for Austria’s accession to the European Union becoming a reality from the point of view of agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! We are also exemplary in Europe with this budget. Others would be proud of the achievements of national governments. I therefore call on you not to ignore this aspect, ladies and gentlemen, even in this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In particular, representatives of the opposition said: They criticise the European Union that only 10 per cent of the funds for rural development and still 90 per cent of the funds are used for the market organisation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] If you calculate all parts together, you come to 10 percent if you take into account not only those in the agricultural sense, but also other rural parts. In Austria, we spend 60 percent of the funds on rural development, and only 40 percent go into the measures of the market order. This is an example, I would say, and also with regard to the need for reform in the European Union. I'd say, An example can be taken from us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is also the basis, ladies and gentlemen, for further expanding our environmental programme with this budget and providing even more resources for the OPUL programme. So that this is clear as well: Austria spends the highest amount of the environmental programme on all 15 EU Member States in absolute euro amounts, although it is much smaller than some of these countries. That is what we are looking at, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is also on the question of mining promotion. If you say, Mr Wimmer, we left the miners in the rain, then I would like to ask you to consider whether 3.9 billion schilling, 1 billion schilling plus, are a signal of in-rain standing. Mr Wimmer! Some other regions in Europe would be happy if so much happened to their miners as it is in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course it is clear that we also implement the base amount; the work is in the middle of the work. For the first time, the amount of the base shall be taken into account when changing to the individual difficulty and payment in this year. I admit we have to make the payout in two stages. This has to be done because budget constraints call on us not to do everything at once, but at stages. The implementation will take place this year. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that Austria is the first European country to receive approval in the area of LEADER+ and that, in total, 1 billion Schilling is available for rural people compared to the last period of the LEADER+ programme – federal, national and EU funds. I have to say: This is a real success of Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You can continue to sing a song, only it won't be true, ladies and gentlemen. I correct all the statements made by you, Mr Wimmer, and also Mr Pirklhuber, and make it clear: More money is available for Austrian organic farmers than last year! It is the relevant question, as I believe, that we make more money available to organic farmers in those areas that are relevant to them, namely in the public sector, in market measures and in marketing measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would just like to say a few words about what has been said so far, where I am not of the opinion expressed. For example, I do not think, Mrs Achatz, that it is right that Austria should raise the demand not to pay the super-charge, and I also tell you why. The most important asset for the Austrian miners is the conservation of the quota. If Austria were to raise the demand not to pay the super-duty, then the logical consequence would be that someone asks us what argument we would then use for maintaining the quota. It is clear that a weighting of goods in politics must lead to the most important thing being secured, and the most important thing for the miners is the quota. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Pirklhuber! I am not your opinion that you represent regarding vaccinations. I'll tell you why. The disease-free status can only have a land that does not immunise across the surface. For me, securing the disease-free status is the most important thing. Otherwise, if vaccinations are complementaryly necessary for disease measures, and that is possible as you know. In the meantime, this is also done in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. To the stockpiling program. You know, Mr Pirklhuber, I do not know what I am now. We know where the problems lie in the European Union! – They are located where the most intense productions are. They are located where the surface binding is not observed, where the nitrate directives are not complied with, where there are animal stock densities per hectare, which are adventurous, where there are giant industrial plants. Yes, it is to be stopped there, but it cannot be so that we, who are ultimately exemplary in this respect, should now do something in advance of obedience, which others would actually be obliged to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Pirklhuber! I thought we were in the Austrian Parliament and have the interests of Austria to represent. [[Abg. Don't look good, Pirklhuber!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber! They know that the Austrian constitution in the middle German administration only knows one partner for the federal government – and that is the state captain. As the national government internally carries out its task, this is the responsibility of the state government, Mr Pirklhuber. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now also a few sentences about the further perspective: I share the view that further development of agricultural policy in the European Union is essential. It should lead us that in the end it is no longer possible to link agricultural policy, as we want it to, at the same time as the High Song of the Free Market. We share this assessment: The limit of liberalism has been reached, even it must be removed. But I believe that we should deal with the following four topics very carefully: What operation do we want as a guide? – The rural family business. What kind of agricultural policy do we want? . We need market rules, we need to move on to rural development and to stagger direct payments according to operating size in Europe so that we do not bring our own businesses into a worse competitive position, Mr Pirklhuber. I'm not having for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As a third element, we need the inclusion of the food sector, the processing sector and trade in this strategy of quality orientation, marketing orientation within the meaning of the European food model. As the fourth cornerstone, we need the offensive policy for the rural regions. We need this not only for farmers, but for all the people in the rural regions! This is my access to the necessary development of agricultural policy, which wants to be well thought out and where it is usually the case that, although crisis situations need to be considered, proposals are often not the best adviser. First think, then act! That's my foreign exchange!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e7578	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Sima. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e7608	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, we have been waiting quite a long time now for concrete action in the field of agriculture in response to the various crises of last year. I'm excited how long we have to wait. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now on my real issue, namely the environment. We are now dealing with the third budget within just one year, and I have found in the creation of this speech that, unfortunately, the main criticism points remain the same. I will then deal with some issues, but at the beginning of my speech I will make a general comment. Although you stressed the level of the environmental budget in the Committee, you have boasted that we have one of the highest environmental budgets in recent years, I hear from various departments of the Ministry of the Environment that the operational budget of each department has been drastically reduced. This is not a small reduction, but it is partly up to 40 percent. This is a very "beautiful" cut for some departments, and I ask you how this fits together: on the one hand, a high environmental budget, on the other hand, very low resources for each department. Maybe you can give me an answer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the subject of Temelin last week we had a short debate. ==References====External links== Distort in this nuclear power plant, once again oil has run out. A few days ago, the various NGOs left the milking process. Mr Federal Minister, I am actually missing a strategy or initiative from you, until today you have not said what you are planning to get these NGOs back into the boat. I think that this is a little too little to say about it. I believe it is very important to have the NGOs in such a process as the environmental impact assessment in the boat that they must do everything they can to involve them. I somehow feel like you're heading for a crash in nuclear policy without taking any countermeasures, and I think that's more than unfortunate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: This is the NGOs' fault!]] To say that this is just the NGOs' fault, that's a little too cheap. It's a little too cheap. Even to the Pannserie in Temelin in recent months, you have unfortunately not thought very much. The Czechs say already that they will take the nuclear power station off the grid for a month in June. If you know the Czech colleagues, you have to conclude that the situation in the power plant must already be very dramatic if you voluntarily turn it off for a month. I miss a little bit of the advances from your side to say: We want to remove the nuclear power station from the grid until the environmental impact assessment has been carried out! – I haven’t heard from the Austrian Federal Government in recent months. I don't understand! [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: You didn't watch that!]] I've been very careful, you can believe me! Yes, yes! [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Not enough!]] Perhaps you once entrusted this to anyone in a little secret meeting, but unfortunately I did not hear anything about the APA reports. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Bad, then you didn't understand! So I've seen and understood all of this!]] Yes, Mr. Khol, I can imagine you've seen all of this. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I understood all this: Milk process, EIA!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mrs. "Stadtrat"!]] "Mister minus 10 percent" I can only say. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Be a little mild, Mrs. City Councillor!]] No, I'm not mild today! There is no reason for the environment to be mild with the Federal Government, Mr Westenthaler! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] The topic of climate protection: I do not, I believe, need to point out the dramatic situation that exists internationally after the US has practically announced its exit from the Kyoto Protocol. I am already aware that Austria is not really a major player on the international parquet – so realistically, I believe, you have to evaluate yourself – but you really have to do everything at EU level to continue putting pressure on the US. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Molterer]] In the newspaper "Die Presse" Michael Lohmeyer today writes about climate protection under the heading: "Hours of Truth." It is really an hour of truth, because you also have to remember alternatives. As it is at present, the US will no longer be put into the boat on the subject of Kyoto Agreements. It is now really high time to consider whether to make an independent climate policy in the EU. I realize that the United States is one of the main causes, but still, it cannot be the consequence of putting your hands in the lap and saying: The Americans have gone out, we can't do anything there! Therefore, I would like to ask you to act in this direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In Austria it is still such that we have to repeat the same criticisms as last time: For example, there is no national climate change plan. In addition, the 1.2 billion schillings that your resort itself has set out to achieve the national climate change targets have not been made available again. We're at about 650 million schilling this year. I already have the feeling that we are putting something on the spot in the field of climate protection. If we now add only 100 million schillings each year, we are really approaching the target of 1.2 billion schillings only very asymptotic and very slow. I would like to ask you: What perspective is there for climate protection in Austria? How do you imagine if year by year and budget for budget does not reach the target set by your resort itself? A brief comment on your own matter. It is about TBT, about tributyltin, the poison found in Parliament in very high concentration. It can be assumed that it is not only in Parliament, but also in ministries, in schools, in large office buildings. That would interest me, Minister: What measures do you intend to take in this area? When will there finally be a ban on TB and other hormonally effective environmental hazards? I believe that there is a real need for action to be taken not only in our interests but also in the interests of the rest of the population concerned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Finally, a few words on the Food Agency: The draft I have seen actually represents the opposite of what we have always wanted. We have called for a strict separation of production on the one hand and control on the other. What did you do? – For the first time, the Food Agency should also allow the Minister of Agriculture to directly influence food control. That is to say, the only area that has not yet been in the "fish" of agriculture – under quotation marks – is now still involved there. That's something I don't understand at all. I have also seen that large parts of the Federal Environment Agency should also be involved in this agency. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's not true!]] This is an absolute weakening of an independent and very well functioning organization, and I am completely enigmatic about why this should happen. You do not need to shake your head, Mr Zweytick, read the legislative proposal. It's clear in there: Departments of the Federal Environment Agency, which deal with food control, such as the genetic engineering department, are to be allocated to the Food Agency. – I think that is absolutely counterproductive. Mr Minister, you already have to be blamed for once again showing yourself to be a minister of interest in agriculture – against the interests of the environment and against the interests of consumer protection! [[Abg. Zweytick: Why?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e7805	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e7834	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's always the same lead when it comes to Temelin. Mrs. Sima! We have two options if we want to make progress with Temelin. The one possibility that the Freedom Party has repeatedly referred to – we have called for action with many requests – is simply to establish a link between EU accession and decommissioning of the power plant. However, this possibility is obviously only desired by us in this clarity, but not by the other parties represented here in the House, even not sought in this clarity. So this possibility is not possible once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Mr Gradwelt! The second option would be for us to seek, at European level, corresponding allies who support this project. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] Mr Dietachmayr, there are two green environmental ministers at European level in the countries that are primarily socio-democratic. After all, Germany is one of the most powerful countries within the European Union, led by a powerful Mr Schröder, with a very important Minister for the Environment Trittin of the Greens. I asked colleagues Molterer and some officials what the support from Schröder and Trittin looks like on this issue. The answer read: There is no such support when it comes to actually removing Temelin from the net. The same applies to France's support. I understand it more because, despite the Green Minister for the Environment, France is the "classical" nuclear power station country, while Germany itself has committed itself to an exit scenario in the long term. But both of these important countries with Green Environment Ministers and Social Democratic Heads of Government are unable to support Austria on this issue. That's why I'm returning to the first opportunity. Mrs. Sima! If we want Temelin to actually go off the net, we need to make it clear to our friends in the Czech Republic that this security risk must no longer exist, and if they insist on it, then there is no EU accession to this country. We have long explained to them the economic considerations that are completely wrong, but they do not accept that in a liberalised electricity market this electricity is already too expensive and can only be accommodated with subsidies. This is not accepted, so this possibility remains. Support You are our intention, perhaps we can then achieve something on this question! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But going here and yelling, that's too little. There is a real need to support concrete measures that are promising. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: The Federal Government has already agreed!]] Secondly, I would like to address climate change. It is quite good for many who have committed themselves to climate change, that Bush has now clearly explained clearly and clearly when it comes to it, should there be no compliance with the Kyoto agreement on the part of the USA. With this we have a common enemy on which we can now point and say: If the Americans don't do anything, then this project is condemned to failure anyway! Mrs. Sima! I agree with you when you say that we should be unimpeded by what is happening in America now, at all other levels, trying to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. At European level, at national level, at country level, at local level, and even at the level of individual households, there is the possibility of doing so. In fact, we should try to help ours to do so. I have just expressed the problem – and this was also the case yesterday in the transport debate – all of them are for this, but it is so difficult to make a contribution to it. Everyone signs when it comes to the maintenance of secondary lanes, but no one drives it. In my opinion, it is exactly the same if you want to implement the project to achieve a CO2 reduction. Federal Minister! I'm really a little depressed. At European level, we are in fact doing nothing more. One of the main Community tasks at European level is environmental protection. The ecologisation of the tax system, the instrument badly desired by all, and in all Sunday's speeches, does not make any progress when it comes to concrete implementations – with very few exceptions, that must already be said. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! I believe that it makes sense to make a clear commitment from the Minister of Finance – as we have to come from our side – here we take the first steps. I will use my modest weight to perhaps find an open ear to the Minister of Finance for the first ecologisation steps. Federal Minister! Together with you, I am convinced, we could also be quite successful with Minister of Finance Grasser. Now I am coming to speak to the countries that do not really use the opportunities they are given. The countries have so far failed to bind housing development to appropriate criteria. There are some federal states that are already better, such as Salzburg and Upper Austria, no question... [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Carinthia!]] Carinthia, at least as far as the promotion of renewable energy is concerned, has already decided on excellent feed-in rates, namely 10 s per kilowatt hour, Mrs Moser. That's what the other federal states have to do. 10 p.m. per kilowatt hour is certainly not a crack! If the other federal states imitate these promotions, at least some progress will be made in the use of photovoltaics. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do it to Carinthia, then it's good! - I just wanted to tell you that to Carinthia. Let's stay with the housing promotion. There are so many potentials, but it does not happen. What about the use of the means of transport for transport? – Failure to use the means of transport for transport. If I look at that, I have to say, In my federal state, the funds go into the promotion of fast buses. I think it is better not to use these resources than is the case. – So there is also a lot to do. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: Lower Austria!]] A number of things would also have to happen in the area of land ordination. In my opinion, too, we are on the wrong path if we continue to allow anyone who wants to build another family house or large-scale projects somewhere else. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Shopping Centre!]] Also the construction of shopping centres on the outskirts of the city is the completely missing way. There is still much to be done in this regard. We must, in order to ensure that all of this is enforceable – and that is the point – once again try to get Mr. Federal Minister, in the field of awareness raising to the point that it is not only natural for so long as one is not affected. Even if you are directly affected, it should be obvious that you accept these measures – even if they affect the comfortable life in one area or another. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is a need for education policy, there is a need to start with journalism, there is a need to start with ourselves: We must try to bring people closer to the need for these measures so that understanding is awakened that they not only suffer suffering, but are happy to take note of it, because it is recognized that this is the future assurance of a new government that has written the "government new" on the flags.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e7950	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e7971	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It has also happened this time again, as expected, that in the debate, when it comes to the environment, when it comes to agriculture, the Minister is always taking a position on agriculture first and only then on the environment, though... Yes, I know. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Because the speaker list is that way!]] They look – this is once a news – at the speakers. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Always!]] Perhaps you could be on your own – because of your office, you are in the government, you are the executive – put things on the head, so to speak, and start with the environment, with the comprehensive one. [[Abg. Head: After four agricultural speakers for the first time the topic environment!]] Mr Kopf can then, as an ex-environmental speaker of the ÖVP, or still environmental speakers, or hopefully still environmental spokespersons of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Head: Let me out of the game!]] – That would be, as it were, a vision for me, a request to you. But if the horse is already stowed from agriculture, it is certainly up to us to drive this horse towards environmental policy as a whole. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is our concern, and we have repeatedly made this possible, concrete and practical by means of various proposals. I give you the right, Minister: At EU level You may be more often the lonely caller, but you have what the ecologicalization is about – especially agriculture – certainly our back wind and our support. They still seem to be listening too often to officials from warehouses, from farmhouses, the fertilizer industry et cetera. I won this impression. Therefore, first of all, to the basics. I would like to talk about water, temelin and finally about food and the agency. I've already said: Agriculture – water. Minister! I think it's at least my fifth run, but I'm tired of going in this direction: We are still waiting for your regulation, which reaches the list of measures for the implementation of § 33f of the Novelle Water Law Act. I know he was supposed to go into review at the end of March. ==References====External links== The Regulation is still missing for implementation in January 2001. They have in themselves had a three-quarters period of time to compile and order these measures. In this respect, you are sumptuous. They are constantly thinking – this is the problem – but do not act in the treatment of water. I mean, that's what's been going on since 1992 at least. We also see the intersection between environmental and agricultural interests over and over again, and at this intersection, environmental and agricultural interests, you most often remain with the agricultural interests. I say it again: The regulation – a very small sample of nails – is still out of place. I don't know what it's going to include either. It may be so plainly formulated that it is not a handy instrument for groundwater restoration. [[Abg. Head: Maybe not!]] Maybe, I said. Maybe not. – Your Word in God’s ear, I must say in this case! I will, however, place on the gold scale what is really to be read in this regulation. Groundwater remediation: They know that more than 200 000 Austrians have long needed healthy, drinkable and clean drinking water again. - That's the one area. You could now address other things in the water area. They intend to reorganise the water suppliers of Austria at all. In this respect, there is a study, but they keep you under lock. I would be very interested in this study because the water supply, the water supply organisation, is also an element to operate groundwater protection. You know exactly: Large supplier, long pipes reduce the protection of groundwater on site, reduce the protection of small drinking water sources. – That once to this chapter. Secondly, Thinking, acting – Temelin. – The possibility of acting also consisted, Mr Minister, in putting the field of action as wide as possible – and we talked about it last week – and this wide-ranging of the field of action also involves NGOs. If they were better involved in the process, more information would have been made available to them, then the resistance to Temelin – including the NGOs – would certainly be closed. I hope he closes again. It's in your hand. It is also in your hand that this is not true what I have received today with the post from the Land Oberösterreich, Department of the Environment, namely a high-gloss color brochure called "Providing proof of the Temelin nuclear power plant, Interim Report 2001". [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] – Please, at this proof assurance Temelin you can see a world map where there is a section of Europe and then a small section of Upper Austria and Austria and nuclear power plants around Austria. This small section of this world map also focuses on the problem. We are within reach of Temelin – 52 kilometres is the distance from Upper Austria to Temelin, is listed here. This folding prospectus, this high-gloss prospectus, however, results in a statement on the visualization of radiation measurement values and on liability issues, but also shows crisis management, radiation alarm plan, alerting and personal protective options. – This is a defensive prospectus. We really have to face up to this defensive prospectus an offensive nuclear policy. Minister! What about the signing of the energy protocol? If the requirements of the Czech Republic are not met if the environmental impact assessment is negative if the environmental impact assessment is not carried out to the necessary extent, as we believe it is important and correct, and if the safety concept is not coherent, please how does it look with the sub-production of the energy protocol? There is a decision in Parliament that it will not be signed. I'm curious about whether the government is holding on to it. I'm very curious about whether you're talking. You once gave us the floor. You have taken it back easily in another debate. I could make the effort and pick out the discussion contribution, I'm sure of it. But, please, open your word and leave the energy protocol open! This is our last hand next to the veto against accession. Let the Energy Protocol be open, as long as a serious EIA is not presented by the Czech Republic, a serious security concept! – This is our repeated wish. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To conclude: The question of action and thinking is also evident in the field of food agency. Interestingly, you have given little thought and acted relatively quickly. You have already presented the project agency as a graphic together with your colleague's head in mid-January. They then made internal proposals, some drafts for this agency law, and it should be decided as Article 13 very quickly in the course of the budget accompanying laws. Why so fast? – Because You quickly wanted to get rid of your relatively poorly organized federal institutions, which are concentrated in Hirschstetten. They wanted to separate these agricultural institutions, and de facto that food control was practically a matter of concern, so that the two of them, together, had to come up with a common budget and a common staff plan. We congratulate you on this combination of some truly reformable institutions that have been subject to you so far, where you also want to keep your influence, with food research and control bodies that are still well organized and working well, which only suffer from financial and human thinning. It is not possible that a strong control institution is now, so to speak, a millstone of a relative – how to say? ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I know you separated it in the law: They are responsible for one area, the Minister of Social Affairs for the other. But who guarantees me that you will not influence the opposite? Who guarantees me that the two managing directors will be traded? Who guarantees me that they will be trading through the budget? Talk to Dr. Schuller von Mödling! He always said it was a question of leadership, and could only lead one. It is not possible for two managing directors to have a distributed institution. In this constellation, this will only lead to the ruin of food control in Austria. We must not afford to do that. But you're risking this ruin! Minister Chief has repeatedly said that he would very much like to have autonomous food control. I support him in this regard. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: That's why we do it!]] I would even assign to him the competences for the seed, for the plant protection products and, above all, for the feed three times, because that makes sense in the chain "from stable to table". This chain you have always conjured up. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Molterer.]] Yes, that's why you stay outside, make a chain "from stable to table", and then the whole thing is within the food sector, and the food sector is within the health resort, and above that there is a Mr. Head of State, who is just coming from the liberals, maybe later there is a health minister from the ÖVP, who then stands over. But leave agriculture out of this area as a producer! It is not possible for the producer to jump into the control role, which has also been rejected across the EU. They say again and again that at European level there is the beautiful agency. – That’s right! Such an agency, you say, we also want to have in Austria. – That’s not true! Why can't you do that? – At EU level, the Agency is under the responsibility of the Executive Board responsible for health. It is not subject to the Agriculture Directorate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Mrs. Moser! In Germany, consumer protection and agriculture are in a ministry!]] This EU agency has a scientific character, has a coordinating character. In Austria, the agency also has a control character, it is a different quality. I also see it as quite useful to combine the national agendas, which correlate in the middle federal administration with the federal authorities, but only among the outrages of control by the health resort, especially in favour of consumers, away from the control of the producer. A very simple recipe of checks and balances, already from Montesquieu, which is reflected in the American Constitution. This should also be reflected in the food sector. This would be – I conclude – for the producers, for the farmers, because then – as the AMA does – they would have external control. The AMA valued that it has external control, Billa doesn't have it. We could talk more about the big trading chains, because I would be on your side. Follow You are at least the example of the AMA, which is located with you, who are famous for having external control. Please boast of external control, give it to the health resort! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8131	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8153	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Karl Schweitzer, has previously initiated the comments of Mr Sima with the words "always the same leader". I want to correct him: Mrs Sima has apparently looked at the environmental budget since the Committee's meeting, as she has still criticised the fact that the environmental budget has fallen. Today, she really hasn't done that anymore. It has not confirmed that this is not the case, but at least only the issue is that the budget has not fallen in total, but in some detail – I think it has called it an operational budget – it has become smaller. I am therefore correcting the statements made by my colleague Karl Schweitzer. It is not always the same leader of you, Mr Sima, you have looked at the budget since the Committee and you have found what I have noted and, together with the Federal Minister, have influenced the fact that the environmental budget has even increased. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have an overall environmental budget with 6.7 billion schilling for environmental tasks, at least half a percent of the overall budget. That's worth noting. It is better taught by 400 million schillings than last year or now. I mean, this is a clear, clear signal of this federal government and this government coalition in which direction environmental policy is going in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I can already imagine where the opposition parties, especially the Social Democrats, come from. They have a slightly different access to environmental policy than we have. [[Abg. May. Sima: Thank God!]] I believe that in the past we have been able to create a situation that can be seen internationally in many environmentally relevant areas – some think: too many, I would not stress that, but with a lot of things – which can be seen internationally, but that I admit – not in all areas, which should be attested. But we are even top in many areas, whether this leads to water conservation or other areas, in international comparison. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, I also believe – and we should disagree here – that in the area of regulatory policy, in the area of regulatory measures, we have reached a limit to the loadability of standard subjects, but also a limit to the load capacity of our own equipment in public administration. We are currently discussing the burden, including the cost burden on our public budget through orderly policy, overregulations, parallelities, double-tracks and so on in the administration. This is a discussion that cannot be easily held, not a question. But this discussion is to be held! Thank God we are now – at last! – as deep down in this discussion as it has never been before. Finally, there is one, and seriously serious, discussion of how much the state is about to tear in itself, how much to take over in the tasks of the state, or vice versa: how much we are to hand over to the individual citizen, how much we are to hand over groups of citizens – or whether we have not taken too much out of their hands. This discussion is currently under way – thank God! – and it also operates in the environmental field. And I believe that we are approaching, in the environmental field, a quite reasonable "mix", an integrated approach to environmental policy, namely, on the one hand, from regulatory measures, on the other, from incentives for funding, so to speak, to initiate proper behaviour. Thirdly, there are also the voluntary instruments – keyword "EMAS certification of businesses", i.e. voluntary inclusion of environmental management into the management system of a company. In the context of all these measures, we can come to an integrated approach that will gradually enable us to take the right steps: in the regulatory field, for example, where we may have crossed, where either the norm subject suffers or also the public administration, because any regulatory measure must also be monitored and monitored. I assume that the opposition's criticism has also been aimed at: However, in the case of environmental policy budgets, environmental protection cannot be the top objective, so to speak, of bruising this budget in the internal area of management, but this budget is, please, already to use it to create incentives for ecological behaviour, and also to put in place measures that directly take place, but not only for the control and management of environmental protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If your criticism, Mrs Sima, has taken place there, I am delighted about it. I am glad to see a shift in this direction – in addition to increasing the budget – in two respects: the increase in the budget and the proper allocation of budget resources, namely for environmental policy measures, but not only for control and administration. Federal Minister! I believe that we from the government coalition of ÖVP and FPÖ are on the right track with this integrated environmental policy approach – and we should therefore remain on this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8224	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Sima in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8249	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Kopf said in his speech that I had only looked at the environmental budget after the Committee meeting. - That's not right! Of course, I have already looked at the budget, in detail, before the Committee meeting. [[Abg. Head: You turned the leaf around at most!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Kopf has also said that I would have said in the Committee on the Environment that the budget has fallen. In fact, I said – and you obviously did not understand this – that the proportion of the environmental budget made available by the federal government has fallen because it is facing a higher contribution from the Water Economic and Old Load Rehabilitation Fund. But I didn't mention this anymore because I just thought you wouldn't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8322	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Molterer. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8343	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps, Mrs Moser, we can agree that you are putting Mr Pirklhuber on the head so to speak; he has also spoken before you. As far as the environment is concerned, I should like to say clearly, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a total of more than 6.6 billion schilling available for this budget chapter. So this means increasing – and this, please, at a time when, as you know, we do not have to impose a number of savings measures, precisely because of the new budget strategy of this federal government. You can also see clearly how important this federal government attaches to this very, very central political strategy in terms of environmental orientation. It is logical that this means, Mrs Sima – and that is my task – that this budget is an efficient way of keeping home. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But since, ladies and gentlemen, it may already be that the necessary emphasis is on the fact that not every department in my home has the same or even more resources available than it used to be. Yes, I understand wishes – but it is my job to set political priorities, and I feel that such a focus is fully committed. This means that, with this budget, we can, of course, make available resources for the creation of national parks, even well-equipped for them, if, for example, in an Austrian federal state, specifically in Styria, with regard to the creation of the National Park Gesäuse, which should take on a positive development, and I very much hope that such a one will actually occur. With this budget, we have also covered a number of important environmental policies, including the entire international work – an important perspective, especially environmental policy is becoming international. Further: With this budget, however, we can also make the necessary resources available in relation to the urban water economy. However, I have never made a secret of the fact that we in the urban water industry will have to change the conditions of funding, yes, because the question of both economic and environmental efficiency is to be asked. This is why a study has also been commissioned, which has already been mentioned here. This study will not be held back, as Mrs Moser said, but it will be completed. I assume that you are interested in this study, in a study on which – I can assure you – is being intensively worked, so that it will then come to the National Council for a report. We also have more funds available in the field of old-age rehabilitation; we can progress very, very actively in the replacement operations. You know how important this is for many regions concerned. As far as operational environmental protection is concerned, we can gradually develop in the direction we are working together, namely the perspective set out by the Kyoto Forum of 1.25 billion schilling. For radiation protection, we also have the corresponding financial basis – and thanks to a decision of this House also in this year extra funds. That means: From the budgetary point of view, this is a good budget, which also makes it possible to set the right priorities for the environment. I would also like to comment on four points raised here. First: I think it is very important that we move forward at European and Austrian level in the area of sustainability strategy. Mr Schweitzer, I accept your offer gratefully. We will, as it were, march into the duet and convince those who may not yet be so convinced that the long-term sustainability strategy is a key issue in the field of environmental tax policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As far as Kyoto is concerned: I am as disappointed as you, ladies and gentlemen, about the behaviour of the new government of the United States, in particular on Mr Bush's decision. I think that his decision is bad, but it is the absolutely false signal, because that ultimately means nothing but a threat to our future development! Ladies and gentlemen! We must do everything we can to combat climate change, globally: in the European institutions, but also in terms of national efforts. This is why last weekend, in the circle of the EU Environment Ministers, we discussed a strategy on this subject intensively. An EU delegation is currently on its way to Washington, as is one to Moscow and Beijing. There will also be contacts with Iran with Group G 77. In the near future, we expect a new discussion paper from the Dutch Minister, who is the President of the Conference. We have also noted that the European Union has the very clear intention of ratifying the Kyoto Protocol. As regards temelin: Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to you for explaining in this debate last week that the "Melker Agreement" is a great opportunity – and we are doing everything we can to fulfill this "Melker Agreement". But do you know what may be different from us, Mrs Sima? – Not everything I do – I have already told you several times – takes place in the public, because I believe that press services – whether from the APA or from parties – are not the right instrument to achieve a political goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is quite possible that I have a little less photos on the subject of Temelin in some newspapers, but the difference between us, ladies and gentlemen, is that, for example, last week with the Czech Foreign Minister Kavan, I did not only discuss the further procedure with Temelin, but also fixed it. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to repeat this further procedure for you, Madam President: ==References== The declaration of environmental impact of the Czech authorities will be published in April. After that there is a 30-day opportunity to comment on this EIA declaration, and it is expected to be on 8 or 9 June. This year, in Austria, we are giving a public hearing on the subject of EIA, and we are preparing the details with all those involved. – I have also been in contact with NGOs precisely to inform them of these facts and to invite them to continue to participate positively in this process. And you know why? – Because we did not do any more hardliners in the Czech Republic than question the milking process. The only real chance from my point of view to shape the right direction is to work actively in this process. I therefore expect active cooperation from all parties involved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Last sentence on Temelin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a lip commitment, but my deep conviction: Finally, an opportunity in the interests of people's safety is that we do not leave the common strategy in Austria. Mrs Moser! In this sense, I would like to say again that this environmental chapter, contrary to some public statements, is not closed. To the Food Agency: We clearly agree that it is right to make the chain of control from the field to the shop counter efficient. But we are also of one opinion, so I hope that this will only make sense in the long term if we define quality and control throughout. And if that is the case, then it is only logical to put together those control devices we have in the direction of process-oriented control. I am opposed to – and I say quite openly to you – this incontrovertible argument that suddenly only the AMA is a good organization, but other organisations, which are also subject to the Ministry of Agriculture, are bad. This is a downgrading of the work of employees, who, of course, have seen their only task in fulfilling laws over the past decades. You can also see this – I have said this several times – that there are ads that have been made from my area, that they are numerous, and they have also led to convictions. That is why I simply do not allow the fact that only because of the fact that organisational units are in my area of responsibility, you disqualify employees! These employees did not deserve this, Mrs Moser! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] They will have the opportunity to present objections, ideas and suggestions in relation to the Food Safety Agency in Austria, in the course of the review. That is why we went into the review and, of course, I am willing to take some suggestions. But I am not going to let any facilities under the Ministry of Agriculture talk bad because they are under the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8540	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8565	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Molterer, you said in your first statement: Others would be proud if they had these achievements in the agricultural sector in Austria. – I give you some right, but only what big businesses are going to do; and I also tell you why. [[Call the ÖVP: That's wrong!]] Despite the dramatic conditions in agriculture, there is a mogel budget for 2002 for large and intensive farms, according to the motto: "Wash or soft!" It has never been as necessary, Mr Federal Minister, to provide more budget resources for rural areas, especially in this situation, for small farmers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! The introduction of a base amount in this area, which we have repeatedly called for in the past budgets, requires billions of schilling. – Three times, Minister Molterer, you have promised to introduce a base amount. However, there are no financial resources in the State budget for 2001. There are two options now. Within the existing 2.8 billion schillings, co-financed by the EU with 578 million schillings, there could be re-transitions, more towards disadvantaged farmers or, as it were, future budget resources could be preferred to this year. [[Abg. Auer: A year too late!]] It is up to you, Mr Federal Minister, to introduce this base amount now, because those who help quickly help twice – and you should know that too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You only need to agree to the budget! It's in there!]] Federal Minister! An evaluation of the Bundesanstalt für Miningernfragen regarding the direct payments of the year 1999 has shown that 1 per cent of the farms – and precisely the largest – account for 10 per cent of the funding, an average of 847 488 S per holding. 41.9 percent of businesses, the smallest, have to share 9.7 percent of funding! – By the way, the average is 22 345 S per operation. Federal Minister! A large market fruit holding only receives more support than the total income of a organic farm. Agricultural support is subject to perverted logic: The larger an agricultural holding in Austria, the more support it receives, however, regardless of its services for society, nature or the environment, regardless of whether genetic engineering or antibiotics are used there or the groundwater is heavily burdened. [[Call the ÖVP: You have no idea!]] The result is that in Austria, and since 1995, the number of agricultural and forestry farms has fallen by a total of 9 percent. Mr. Federal Minister! It is really incomprehensible that, at a time when one meat scandal follows the other, organic farmers are neglected! Under 93 support measures for agriculture, the subject of organic farming is only four times; special benefits for organic farmers are not foreseen. The fact is: Reduction of the funding from 14 to 11 million schillings, and this is very true of the organic farmers. Federal Minister! The current disastrous situation of hundreds of thousands of cattle, pigs and sheep having to be destroyed is the result of misconception for farmers, the result of lack of control in feed, is the lack of successful animal husbandry and the unfair distribution of funding. Federal Minister! Change your budget system in the field of support so that this "farmer's death" does not continue! Support the many important miners and small businesses that are essential for tourism and landscape care! Promote the labour force and take measures to ensure that appropriate breeding is possible and healthy products can be placed on the market for consumers!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8666	We are now coming to two actual corrections, and I should like to draw attention to the fact that the subject of actual corrections cannot be that when it comes to opinions, opinions, political assessments, but that it is merely facts. – I ask you to pay attention to this! First of all, Mrs Dr. Moser has spoken about an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8695	Mr President. Mr. Minister! In fact, I would like to correct the following statement: Minister Mag. Molterer, you have formulated that I would badly qualify your employees and their work because they are subordinated to you as a Minister of Agriculture. – This is really not the case! I have formulated: The employees in the Federal Agricultural Organisations are relatively poorly organized – but in no context has it been said that they are federal institutions of the Ministry of Agriculture! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But this is a speech!]] This is an internal question of organisation; 38 court councils are in charge of 430 employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8741	The next time, I think, I will have to present what is the subject of actual corrections. Next actual correction: Mr Schultes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8772	Mr President. I correct the claim made by Mrs Bauer that compensation payments to farms would be made independently. It is true that according to the environmental programme, compensation is made according to hectares and size and therefore after actual performance and that this has nothing to do with whether a farm is large or small, but only with what it is doing.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8808	The next speaker is Mr Wenitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8829	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wimmer, Mrs Bauer: It is rather terrifying for me to know how little you know about the agricultural policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I have to give my previous speaker the right to: In Austria, in contrast to other countries of the European Union, in contrast to many other countries, which Mr Pirklhuber is always trying to present here as a model for Austria, it is that money from the ÖPUL programme is bound to benefits. Every farmer, every participant in this public service program, who does something, is entitled to some premiums – and this should be the case in the future. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: You didn't understand me! I'm sorry to tell you!]] Mrs Bauer! Not the Austrian agricultural policy, but the European agricultural policy has failed. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Pirklhuber, you mentioned England and France here again and more or less tried to give these countries to Minister Molterer or us from the government coalition as an example. Do you even know what's going on in England in the agricultural field? Do you have any idea what's happening in England right now? Do you not know that the national emergency has already been declared there? Don't you know what's going on there? – Beginnings of roadblocks, burning piles, warning signs, police controls up to absolutely orphaned livestock markets: That's England! And this is what you want to set as an example to our farmers in Austria?- Oh, my God! – You have no idea, Mr Pirklhuber! I'm sorry, but that's the truth! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in England, the courts in the middle of the mountain range are 150 hectares tall! In the middle of the mountain: 150 acres of farms! In the plains, farms currently dominate with a size of 1,500 hectares! This is English agricultural policy, which is currently European agricultural policy. - That's where we have to put the lever! I can only say: The European agricultural policy should be a bond with the Austrian agricultural policy, and there could also be a little progress here at European level. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In England and France, in the European Union, agricultural groups currently dominate, international corporations dominate, while the peasantry is being reduced more or less there. Again to England: In the last five years alone, the net agricultural income in the UK has fallen by up to 70 percent! Do you know what that means? – 70 percent loss of income for the English farmers! Ladies and gentlemen! For the future, the course must be set in the direction of creating a rethinking process at European level. That is why, Mr Pirklhuber, you should defend the Austrian agricultural policy at European level in the future – but not attack it! Do you understand me?- Oh, my God! This would also have an exemplary effect, ladies and gentlemen, too. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! In times of foot-and-mouth disease, in times of the cow-whales – the chicken fever is almost already lurking in front of our doorstep – in times of a WTO and a common agricultural policy, of course, small Austrian farmers are rising their goose skin. In view of the fact that everything is happening all around this, this must not be surprising! In a phase, Mr Pirklhuber, in which we in Austria must have a reorganisation of the federal budget – that is not a voluntary matter, what our government has to do about this – we all know that, of course, it is very difficult for every single resort here in Austria – whether this is agriculture, the environment, transport, infrastructure and so on – to achieve even higher funding from the federal budget; that is clear. The fact that we, Minister Molterer, cannot, of course, expect more funds from the Federal Government in the near future is clear to us. This situation has engrossed us by the then Minister of Finance and the current colleague Edlinger, precisely through his financial policy of recent years, so that there is nothing but a great financial room for us. [[Abg. Edellinger: To sapperlot!]] Austria has been a member of the European Union for six years, but we still have harder production requirements, and in some cases there are still higher operating resources prices. I am therefore saying: We must put the lever on it to strengthen the competitiveness of our farmers in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Minister! Austria has been spared from the diseases in recent months or years thanks – not least thanks to an ecologically oriented agricultural policy. However, the Austrian farmers still have financial losses. You know now: The sales market has also worsened for Austrian products. I would therefore ask you, Minister, in the future, to try to give Austria's farmers a better aid. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! Our farmers would do really well – especially the friends of social democracy are asked: The Chamber of Workers, consumer advice and so on – if you would help to rethink the consumer, in the future Austrian quality products from Austrian farmers will find better sales. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: As long as the farmers act like this, that won't be real!]] Once again, Mr Pirklhuber: If the consumer is not involved and the sales are not given for organic products, then the world's highest subsidies will not be able to save organic farmers in Austria in the long run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8959	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e8994	Mr. Colleague, so that your "poor soul" has peace: I am not referring to the Landesratspension, but I have been counted in the ASVG scheme five years from my time in the Tyrolean state government. - Please! [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After this short "trip" I would like to talk about some very central environmental issues, topics that seem to me to be very relevant to the progress in Austria. First of all, the climate strategy. I would like to address this once again, although it has already been mentioned here a few times. Minister! It hurts every environmental authority/environmental authority if only half of the money even designated by your resort is available as necessary in order to be able to take the necessary measures to implement the Kyoto target. The United States' attitude – and this has already been emphasized by a number of previous speakers, including the government parties – is a disaster for the world climate! [[It is in favour of the Greens and the Liberals, as well as of representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, this attitude cannot and should not prevent us in Europe from dealing with the issue of climate change. We all share the responsibility for the global climate, and we have this responsibility – whether or not someone else is doing it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why, Mr Federal Minister, I call on you not to starve at this area in the cold, but to increase efforts in this area and to implement effective measures. When it comes to effective measures, Minister of State, we are in the area of transport. It is necessary to invest in measures in the transport sector – and that is to say, the shift from transport to public transport. These are investment programmes that are both ecologically and economically interesting. This transport strategy must begin! Accompanied by this, clear Kyoto objectives would be integrated into the spatial planning, for example to stop the shopping center madness on the green meadow, threaten nature and environmental protection, but in parallel starved the inner cities and the inner supply. That is where the countries are required, and I believe that it would be a good thing if there were a coordinated working group on this subject at the federal level, as well as Mr Schweitzer mentioned this. In the Kyoto Strategy, we also find indications of economically meaningful measures to preserve small and medium-sized enterprises, and I ask you to ensure that they are coordinated accordingly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The countries – we both know – do nothing of their own. [[Abg. Auer: Have you done nothing as a councillor?]] – I was not responsible for spatial planning, I would have liked to have been! – I think they wait a little for it because they do much easier to do themselves against the great, powerful in their own country if they get a backup from the side of the federal government. If we are with the countries, then we are necessarily talking about another major deficit in the field of nature conservation, namely the lack of implementation of EU directives, for example the Natura 2000 Directive, by the federal states. [[Abg. Auer: The procedure has partly been a prelude! You've gone over the heads! It's been a cold expropriation!]] They're talking about this as cold expropriation. [[Abg. Auer: Do you own a plot in such an area? That's where the blind talk about the color!]] I think nature conservation is a moral obligation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The obligation expressed in the old sentence is that we also have to pass on the world that we can use or believe to our inns and heirs, and we still have to do so! [[Abg. Hornek: But there is Austria excellent!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: "Let the earth subdue you!"]] And there is no free right to nature conservation either. There is an obligation of ownership, especially in the field of nature conservation. [[Abg. Auer: There someone can very easily demand if he is not affected himself!]] For example, if one has a beautiful area with property rights, there is an obligation to take into account its protection in its uses. It must not be defined as the freedom of ownership to destroy what has been taken over by one's mothers and fathers! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hornek: Every farmer would be crazy if he did! They're not crazy farmers!]] Federal Minister! We also need a uniform procedure in the sense that the countries have to be taken into account, because if infringement proceedings occur – and we know that – then the Federation is called upon to act as agents. I would therefore like to see consistent action and also consistent implementation. I think that this is more necessary for the economic and, above all, ecologically. There are enough infringement procedures which are already in progress; eight preliminary procedures and six procedures are in the first stage and seven in the second. That doesn't have to be in an environmental model country. Let me also address the Alpine Convention, Federal Minister. I would be very glad if you could tell me where the resources for the implementation of the Alpine Convention are located in the environmental budget. I welcome the broad four-party consensus on ratification and the implementation of the Alpine Convention, and I would like to have a first interim report on where these funds are located and what exactly is planned for this year's activities. I believe that this would be an interesting thing for all the members of the Committee who have carried this request together. The Alpine Convention is one of the most promising international instruments in environmental protection, but one has to do something about it. Environmental protection never happens by itself! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One point in a short time: As far as the Danube area is concerned – and therefore we are on another subject of nature conservation – I have been able to find a response to your colleague's question that there are serious and billionaires who plan to further deepen the solstice, far beyond the ecologically necessary extent, in the east of Vienna. Federal Minister! I appeal to you – in the name of many who are also concerned about the natural treasure on the Danube: Take a distance from this – and specifically from this – fluid building project! A better development needs to be developed here, which first of all also meets the guidelines – in addition, we do not need a depth of 3,20 meters throughout the year, which is different – and at the same time preserves the Danube Nature Area. This is a treasure, because the rivers, the water veins in our country are not to be underestimated in their importance for landscape and nature, but also for man. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Two more sets of waste: After the in-force step of the packaging regulation, the trend towards discarding and disappearance of the multi-way links is reinforced. That's a sad balance. I believe that the contribution of the old-age recovery contribution only favours waste burning on one side and thus creates a process monopoly is one of the most negative developments. Process monopolies have slowed developments and have still negatively affected new technical and environmental ways. Federal Minister! Think about it and bring in a new novel! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e9172	The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e9194	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to devote myself exclusively to the chapter on agriculture, but I can't stand the speeches of my predecessor on nature conservation. Dear colleague! I am also in favour of the implementation of nature conservation and the Natura 2000 programme. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes?]] But with regard to the way in which this implementation was carried out, I would recommend that you speak to those 230 family-owned owners in my community who were not asked when a Natura 2000 area was covered. Or talk to the 95 percent of the owners of commercial businesses, which one did not ask for, or to the municipal representation that one lied about, because one claimed there was no under-protection position here. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But that's why you can't get rid of it!]] If there is to be a sense of nature conservation, ladies and gentlemen, then it must be implemented in agreement with those concerned so that the related measures can also be carried out. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] That's what you should know: Where will a bird protection area make sense? – Where there are protective birds! Who has protected nature in these areas so far? – The officials of the department or those concerned? Who has protected nature there so far, so that the area is now so valuable? – I agree with you when it comes to protecting nature where it makes sense, but not with dictatorial and eastern methods, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] To the chapter on agriculture itself: Ladies and gentlemen! This chapter 60 of the Federal Proposal for the coming year, which we are discussing today, is – and that is undisputed – not a reason for a joyful mood, but also no reason for resignation. It is a serious budget approach that allows the ever-increasing shift in the base amount for mountain areas and less favoured areas. This has also been mentioned positively by the opposition. It allows for this year's account payment and for next year's actual financing. This budget also allows for an improved approach under the OPUL-2000 programme. However, I say, as a nobleman, that this programme is not very nobler-friendly. This budget also offers the opportunity to give more to organic farmers and to control the associations a little less. As otherwise debureaucratisation will always be adjudicated, I assume that this will result in undivided consent, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This 2002 budget allows for the continuation of sustainable, environmentally oriented agriculture. And once again it's repeated: In the EU, 85 percent is made available for market organisation and only 15 percent for rural development from budget resources. In Austria, on the other hand, 60 percent of the budget for rural development and 40 percent for the market order are spent – and this is extremely positive. Here again, the European Union could take an example of a successful agricultural policy of a Willi Molterer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also say quite openly: I see the great concern of agriculture, rural areas, not in the budget, but in dealing with problems such as BSE and foot-and-mouth disease. These questions have not yet been resolved. They could already become a budget problem this year, not just next year! An important question for the future is also Austrian agriculture: How will the WTO negotiations be fought and concluded? What will the animal welfare conditions look like in the future? Everyone's talking about animal welfare. – Bravo, I say, but has anyone ever thought about the farmers in view of these regulations? Is there any protection here, too? "Back to the dung fork," to the strongest work, that's a little too little for me! Everyone is talking about nature, and no one wants to walk there, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also have no understanding that the solution to the operating budget question is still open. It has always been promised to us, but it has not yet been fully implemented. As far as plant protection is concerned, adjustments have been made – and this is commendable –. The question of the animal health service, veterinary provisions, the rules on medicinal products is still open. As far as the approval rules for machinery are concerned, this is also a question that has to do with competition. The bureaucracy is also taking a little overhand in agriculture. It will become more and more controlled – for the wishes of you should be much more controlled! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] I also recognise controls where they make sense, but not if only for the sake of control is controlled. Do you know who the people who pay for it are? – The small-scale farms! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Go!]] They won't do these things anymore in the future! They won't be allowed to please these horrors in the long run! This is more likely to result in the death of the small farmers, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Even in football it is too little if everyone only play referees and no player is present! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Why? Why...?]] This will, at most, strengthen the migration! The question of economic power in the rural sector is also a question that will have to do with the migration of agriculture. Every job that can remain in agriculture and is secure causes three additional employees in the field, ladies and gentlemen. If agriculture is required to protect water, soil and air – yes, I will, of course! – but then you also have to be willing to pay for tougher conditions. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: We do that all the time!]] Mrs Sima expressed great concern in a question concerning the hormone and antibiotics taxation of Austrian groundwater. – Yes, I did! In this context, however, I would be interested in: If in Austria 25 billion schilling is spent on medicines in the human field, where are the excretions to come? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Hornek: Where are they going?]] It is always proclaimed that the sewage sludge should be handled by the farmers as a waste dump in length! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: That's the problem anyway!]] In this context, the question should already be asked whether it is being done exactly as it is called for by a natural agriculture. – You shouldn't do things that easy. Ladies and gentlemen! If one has heard the statements of the opposition today, then one becomes clear: Although some are not solved, it is a blessing for Austrian farmers that the Minister is called "Molder" and that the government that operates the agricultural policy consists of these two parties!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e9380	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e9401	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Some things have already been said to Temelin today, but as an Upper Austrian MP, I am still not going to miss out on a little critical with Temelin and the whole environment, nor on where the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" can be read as a title again today: 'Destruction No. 16'. I believe that everyone who once had to do with the construction of plants knows that sampling plants are necessary to test the plants and to find out where they are vulnerable, in order to enable and guarantee non-stop normal operation in the future. The Czech Atomic Safety Authority thus refers to all the problems encountered – as said: Disorder number 16! - as normal. However, I believe that the security authority is looking beyond the fact that with each of these reported incidents, the fears of the people who already exist to a very high degree are even further strengthened. Federal Minister! You have received a reply from you in your reply to the question. March to Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig of the Greens points out that three concrete results have been achieved in connection with the Milk Agreement, two of which seem to me to be very concrete. According to your reply, the Czech Republic has given Austria the opportunity to build a measuring station in the immediate vicinity of the Temelin nuclear power plant. I think that is a good and very concrete measure. As a second result, which I also consider to be relatively concrete, an agreement on early and comprehensive information on all relevant events has been reached. The question is only to what extent this agreement is actually being observed. I am more and more concerned about the third and, in fact, most important point, the environmental impact assessment. In your answer to the question from the 15th century. On 13 March you referred to a joint declaration with Foreign Minister Kavan, which you made on 13 March. In February, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to certain dangerous substances. I myself have been able to read very little about this, and I wonder why this joint statement has not been printed in this reply. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer:... in the APA!]] There was not much to learn about the APA. In any case, the answer to this question could have been sent to the NGOs as a rather official paper and thus probably answered a lot of open questions. My concrete questions to You are now: It is always muttered, also from diplomatic circles, that the Federal Government would have already agreed to the chapter Energy in connection with the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union, which would mean that the Czech Republic’s energy chapter could be considered to be cut off. Secondly, What actually happens to nuclear imports from so-called third countries? I should like to remind you that in November we adopted a request from Federal Minister Bartenstein, even a four-party request, here in the House, so that he can implement it as soon as possible. I haven't found a line about it to this day. Thirdly, Federal Minister! What happens to the talks with Germany now? I once suggested to perhaps talk to German government members that at least the E.ON should not be a buyer of electricity from Temelin in the future. This would remove the economic basis of this power plant. As far as the Brussels level is concerned, my specific question to you is: What really is going on with the operation of environmental liability insurance, especially for nuclear power plants? If such a one were introduced, this would also be an essential contribution to the cost truthfulness. Under such circumstances, many nuclear power plants would probably no longer be expected. I believe that there is a real need for action here – not only in terms of implementation, but also in the area of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e9439	The next speaker is Mr Hornegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e9460	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the agricultural budget, a brief comment on the opposition – and I refer to the first speaker on this budget chapter, Mr Wimmer: It is quite understandable, as Mr Schwarzenberger has already said, that when he receives the documents so late and has not read through, he makes such mistakes at the speaker's desk and only shows the negative. At a time when the agricultural policy is in such a crisis because of BSE, foot-and-mouth disease, hormone scandal in pig farming, and lastly because of the chicken plague, as my colleague Wenitsch has said, one could get the goose's skin as well! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Nevertheless, the system of European agricultural policy needs to be further developed and urgently reformed in the light of the enormous tax resources that are spent on it. I am of the opinion of Mr Pirklhuber, when he points out that it is wrong – and in this respect we will all have to work out a common approach – and we must not continue to be in a position that 20 per cent of industrial agriculture will benefit 80 per cent of the funding, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Minister has today referred to the supercharge. I would like to take a very brief look at this and draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that, if the super levy is already to be lifted, it would be useful not to deliver it to the EU at least, but to use it for crisis management in its own country. Minister! I call on you to open negotiations in the sense of the Austrian farmers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We must jointly ensure that the large pot of agricultural support is more fairly distributed in the interests of our farmers, taxpayers and consumers. It has already been mentioned today: EU agricultural policy is at the end. Let me give you an example: In England one is now dealing with the cloning of sheep, and it succeeds. But it is not possible to control the foot-and-mouth disease! Commissioner Fischler, according to yesterday's press release – and this has already been said on this speaker's desk – with his Latin in the end. I would like to remind Mr Fischler that he should think about his roots and re-implement Austrian agricultural policy. In the meantime, we in this coalition are stating how to do it better! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Zweytick.]] Mr Schwarzenberger, I would just like to draw your attention to one point: With intercessions in the church and with farmers' federal meat actions – which are none – we will certainly not cope with this crisis! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Together, we must continue to implement the concept of alternative agriculture aimed at ecological management, small-structured farms and quality rather than mass production and genetic engineering. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the case of direct aid, more ecological criteria should also be applied in addition to a levelling according to the size of the holding. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] We must be a model for the whole EU and the candidate countries with our agricultural policy in Austria! [[Abg. Edlinger: Make an application! We agree!]] At the time, Mr Schröder had us judge that Austria had to leave its shilling farm. [[Abg. Edlinger: Make a request! We agree!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni:... Persevere Landesrat Achatz!]] – Mr Schröder will also have to rethink with his green minister! Ladies and gentlemen! All your negative statements in spite of them: For us, the past does not count, but the present. [[Abg. Edlinger: Make a request!]] But above all, the active design of the future applies to our efforts. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Make an application! We support him!]] Minister! Together we will shape the Austrian agricultural policy in such a way that we become a model in Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e9606	The next speaker is Mr Brix. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e9627	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! At the moment I was a little irritated when I heard my previous speaker, Mr Hornegger. I do not see any too substantial financial changes in this budget, because the agricultural budget has remained the same for the year 2002. I see changes only in the way that we deal with this budget. But the responsible side, namely the ÖVP Group with its minister, has never made too many thoughts about this, like the farmer, who does not belong to a special scale – so that you do not ask again: [[Abg. Hornek: What is "large", and what is "small"?]] What do you mean, "big"? – with his money, because the funding for the large farmers in particular is still included in this budget. [[Abg. Hornek: The chief is a great farmer! The head takes most of the funding!]] High house! This will probably be my last speech here today before I return to my home district as District President, because to the difference of the liberals we also stand for what we are running for, because we are keeping our promises to the voters. [[Congratulations and bravo noise at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Very right!]] When I think about the freedom woman – what's her name? Haider?, no. Partik-Pablé; according to the posters, it is not known exactly – "Haider-Partik-Pablé" for the Vienna municipal council and now says she remains here anyway, or that Mr. District President-Candidat has run for Count in the Danube City and is still staying here yet or that the officer, Mr. MP Jung, is a top candidate for the 23rd. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: We need them here!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: They have the minimum size for Parliament! They can stay there!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You fit well there anyway! Your sounds, your language!]] I am glad, Mrs Partik-Pablé, that I can work again for Simmeringer women and men, but above all for Simmeringer vegetable farmers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! With all the criticisms, I have always been particularly pleased that you have stood up to your profession and that your honest effort was there to stand up for your profession. I count it very much on you personally, because I know what you can do. [[Abg. Hornek: It wasn't bad!]] That is why I ask you to look away from the great support that exists not only in Marchfeld and in the Hausruckviertel or elsewhere, but also to take seriously the concerns of Simmeringer and Wiener vegetable farmers. We lack, for example, the promotion of heating costs. [[Abg. Neudeck: That's what you're saying?]] [[Abg. Hornek: But that is not in agreement with Kyoto!]] You know exactly what problems the labour marketers have. The labour market gardeners have the problem of having a different time term for workers than those in agriculture. Here, too, I ask you to work there to help these farmers. Especially in today's times when agriculture is shaken by various environmental crises – whether BSE, foot-and-mouth disease or much else – it is very, very valuable that we not only grow ecological, proper and pure vegetables, but that we have a big city like Vienna, which supplies Austria with fresh vegetables to more than 50 percent. This is the performance of those women and men in Kagran, Simmering, Kaiserebersdorf, Albern and like all these rural districts and their catastrophic communities. Therefore, they also need your support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: (to the bank knocking) Very good! That's all right!]] High house! Federal Minister! I hope I don't have to be with you soon with my Simmeringer farmers because they need more support, but I'll charge you so that you don't abandon these vegetable gardeners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e9850	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e9871	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vorsprecher and also Mr Wimmer, it is almost adventurous to note that this Minister has nothing left for the miners and the rural areas. If you look at the budget, you can see that this year a billion schilling is more for mining and rural areas, and the introduction of the base amount, Mr Wimmer, seems to have gone by. [[Abg. Wimmer: What's going on with such a farmer? What do your farmers get in Upper Austria?]] – I will tell you exactly in a private conversation, because I know my farmers, I have to do with them, and I also know what they get in support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now to the chapter on the environment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Full employment and no new debt is the clear objective of our policy. The Environmental Chapter in the 2002 Federal Preview is in line with this objective with a particular focus on the sustainable improvement of the environmental situation in Austria. Environmental expenditure is increasing by 8 percent in 2002 compared to last year. That's 482.1 million y. Improvements in environmental policy are particularly encouraging. In this area we have more than 24 million y at our disposal. This will ensure jobs and create new ones. This, in turn, contributes to full employment. Ladies and gentlemen! Environmental protection is part of the future security of our families and our children. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] In this context, priority should also be given to operational environmental promotion: Climate protection within the meaning of the Kyoto Convention and increasing energy efficiency. Mr Federal Minister, here's a request: We've taken the press that America is trying to get out of the Kyoto process. Please, make sure, especially in the European Union, that America remains in the Kyoto process. There is also a gratifying development in the area of the National Parks. For example, the Kalkalpen National Park has been since the 1st century. In January 2001, 18 000 hectares were expanded. With a federal funding of 50 percent, this means that there is almost a size in which a harmonious relationship between active nature conservation policy and conservation of agriculture, land culture and economic protection of this rural region is ensured. The recognition of the Kalkalpen National Park by the World Nature Conservation Union is the well-deserved appreciation of our consistent commitment to this precious habitat. The Federal Government provides 2.32 million ye for this. Federal Minister! In this context, I am particularly concerned that there will be no mention of the corresponding promotion of the actively managed pastures. A financing framework of 3.7 billion Schilling for the area of urban water management is being established on the basis of the accumulated annuities grants. This will make important investments, provide economic impetus and secure jobs. In addition to the comprehensive connection of urban areas to the Channel Network, the development of the Channel Network in rural areas is so advanced that in Austria more than 80 percent of households dispose of their waste water to the public sewer network. With regard to the Austrian activities under the LIFE nature conservation programme of the European Union, the approval of four new projects on Lech, Mur, Bodensee and Dobratsch is particularly pleasing, as is the realization of the joint projects Unterer Inn with Auen between Upper Austria and Bavaria. In contrast to these contributions to the protection of habitats, however, the situation on the extremely sensitive topic of nuclear power, in particular temelin, is threatening. Welcome was the four-party union in this high house. Austria stands for the agreements made under the Milker Agreement, but the alarmingly high number of incidents since the start of the test operation – 16 incidents in the Temelin AKW – are enough. We cannot simply go to the agenda here. Only the highest standards can be accepted. Temelin must not become a second Chernobyl at our border. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Czech Government's Declaration on Environmental Impact and Safety, which took place on 10 June, was published in the Official Journal of the Czech Republic. We will therefore be persecuted with special vigilance on April. In the interests of our families and children, safety is at the highest and irrevocable place. A global environmental impact assessment must be carried out in accordance with the European Union Directives. This also means the involvement of the public and the citizens of the neighbouring regions, in particular Upper and Lower Austria, in this process. Hiebei is also important to maintain a common Austrian position. All the partners involved must work together constructively and must not, by means of individual over-seated actions, endanger the work to date.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e9928	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to draw your attention to the need to interrupt at 3 p.m. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e9949	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the rising global energy needs of fossil energy sources and the existing climate problems, alternative approaches are needed – and more than ever. The repeated excitement associated with rising fuel and oil prices also gives a prelude to the time when fossil energy sources are becoming scarce. That is why it is not only the task of national policies, but also of those at EU level, and finally of global policy, to initiate the transition from the oil age to the age of renewable energy. The use of renewable energies has a great future, and nature has provided us with great resources, such as the wind in my residential area. As a result, the wind energy, the wind farms, is predicted to be a great future. A study says that wind farms could soon guarantee a large part of the power supply. Could be! It must therefore be our concern, Minister of State, to invest more strongly here. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The Zurndorfers have resisted first!]] - You're right, but they still recognized it. However, this contribution can only be a first step and can no longer be measured by the enormous potential for the future of this energy source. This is all the more so than you have to bear in mind that the environment can also mean a potential future labour market, but only with appropriate funding. Investments in the environment are therefore not only particularly profitable because they raise the quality of life of the population, but also because they open up new opportunities and opportunities for our young people to take advantage of jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A particularly encouraging example of the extraordinary importance of renewable energy is that in 1999 something was successful, which none would have thought possible: More wind power was installed around the world than new nuclear power plants went on the grid. This example shows how important alternative energies are, and this is to be reinforced in the future. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The development in Austria has also not stopped. I can tell you that more wind energy projects have already been submitted throughout Austria than expected. In September 2000, the 100th wind power plant was already connected to the grid. Interestingly, it is mostly private operators and smaller communities that show interest in wind energy. However, they have not made it easy in their commitment, for example, the realization of the Zurndorf wind farm in my district has cost years of persuasion. I personally know how Zurndorf's mayor Suchy fought until this wind farm was finally realized.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e9987	Mrs. Colleague, it's 3 p.m. Do you want to interrupt the speech and continue afterwards, or do you want to finish it now? [[Abg. Pepper: One more sentence!]] Make a sentence and finish. [[Abg. Pepper: Yes!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10027	Federal Minister! You're required to do more here. The SPÖ will be actively and offensively committed to this and will support you wherever possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10057	I am now interrupting the negotiations on the Agriculture Budget Group, Advisory Group VIII, for the purpose of holding a short debate. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10078	The short debate concerns the request of the honourable Member. Lunacek, the Justice Committee for Reporting on Requests 10/A concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code, has a period of time until 9. ==References== We have a debate on this and will then vote on the request. I go into the debate and note that the applicant has a speaking time of 10 minutes and that no other speaker can speak for longer than 5 minutes. In this sense, Mrs Lunacek is given the floor with a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10111	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the most important concepts of the blue-black government last year was "Speed kills", which Mr. Klubobmann Khol has repeatedly called us. We have found in recent days that this has unfortunately often gone wrong – see ambulance charges, see accident pensions – so that They shouldn't have acted so fast everywhere. But there are also some areas – one of which we are now dealing with – where it would be unpleasant if something went on, although Austria is a final light in this regard. It is a specific question of human rights that you know that if you reject our request from the beginning of the legislative period, it would also be quite an uproar internationally. That's why you're doing it. You prefer nothing, so you do not try to be as fast as possible in this area, but as slow as possible. I have the impression that the government is trying here to become a master in slowing down. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Prammer.]] This is true of this proposal, which already exists in this legislative period, which was already in place in the last and the last, namely our request for the replacement of the criminal law paragraph 209. I don't think I need to explain what it's all about in this house anymore. You know that very well. [[Calls and calls between all political groups.]] What you are doing here – above all the colleagues of the ÖVP have been addressed here – is to drag away. You're going to sit down, you're not going to go on. They seem to really want to get into the EU's final goal or not at all as far as this area is concerned. Mrs Fekter – I would like to speak to you personally – you know, on 29 October. In October 1999, when this legislative period began, we submitted the application for abolition. A Subcommittee of the Justice Committee was set up in May last year. In September of last year, it was then constituted – and since then we are waiting for you to finally take a heart – "Politics with Heart" is a new motto of your government – to convene this subcommittee. But it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen. Since the establishment of this subcommittee, almost a year has passed since then, and it still does not meet. You, Mrs. Dr. Fekter, told me before Christmas, we'll do it before Christmas. Then you told me: Maybe after Easter, but there's still no date. Is it perhaps not because you know that, if there is a change here, namely, a replacement-free deletion, then the issues on the agenda will finally be on the agenda: the issues of equality between lesbian and gay communities with heterosexual communities? [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Don't you do it for that? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is one of my assumptions: They want to interfere here for so long and do not decide, but move it to the long bank until the legislative period is perhaps over again and nothing has happened again. [[Abg. Großruck: Go to Amsterdam!]] Yes, Amsterdam would be a good example. There, lesbians and gays can even get married. We're still far away from that. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But this does not only apply to the Netherlands. Do you know that even in Catholic Portugal, lesbians and gays can now declare their communities and have the same rights as heterosexuals? You know that? Maybe negotiate and talk. Once with the Catholic colleagues in Portugal to find out what it is like! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I think there are major problems in Austria!]] But not just that. There are also advanced people within the ÖVP in Austria, as the example shows two weeks ago in the Styrian Landtag. I mentioned this last week. Mrs. Ridi Steiblhat then means that she can't be bought by the Steirers. Shame! [[Abg. Steibl: I said of the Greens!]] Not from the Greens! But your colleagues from the ÖVP agreed on a request for equality between lesbian and gay communities, particularly in the field of rent and labour law, and I asked you whether you would finally follow what your Styrian colleagues want and make a request here. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] Unfortunately, we haven't seen it yet. Maybe you'll do that again. Equal opportunities are currently being negotiated in Salzburg's Landtag. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] The ÖVP still thinks that a focus is family policy, for example, in the promotion of housing. But last week you also agreed to the family report, and it says that there are also lesbian and gay communities with children who are also considered families. Why do it? You don't finally agree with what you yourself agree with, and are you going into equality here?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10233	One second, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I ask Mr Kummerer not to use a cell phone in the meeting room. Secondly, there is a too high level of background noise, which should be kept a little quieter. All four political groups are in favour. Every speaker will be satisfied if he can make himself understandable. Please, continue, Mrs Deputies!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10251	Thank you, Mr President. – I claim that the replacement-free deletion of § 209 StGB has not yet taken place is a major obstacle to the fact that we are finally able to address the other issues, that we are finally addressing topics in Austria, which in total lead to equality between lesbians and gays. But you're not ready yet. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! What's going to be Are you replying to the European Court of Human Rights? Since 1998 and 1999, there have been three complaints from those convicted in Austria according to § 209. The European Court of Human Rights has now asked the Austrian Government to announce by the end of April – which is in just under a month – why, in Austria, 14 to 18-year-old male youths can be punished for sexual sexual acts with up to five years of age, while heterosexual and lesbian contacts with the same age group are completely free of penalties. The European Court of Human Rights wants to know about this from Austria. So far, there is no answer, and I am curious about what answer you will give. Will you say that this has always been the case in Austria, so we continue to do so? Are you represented by all these theories, which are rebutted, that there is a mint or that this is not normal and so on? Is that what you're going to say? Or what will you say? I'm very curious about that. I am curious about what, for example, one of your colleagues from the government groups, Mr Mainoni, has said here today and also during a discussion in the Vienna election campaign, invited by the homosexual initiative Vienna. He has rationally meant – I don't have it exactly in my ear anymore – that this § 209 StGB is really deleted, that this is a crazy idea to punish men for gay contacts with between 14 and 18-year-olds more strongly, or to punish them at all, while the other is not. . I very much hope that you will prevail here with the colleagues of the EIA. If you say in the ÖVP now, you still need time, you need to negotiate and discuss here even longer and perhaps still convince some and I don't know what else, then I have to tell you you have had a very long time to do so! You say you plan to reduce about the age of 18 to 16 years, but maybe you want to raise the age for lesbians and heterosexuals from 14 to 16 so that everyone is equal so that there is no discrimination here. That's what I'm really asking you: Is human rights policy in 2001? - It can't be! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Even "amnesty international" says that the convicts are prisoners of conscience according to § 209 StGB and that "amnesty" serves them. – This is illegal in human rights, what is happening here in Austria! And if you already say that Austria is so great about human rights – we hear it again and again – and what you did not do everything last year, you finally agree to our request! Mrs Fekter, call on the Subcommittee so that a decision can still be taken here in the May-Plenum so that this disgrace section in Austrian criminal law will finally and replace it! Take a heart! Accept and create Make these paragraphs final and replace them without any replacement!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10314	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10336	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know how many debates about § 209 StGB I have already experienced here in this House, but unfortunately we have the same position again and again: Much of the EIA and many in FPÖ are trying to prevent what is actually a matter of course in almost all of Europe today, namely the equal treatment of gender and heterosexual relations. It is also quite significant that, for example, Liechtenstein, which has adopted the Austrian Criminal Code, has just recently deleted § 209 StGB for its scope, because it seems to have become clear everywhere outside Austria that this section is absurd that it is unfair that it creates major problems and finally hears them abolished. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is always argued with the need for protection of young people, and this is, of course, an issue that needs to be taken very seriously. However, I would like to point out that there are a number of protection provisions in the Criminal Code that prevent young people from being sexually exploited. I refer, for example, to the provision on the use of a dependency relationship, which is very targeted against teachers, against educators who may misuse their guardians. There are provisions on the need and various other provisions on sexual abuse. That is, young people are protected. It is not a protection age either, it is actually a minimum age, because this section clearly does not protect any young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But I don't want to see it as pessimistic as I might have sounded at the beginning. There are voices – in the FPÖ, above all – that stand for something to change here. Mr Lunacek mentioned Mr Mainoni. In connection with the withdrawal of the driver's licence of a convict for § 209, he said that this notice is an extension of a revolving system. He would also abolish § 209, but the coalition partner ÖVP is on the brake. Mr Ofner will still speak on this subject, and I have heard positive signals from this point of view too. And Mrs. Vice-Chancellor is a member of the LAMBDA Legal Committee, which has set itself the task of abolishing § 209 StGB. . So I think if Mrs. Vice-Chancellor is in favour and the current Chancellor, Dr. Schüssel, has contributed to the formulation of Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam in the negotiations, it can only be a matter of time for something to change here. You always say, good thing needs a while, but in this case it clearly takes too long. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Subcommittee shall never meet. He was constituted in May, I think, set up, in autumn – and otherwise: Silence. But on the other hand, I think it's all really debated. The experts have expressed themselves. It is clear: This § 209 is not up-to-date. We should therefore come to a solution as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10405	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10426	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have already had a vote on this issue in the House some years ago. It took place in two councils. First of all, it was the complete abolition of the so-called age limit. At the time, I have shown a somewhat suspended voting attitude to my environment – one or the other will remember – so I am not scared in this sector. There's been a second cast at 16 years of age. There were many who later repented, for the representatives of the relevant organizations explained: If only we would have gotten that, we would have been better off than we are now! The preludium in this direction has its meaning. I have the impression that we, Austria, are under increasing pressure from abroad at different levels. It is also difficult for one to argue in order to defend the provision of § 209 StGB. But I'm an optimist in this sector, and I remember explaining sometime a decade ago at a "HOSI" event in the Auditorium Maximum of the New Institute building: Leave You're looking for it, this day the destiny will be gone! - She's still there. This one of my statements was then placed at the next "HOSI" event. I was just an optimist, I couldn't help it. But I am really convinced that – perhaps no longer in this legislative period, but if not, then the beginning of the next one, because after elections, something like this will always be easier than before elections. I believe that those who defend something here, which can hardly be defended anymore, are in decline according to the number and that those who feel it must stir up there, represent the majority or be represented soon. I warn, however, that those concerned believe that the civil and other legal circumstances in their minds could be resolved in a wash-up. Although a good part of the population and many Members may be of the opinion – and in my opinion too – that the 209s are no longer to be kept, I believe that it was meant to pass by the vast majority of standard recipients, if everything you want is done, for example in the field of adoption right, housing law, social law, inheritance law, the right of duty – I do not understand everything, but it is more – immediately done. There is no doubt that resistance is so great that hardly anyone – at least not a corresponding majority – will trust to bring it over the legislative stage. As I said, I am optimistic about what is going on in § 209 StGB. However, I do not believe that this optimism – in the sense of those concerned – would also be appropriate for the other legal issues. I believe, however, that setting a deadline on this delicate subject would be more like raising resistance than being conducive. Personally, I am therefore going to vote against the deadline request – and I assume that my group too will do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10475	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. The same time applies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10496	Mr President. High house! Since the decline of the great age to 18 years in childhood law and in the Jugendgerichtsgesetz, it is justified for me to discuss also § 209 StGB, because there is still "19 years". My group cannot accept a replacement-free deletion which Mrs Lunacek calls for and which would allow the sexual contact of adult men with 14-year-old boys. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The protection of young people, especially young boys, is a priority in our reflections. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: What about the girls?]] However, the opinion on a possible reform of § 209 StGB has not yet been completed in our group. [[Abg. May. Posch: But it will be time!]] Therefore, we cannot agree to your request for a deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10564	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10586	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ofner said: Time limit creates resistance, so it is not possible. Mrs Fekter has made a gentle point that there may be a perspective on solutions, namely the reduction of maturity to 14 years, which would solve the problem by itself. I do not mean that, but I would just like to show you how little will there is here, the problem that actually exists, namely with discrimination – what does discrimination mean? – to devote serious to the permanent, daily violation of human rights that happens in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I can remember very well, like Mr Dr. Ofner, this vote, which he called "alongside". At that time I was pregnant, that was in November 1996. In the meantime, my son is a fluffy kindergarten child. It's been so long. I share his view that the vote went beyond that at the time. He made a reasonable personal effort to assert influence, only at the time he had no influence at all in the opposition party of the liberals. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You didn't agree!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that is why this vote took place at the time. Today, the same Dr. Ofner is an apparently like-influenced Member in his group, although this group is now in government responsibility. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Would you have agreed at the time! Why didn't you agree?]] Today, he provides us with the prospect that there may be a change in a next legislative period. I'm telling you, that's a sobriety special. Ladies and gentlemen! There are facts that point to how important and essential it would be to act, regardless of human rights violations. It is not about the threatening convictions before the European Court of Human Rights, but about the real responsibility for the management of human rights in Austria for each individual Member. It is exclusively in your hands whether this illegal record, which the criminal code norms, continues to exist or not! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No one other than you has at present, in this composition, the need to judge further unjustly. Only this week a judge did the following in proceedings concerning § 209 StGB. There was finally a solution there, because the man who had been accused of this criminal act was credible to the judge and confirmed "sacrifice" by the so-called "sacrifice" that he said he did not know that the age of the other was below the so-called minimum age limit. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There was an acquittal, but the judge said in this trial that he would have stopped the proceedings, even if the accused had not erred in respect of the age of the young man, against the granting of a trial period. He can't do anything else. For me, this is one of the most important arguments that took place in the 21st century. ==References== This has not yet been done in 1996, I tell you that the judges address this public response to Parliament and say: Please, don't let's be wronged all the time! You can't do anything else. It is in the Austrian legal order that this is a criminally relevant case-law if it is set, and a judge must not acquit it because otherwise he would break the law. Therefore, there are permanent – you can read these correspondences, which above all come from the organizations, – the appeals of the judges: Stop that injustice-judicature! Get away with the § 209 StGB! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That is why the deadline is so significant – and Mrs Lunacek has already said this very clearly here – because you are so intrusive, so little serious about the matter. That is where the opposition makes a request – but not that one would say we reject it, but one calls for a subcommittee: Let's make a subcommittee! That was at the beginning of last year. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Talk time!]] Then the Subcommittee will decide to establish itself in September. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Now we have April 2001, and there has not been a session yet.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10669	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10684	This speaks volumes about the insanity with which human rights are treated in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10715	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall therefore vote, and we shall vote on the request to the Justice Committee to report on the application 10/A concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code, a period of time until 9. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this deadline proposal to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10753	I will resume the negotiations on the Advisory Group VIII. The next item is the speech by Mr Pistotnig. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10777	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the preamble to the 2002 budget you can read: Support in the forestry sector shall include those measures which promote the forestry sector as regards its impact in the public interest. The amount of funding is 280 million schilling. This money is primarily used for the high-level reforestation and conservation of forests, in order to protect the population from floods, natural disasters and so on. The same is true of the Wildbach and avalanche installations, which are donated with 960 million Schilling. These measures also serve to prevent natural disasters. Ladies and gentlemen! That wasn't always the way it turns out when you read it. In 1996, there was a huge problem after the then Minister of Finance Viktor Klima simply removed the central reserve pot for these disasters in the amount of 1.3 billion schilling, integrated into the budget and thus stuffed holes. I should like to congratulate Mr Edlinger on his excellent report today. Mr Edlinger, as Minister of Finance, you were no worse than your predecessor climate! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] If there had not been a careful agriculture minister in the person of Wilhelm Molterer at that time, who, with the help of all the national leaders and especially the countries, had enforced that this central reserve could be increased again to 400 million within four days, so that 400 million were at last available for this, then we would have looked bad in the major disasters in Tirol, for example. Today, we also need this money to cover the consequences of BSE. But as important as the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation are, Mr. Federal Minister, I must say that it is time to restructure the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation. The change in the scope of the task of including conservation forest renovation and the money for the reforestation in hazardous areas has already happened. Nevertheless, it should be borne in mind that a third more could be done in construction work – for the same amount of money, I say now; and this third more must be done. We don't have any more money, but we can do more through faster construction measures and by making us think through it better, by a third. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Very briefly to the Federal Forests; this also concerns the forest areas. There was a press conference as it was declared that 27 000 hectares of the land of the Federal Forests should now be sold. And the Chairman of the Nature Friends of Austria, Mr. National Council President Heinz Fischer, and his Secretary-General said: The Minister of Finance is to end the game of concealment and finally tell the public what amount is actually to be transferred from the Federal Forests to the budget. Please, this has been known for over a year! It's 3 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But they never come to pass!]] These are obtained by sales. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: A maximum of 1 billion will get them! Maximal!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Sure!]] This will support the budget and give farmers the opportunity to buy land. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] "Beware of the beginnings!", it was said, and that the 27 000 hectares are only the beginning and that it will end after salami tactics in the disciplining sale of the entire land area of the Austrian Federal Forests. [[Abg. Gradwell:... take for beard coin!]] Mr Secretary-General Dayer has also said that there is anyway too little part of the state forest, which is beautiful. But that's only half the truth. Please go to the Czech Republic or drive to Slovakia – there there has only been state forests – and look at what they look like! There I am very proud of the Federal Forest and the 80 percent of private forests in Austria with God! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And if you think that the small farmers will not have the money to buy the areas of the ÖBF, then I suggest: Let's wait and see who gets the land! I can tell you that, as far as I know, it is mainly smaller land that any adjacent farmer will be able to afford. Finally, please note that this government – unlike previous governments – not only promises, but also keeps and implements!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10895	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e10917	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to repeat once again that during my colleague Otmar BrixFrau's speech Dr. Helene Partik-Pabléin has been listening to an intermediate call: You fit well into Vienna with your language and with your appearance! Does that mean she's too good for Vienna? Or what does that mean? – In any case, the Viennans have said exactly that she does not fit in with Vienna, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: 30 percent Häupl!]] Mrs Achatz! You have accused our first speaker, Mr Wimmer, of voting in favour of the agricultural budgets when we were still in the government, and They said he was standing there today and criticised. I think I remember correctly. As a result, you have also very clearly criticized this budget. Now I'm excited... Ah, you've already said you agree! – I think you're doing the same thing now as we were at the time: [[Abg. Achatz: But I also said exactly why I agree!]] The ÖVP does not leave you out of their catch, you must agree! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Achatz: No, no!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Do you really want to get sick?]] Back to the agricultural budget. – One thing is certainly consistently successful and very continuous: In the agricultural budget, nothing has changed, the big ones are being further encouraged, the little ones are going down. Minister for Agriculture! I find that where the approaches are concerned there is nothing to do with the cost of BSE crisis and drug abuse. It has been with us that BSE does not thank God. The foot-and-mouth disease is not there in our God either. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Ministry of Health is responsible for this!]] But do you know what many consumers say, but also a lot of farmers? – Now there would be a chance, analogous to the wine scandal, to realize the concept of the "Feinkosladen Österreich". Now would actually be the chance to do so! Federal Minister! If we blame you for giving the organic farmers less than more, it always says: That's not true, there's more for the organic farmers! – I really ask you to have a private body in which you will tell us where there is more for the organic farmers. [[Abg. Hornek: Right! For the control organizations less!]] I can't find that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] However, what I have found – and this is already very interesting – was a press release by Mr Schwarzenberger, in which he noted the recurring demand for more organic farmers: We will have these very quickly if the market demands it. [[Abg. Hornek: We already have more!]] Then he also says that so much milk is poured away, and so on. [[Abg. Look, if you don't understand!]] – Unfortunately, I don't have so much time, the lamp shines again. So he says, "if the market demands it." - That's an interesting observation. [[Abg. Hornek: If the consumers want it!]] He obviously does not know that the organic farmers are already sold out today. They can no longer produce as much as they could sell. [[Abg. Hornek: That's not true! That'd be nice!]] The second is: The organic farmers do not leave you to the free market, the large farmers. They are being promoted with millions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A word on rural development or rural development. – Minister of State! They have meant that in the future it will be necessary not only to promote agriculture but to further define rural areas. I am looking forward to this when rural funds will not only go to agricultural support, but also to structural support. I only point – unfortunately my speaking time is already out – to the example of the dairy in Königswiesen. This small town in the Mühlviertel has lost the dairies; no one was helped there, 80 people were without work. The next step in the "Development of the Rural Area" is the Gendarmerie Post. And that's how it goes! [[Abg. Großruck: This was Schlögl, who locked him!]] The rural area dries out with your policy, ladies and gentlemen, and we are not to have for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11139	So, now the postal script is done! Next, Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11164	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria is an example in terms of environmental protection internationally and has this position also in the field of climate protection. For CO2 emissions per capita, Austria is well below the EU average and thus in the positive peak. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria is also at the forefront of environmental promotion. The total funding for environmental aid was around 1 per cent across the EU between 1994 and 1997. The Austrian average for 1995 to 1997 was 9 percent, which was the highest in the EU after Denmark. One of the biggest global challenges for the next decades in the field of environmental protection is undoubtedly the reduction of man-made greenhouse effect. That is why the main focus of environmental policy in 2002 will be on the Kyoto target. This requirement takes into account the increase in operational environmental support from 475 million Schilling in 2000 to 650 million Schilling in the 2002 budget. "Preventing is better than healing." – This old folk wisdom must be taken into account in this subject. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Kyoto option analysis of Austrian municipal credit AG predicts an employment effect of at least 14 000 workers for the period of 10 years when implementing the measures required in Austria to achieve the Kyoto objective. Thus, ambitious environmental policies not only lead to better quality of life, but also have a positive effect on the labour market. In Austria's strategy to achieve the Kyoto target of 5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, thermal building renovation and optimum use of space heat is the largest savings potential. In this context, the thermal old house renovation, the increased use of renewable energy sources and the expansion of district heating are the most promising measures. In this respect, the transformation of housing development according to ecological and energetic criteria and a re-transposition of housing funds from the new construction promotion to the old house renovation must take place. As a practical example, I would like to mention here the "Energy Agency Waldviertel". Over 30 Waldviertler municipalities have joined forces to carry out energy optimizations in the municipal area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would particularly like to mention the enormous commitment of our District Captain, who holds the function of the Obscene on a voluntary and without financial charge. In the meantime, 11 energy concepts have been developed by this Energy Agency for municipalities and some of them have already been implemented in practice. The Agency's productivity-independent consultants, for example for public buildings such as schools, municipal buildings and so on, continue to produce energy-saving proposals and advise on calls for proposals and implementations. The main focus is on ensuring that value added remains in the region in the long term. From the financing to the execution of the work, mainly regional companies are used. The energy cost savings potential is sometimes up to 50 percent. Investments are therefore largely self-contained. This is not only an environmental policy, it is also a significant economic impulse for the region. As regretful of the realization of the Kyoto target, I feel that according to his statements, US President Bush wants to deal responsibly with our livelihoods, the environment. The more important it is to continue the Austrian path massively in the usual form, namely the path of the eco-social market economy. And we will support our sovereign Minister, Molterer, according to the body.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11239	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11260	Mr President. High house! Mr Federal Minister, in the budgeting of environmental expenditure, you do not even pass on the higher revenue from the disposal of the Water Economic Fund and the higher revenue from the old-age recovery contributions. There is, however, a very high investment requirement in the water sector. In contrast, you allow the increased funding value of the Water Economic Fund to fall from 3.9 billion Schilling in 2000 to just over 3 billion in 2002 to 2004. This decline, of course, also has direct consequences in the civil engineering sector, in which there are already 1 200 annual jobs fewer in 2001. In 2002, there will already be around 2,500 annual jobs. Mr Minister, you are starving for the Water Economic Fund! It is quite clear what direction this policy should lead to, namely, the sale of domestic water supply and waste water disposal plants to private concessionaries, which will certainly no longer be able to achieve social balance and will therefore not offer them. It is also already evident who is most interested in such a solution, namely the industrial companies that themselves have to dispose of large amounts of waste water and want to get their investments in the required plants in return – above all, the dear paper industry. The industrial magnates in this House are obviously able to make those laws which they need in order to simply fatten their balance sheets, their private businesses. It is becoming increasingly clear that even in the allocation of grants for rural settlement water management funds, rural areas are preferred to cities, even though smaller towns have already been promoted up to three times higher than cities. That is why the municipal council of the Lower Austrian capital St. Pölten just recently, on 26 May. March, unanimously adopted a resolution against the reduction of the subsidy for the urban water industry, i.e. also with the votes of the ÖVP and the FPÖ in the municipal council of the Lower Austrian capital. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, it is not true that the high level of connectivity of cities in the field of wastewater disposal no longer requires investment. The exact opposite is the case. The renewal or regeneration of the old systems, especially in the cities, is now a focus of investment. In addition, it is also important to finance new necessary projects. As far as Austria is concerned, 3 billion schillings of funding are already in place, and the cuts made by the government are still far worse for the future. Minister! The reduction in funding will require a delay in projects that are urgently needed, and all this only so that you, Minister for the Environment, can fulfill your dream of privatising the Austrian water industry and that the Minister of Economic Affairs can fulfill his dream of full privatization of Austria. We can't get rid of these efforts by social democrats. With your attitude, Mr Minister and my honourable ladies and gentlemen, you are harming the government parties, the high standard of Austria in the water industry and in the quality of drinking water.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11312	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Fallent. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11333	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The last 100 years, and I am very sure of that, are certainly one of the great mistakes of humanity in the field of resource and energy consumption. The global situation is threatening: 20 percent of mankind consume 80 percent of the world's total resources. Significant climate changes have occurred. The deforestation of the rainforests is proceeding dramatically. There is enormous land consumption due to intensive agriculture. 800 million people are hungry on our planet. Drinking water supplies are going to decline, and drinking water consumption is increasing dramatically. Soils and drinking water are becoming increasingly polluted at the same time. Worldwide – and we feel it right now in Europe – diseases and most serious diseases are increasing. The oil age tends to its end; we see this at the rising price of oil that is added to us. There is actually a bottleneck of so-called cheaply available oil. Nuclear power plants threaten humanity, and one of them is very close to our borders. Rural areas suffer from desertification and infrastructure losses, and agglomerations begin to paralyze themselves. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has to do with our lifestyle. We're pretending to have a second planet in reserve. Our children won't understand. They will not agree that we today are not sufficiently able to make the necessary choices towards sustainable development. I myself deal with renewable energy and the sustainable development of habitats. [[Abg. Auer: Successful!]] Please? [[Abg. Auer: Successful!]] With the successful, exactly! In doing so, I am guided by the principles of sustainability. In order to create habitats with a future, one must focus on these principles of long-termness, local identity, diversity, proximity, quality and partnership. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In these habitats there is no space for nuclear energy, for resource waste, for fossil energy sources and a lifestyle that puts maximum consumption ahead of quality of life. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have a crucial question to ask ourselves, and I am convinced that it must be the top objective of every policy to ensure quality of life for current and future generations. Austria and Europe are facing one of the major challenges associated with environmental protection, namely the complete transition to renewable energy sources. That means no to oil, that is, no to gas and coal, and that means no to nuclear energy. [[As a surprise to the liberals as well as to Mr Auer and Mr Hornek.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Temelin is therefore not the way to a sustainable future and certainly not the way to a European community of values for the Czech Republic! In the present situation, it is certainly not likely that an EIA will be positive, that it will be fully implemented by the "Melker Agreement" and that the results will allow for the continuation of the Temelin nuclear power plant. I'm sure: If the Czech Republic does not implement the "Melker Agreement" in full or if the outcome of the EIA is indeed negative and the bilateral efforts needed then do not lead to the decommissioning of the power plant, then it is, ladies and gentlemen, because we also bear the responsibility for the coming generations to carry out a junkimation with the EU accession negotiations. I also ask Federal Minister Molterer to check whether there is in fact a request from EURATOM for an increase in the credit framework by 2 billion y in order to finance and build nuclear installations. I would ask you to stop such a development and the 2 billion j that have been requested for this increase to give way to the energy transition. We need the relief of labour force, we need a burden of fossil and atomic energy sources and non-retiring raw materials. We need eco-bonus systems, we need the cost-effectiveness of energy sources and feed-in laws for renewable energy. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's turn our face to the sun, and let's leave the shadows behind! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11401	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11422	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Estimated Members of the Government Party! We have tried in the last few hours of the agricultural debate, or at least you have tried to work out progress. We have not seen much, even if we look at the official tasks of the Federal Government, such as the "measures for agriculture and forestry in 2001" in the Committee, so that it does not reach the public. What do we find here on page 10, discussed in the middle of the BSE crisis? Quality improvement in animal husbandry: The measures to improve production hygiene – and I will come back later, Federal Minister – "as well as increasing productivity in the livestock sector will be a priority in the year 2000." – "2000" is not a promiseor, but this paragraph was copied from previous reports by the new Federal Government. It was not even considered necessary to change the date. – "Increasing productivity" is still found in the official report of the Federal Government for 2001, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have been talking a lot about subsidies in recent hours, subsidies. Everyone calculates the numbers, on Neudeutsche the benchmarks, as he needs it. Some interesting figures can be found in the 1999 Green Report, which, as we have always admitted and noted, is a good report. When we look at the fact that there are 394 subsidy millionaires – 394 Farms receive more than 1 million schillings of subsidies – then it is noted that this is due to average numbers, because the self-employed have an average income of 221 482 p.m. on average. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Party! I can only tell you: The small farmers of the wine district can only dream of such income because they do not have it. They have just as little as 1 million employees in Austria, who also do not access this average income. So you see how your funding millionaires falsify the statistics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One may object: Perhaps it comes back at least on the return rate, on taxes! – But that is not the case! What, then, are the millionaires and small businesses paying taxes to the Republic? 8 526 S – not in the month, but in the year – flow back from this area. Workers pay an average of 65 355 S per year. These figures are from 1999. And you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, still thought it necessary to raise more taxes for them 111 billion schilling, and you still thought it necessary to bring the amount of wage tax to the highest level in the budget by 2002. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope it will thank the people of this government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On production hygiene: Federal Minister! We have always talked about nitrate, nitrite, pesticides and atrazin in the groundwater of the eastern region. Now there is a new study dealing with the hygienic regulations, the hygienic state. I suppose you know this study because you were born in your house. We realize that in the East only 15 percent of water supply plants have sufficient water. 44 percent of the wells studied are so contaminated that the water is not edible. Unfortunately, the pollutants of these waters, as they are used in agriculture, enter the food chain. We have therefore prepared for this case, which is a more urgent one, in which there is almost a risk of delay, a motion for a resolution which I am submitting here: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! We have a problem that needs a solution. I ask you to support us!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11534	The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Johann Loos. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11562	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Like many others, I listened very attentively to the speakers of the opposition today, thinking: How would a potential Austrian vacationer react to what has been said here? You didn't just picture Austria as beautiful, you said we were going down and over it, groundwater problems, old load problems and so on. But the opposite, ladies and gentlemen, is the case! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With regard to groundwater problems – I also think about waste management or waste water disposal – I can show by a small example what is actually done in Austria. With us there is an association of four villages – not even 10,000 inhabitants! – spending half a billion shillings in the last few years alone to clean the waste water accordingly. The population is involved and there are good incentives for this. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, the groundwater is largely in order! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But I would particularly like to talk about one point, namely the national parks in Austria. We have five national parks in Austria, whose institution has proved to be the best. Year after year, more and more visitors discover these national parks and make use of the diverse programs. This has clearly made the national parks a value-added factor for the regional economy, which in a unique way combines nature conservation with recreation, education and research. Ladies and gentlemen! There are surveys that are particularly good for us in this regard. In the summer of 2000, the Fessel Institute conducted such a telephone survey with the result: Only 4 percent of respondents have never heard of a national park. But what is even more important: The degree of support corresponds to one of the highest recent approval values for a state institution. For young people, 95 percent is even higher than the general agreement. What makes me particularly happy is: The most famous are the National Park Neusiedler See – Seewinkel – no wonder, I have been working on the board there for years! – and the Hohe Tauern National Park. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] With regard to National Park Neusiedler See, I might like to say: There is also a very good cooperation with the WWF there. The current president of the WWF, Dr. Pechlaner – he is the director of the Tiergarten Schönbrunn – is also a member of the board of directors, so it works best. Today – and this is interesting in terms of the budget – the national parks are co-financed by the federal government with 130 million Schilling. This money not only satisfys the rights of the owners of the property in the sense of the nature of the contract, but also makes numerous investments. Investments are particularly concerned with infrastructure and services. In addition to direct investment, the operation of the National Park also creates many impulses which, as I have already pointed out, have an impact on the regional economy. Ladies and gentlemen! The now very rich educational and recreational offer of the National Parks attracts more people from year to year, especially school classes. An evaluation of the previous year shows that 50 000 children and young people have visited the five Austrian national parks last year. Tourism is also very important in this context. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ecotourism is becoming increasingly important. The WTO will hold an international conference on this subject in Salzburg this year, and another multi-day event of the EUROPERC will also take place in Austria. The Austrian National Parks thus have the opportunity to make themselves known internationally. We made this excellent two years ago on the occasion of the world exhibition in Lisbon, where we can record a particularly good reception of these national parks in the entire world population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would particularly like to stress this – in conclusion – that these national parks are also very important in the field of diplomacy. The then Minister of Economic Affairs Dr. Schüssel, who today is the Federal Chancellor – thank God! – sitting behind me, was with us with the EFTA ministers at the time and has certainly left a good impression with regard to Austria. [[Cheerfulness, consolation and bravo noise at the ÖVP]] By the way, he always leaves a good impression, not only in Apetlon, but also here in Vienna, for which I am very grateful as a Member. [[Renewal cheerfulness, congratulation and bravo noise at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you to all those who volunteer in nature conservation! Thank you all who work in a national park!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11651	The next speaker is Mr Hannes Bauer. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11672	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! First of all, ladies and gentlemen: There are also well-known national parks in Lower Austria, namely the Danube and the Thaya Valley. [[Abg. Kiss: Which one, Hannes?]] We are proud of everyone, to say that clearly! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] With regard to the request for a time limit, which has been dealt with recently, I have noticed a very remarkable statement made by Mr Ofner. He said that it was easier to regulate something after the elections than before the elections. – Since we are just after elections – the elections are just a year ago – it can be concluded, of course, that there may be difficulties in the clubs of the two government parties, for otherwise such a statement that we are practically before elections could not be met! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Mr Bauer, we are two and a half years before the elections!]] That could also explain why Mr Hornegger has taken so completely different positions on agriculture than the Austrian People's Party. By the way, they are very similar to the position that we call a staggering with greater social balance. It could also explain why Mr Gaugg is not present today. Although I do not want to interpret anything more, it is remarkable anyway. Mr Auer, who was so upset about the 'Natura 2000' programme, I would like to say as someone in charge of it in Lower Austria: There were unanimous decisions in this regard by the Lower Austrian government – unfortunately from the time before I entered the government – which had to be corrected. The fact is that, even in Upper Austria, the relevant decisions have been taken unanimously, so he should have brought this action against his own state or head of state, Mr. Pühringer. Today, Federal Minister Molterer spoke very clearly about an offensive policy for the rural area. I think this is a real challenge, because of course the rural area as a whole can be understood. In addition, the rural area is something that ultimately means a lot to us, not only as a production site, but also as a habitat. But this also means that agriculture should not only focus on the sphere of production, but – I think it is also very important – that it ultimately also creates landscapes and environments in which everyone of us likes to live. The question of environmental protection is, in my view, a survival strategy, because we all live in an environment and, in the end, have the only chance of ensuring long-term living standards. That is why, as I believe, I have to explain why we are very critical of today's proposals: not because nothing is happening. In Austria, a lot has happened in terms of environmental protection, which is completely undisputed. We have certainly created an environmental model country – whether in the wastewater sector or in other aspects – in a wide range of areas, because we have been investing massively in this area for many decades, and without investment it is not possible! But, ladies and gentlemen, in the 1970s we had the courage to start with environmental policy and establish it as a trademark. This means that our environmental policy was always a step ahead of those of the European neighbours with their limits. Today we are experiencing an environmental policy that always works with the reference: In other countries, they have a little less stringent regulations, so we are also leaving behind. – But that’s the wrong strategy! I believe that Austria should continue to strive to be at the forefront of environmental protection within Europe and to continue this path exemplaryly in terms of our tourism and quality of life. If, for example, the water economy, where, as we know, some 160 billion schilling is required by 2012, is reduced, even though we know that after 2004, we will need 4 billion schilling more, that means that our goal will not be achieved. This is precisely what we are talking about, namely that these extremely important objectives are also being achieved. We see environmental protection in such a way that we make it visible in Austria and launch such an offensive in the neighbouring countries too, because I believe that most of our future environmental protection is also that we pay contributions to the neighbouring states in order not to be more affected by their pollution. This refers to both water and air pollution. So that means keeping nature in order on both sides of the borders. Therefore, an ambitious, offensive programme for neighbouring countries could be developed, because, as has already been said, environmental policy is ultimately very positive in the form of jobs and the high investment needs are important incentives for the domestic economy. Therefore, I believe that environmental policy has long since ceased to be seen only from the point of view of costs and rather goes towards truly comprehensive quality of life – with the aspect that it is also economically worthwhile to carry out environmental policy consciously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11738	The next speaker is Mr Zellot. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11759	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Although the budget for agriculture and forestry as well as for environmental protection is not as bad as some would like – there is actually no wishful budget – the framework conditions for Austrian agriculture and for the implementation of the individual environmental measures still exist. Ladies and gentlemen! Many speakers have spoken about environmental protection before me, but one thing is quite clear: In the field of environmental protection in agriculture – whether for air, water or now, especially in the field of renewable energy – Austria is the environmental country number 1 within the European Union. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, further improvements in agricultural production – especially in organic production – are possible. Some of my previous speakers have meant that there are only smaller farms in organic farming. – Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There are already farms with 50 dairy cows that operate organically today! There should be no dispute between large and small people; it is important how healthy it is to produce environmentally friendly products. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My previous speakers also discussed the hygiene, veterinary and general hygiene rules in agriculture. – Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Such strict hygiene rules, as they have Austrian agriculture, such strict milk hygiene controls, as they have Austrian agriculture, have no other country of the European Union! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to add: Perhaps you have once visited a farm in which millions have been invested for organic production and in which, for example, cheese is produced. Ask the farmer or the farmer how much time they have left and how exactly they are controlled in accordance with the strictest provisions of the agricultural market Austria! The Austrian farmers were controlled 90,000 times in one year. More controls are no longer possible here. In my opinion, Austrian agriculture is carefully controlled for the benefit of the consumer and can therefore also supply the best food. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Austria is already the fine food shop of the European Union! Other Member States are still a long way off. The problem we have in Austrian agriculture, but also in pan-European agriculture, is the curse of the crowd. The disorientation of the European agricultural policy has shown itself particularly in the crises that still exist, such as the BSE crisis. Of course, scandalous is the way in which the EU copes with the BSE crisis and how the Austrian cattle farmers have been abandoned. Ladies and gentlemen! Such precise controls as are now being carried out in the beef sector, such as precisely controlled foods, have not yet been carried out! And although Austria has no BSE case, despite the fact that Austria has no MKS case, although Austria has no animal meal, although we have the strictest hygiene regulations, the Austrian agricultural policy in the cattle sector had to record 30 percent of price losses. Of course, that not all Austrian EU delegates agree to compensation for Austrian cattle farmers is a warning signal to me. When it comes to requiring support and compensation and compensation for Member States that do not have BSE cases, I expect the representatives of all Austrian political parties in the EU Parliament to vote in favour of it and to fight together for it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The European Parliament has now decided to increase BSE resources – of course again in favour of holdings with mass animal husbandry, i.e. those that force mass animal husbandry and, above all, are responsible for the crisis. I would also like to point out that Commissioner Fischler has once again taken account of the interests of the large Member States and left the lobbyists free. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is, of course, a task for us in the future not to despair; we must conquer new markets. It is important to equip agriculture with appropriate organisational structure and impact and to make it fit as a partner for the trade chains and, on the other hand, to see the trade chains not only as an enemy but rather as a partner. Agriculture must become the contracting partner for the food industry. With our best and high-quality products we have no problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11865	The next speaker is Mrs Perfuss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11887	Mr President. Federal Minister! The Federal Chancellor is already gone. Dear ladies and gentlemen! – Minister of State! You've heard it a lot today, you know it too, and we all know it: Agriculture has a very difficult year behind it, and I think it is far from over the mountain. Federal Minister! It would really be a requirement for politics now. If I look at the 2002 budget, I have to say, unfortunately, that you have not learned anything from this crisis, because in general this budget is a mere continuation of 2001. Unfortunately, nothing can be seen from a focus setting and an ecological objective. My colleagues have already repeatedly explained this in their speeches. However, I would like to address a very specific area, namely rural development. You will remember my speech, which I gave here some time ago and in which I have noted from this speaker's desk that the young farmers no longer have partners today. This is, as it were, the analysis. What would the diagnosis be? And what would be needed? I believe that rural development should be supported in order to make rural areas an attractive habitat, including functioning local services, child care facilities with flexible opening hours – bearing in mind that women are working in the field in summer – cultural centres, schools, a network of social institutions, particularly well accessible authorities, a public transport network and much more. I know you are not responsible for addressing this to the Federal Chancellor's address, but you are ultimately also in this government. What development do we have? – Wherever you look, the rural area is negated. Promised traffic routes are not built, district courts are to be locked up, financial offices are locked up. That is to say, in the final consequence, rural areas are being made even more unattractive. 1980 – They will know exactly – every tenth has been employed in agriculture and forestry; today it is only 5.8 percent of the workforce. It's not just the agricultural prices, Mr. Federal Minister. That's what I mentioned earlier. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I have long been looking to find something positive in this budget. Finally, I can at least hope that the base amount for the miners will still come if there is nothing going on again. We demand it again. [[Call to the ÖVP:It has already been decided!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You only need to agree to the budget!]] Federal Minister! Political maturity is the ability to do the right thing, even if it suggests the opposition. Finally, welcome our bundles of proposals! The farmers and consumers will certainly thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11941	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e11962	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Parnigoni: For or against Welschriesling?]] I would just like to remind my colleague Ludmilla Perfuss from my constituency: If you have read through and looked through the budget and have also followed today's debate, you must be aware that 1.3 billion schilling is more intended for the introduction of the base amount for mining and disadvantaged areas. You can then decide with the budget yourself today, I'd like to invite you to do so. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Auer: If you had so much to do with it!]] At this point one must also say thank you to the farmers in Austria for these last months, in which they have been involved a lot – more in different industries, in some cases a little less. The feeling that you've lived through when you're a professional entrepreneur and want to maintain the family business was certainly not funny. In this hall, our farmers also need the support of all the Members of this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But if, of course, one cannot spend with both hands, as has been done in some sectors in the past – including management, finance ministers and chancellors – this is why, of course, 2 300 billion schillings are to be reduced in debt. And we don't want to make new debts anymore. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Today, therefore, the budget will also be dealt with for the third time within a period of one year. This pace is necessary so that the company of Austria and the population of our home country can continue to live with this high level. This high level has been addressed several times by various previous speakers. I come from the South Styria – you are not unknown to this area. My previous speaker comes from the room Villach environment, a beautiful area. I even found a brochure from the forest district on the go – a dream country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] There is a cultural landscape that is unique all around Austria, and that is why we are going further. This rural area is likely to be discussed again and again, but it is almost always just lip confessions. In fact, we have already heard from our minister today. I'll try to explain them again. The rural area is probably one of the most attractive sights in Austria, but also one of the most promising challenges for people not only in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It may be that synergies from rural development and cultural landscape will be decisive. Taking into account the environmental criteria, the benefits will have to be obtained from a number of points of view. Environmental conditions are social survival strategies to secure our resources and basic needs. There must be no disadvantages in the free market to the detriment of exploitable market policies, even to the threat of existence, to the loss of self-sufficiency and to suppliers and to the dependence on foreign countries and markets. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] holistic approaches need uniform standards. Regional awareness-building projects must be dynamic and, according to their own possibilities, a framework for funding barometers that is non-profitable and sustainable. With Minister Molterer, our agriculture has this holistic approach in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If, in this country, everything is so often crushed to the smallest detail and then always brought out exactly what does not fit you right now, and if big ones are played out against small ones in agriculture, as this has become apparent today in speeches just from the left half of the empire, I say: It's a shame! It's really bad about that – right now, at a time when nature is setting a huge sign of life, namely life. We all see it when we get out, and we all marvel. The products of our agriculture all need us as a lobby. Let us speak positively about this, and avoid the criticism of our domestic agriculture! [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Not on agriculture, but on the Minister!]] That is why I ask you, even if you will not agree to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12087	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12117	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Zweytick is, of course, right: The rural area is particularly beautiful everywhere. I can confirm that the area in which he lives is a very attractive and also nutritious landscape. I already notice some distortion in this debate – you know, I am always for a fair discussion. The coalition – especially the ÖVP; the FPÖ less, which is still trying to sleep a bit – finds everything particularly rosy. Mr Zellot said – I wrote this down – that the environment is excellent in us, that groundwater is largely in order that the hygiene rules are the strictest. – Perhaps the opposition also sometimes overwhelms in its criticism, but in reality we should find ourselves finding out that there are black sheep – once again and again less. There are examples for this. Mr Kummerer has today quoted a study, Mr Federal Minister, who is interesting and to think, as there are problems with the water in certain water supply facilities in rural areas, and precisely again in the east, where we - I am always saying - have the highest promotions and the highest nitrate values, with which the cans are obviously washed out. You have to see that. I've noticed the following – I hope I'm allowed a little angry remark –: In the budget debate, the speakers of the coalition government, in particular the liberals, repeatedly addressed the "heaviest heritage" which was taken over and which was due to social democratic chancellors, finance ministers and mostly also to colleagues One. Obviously, as I said yesterday, in the area of transport it has never been a Minister for Economic Affairs, never a Minister for Economic Affairs Farnleitner, never has a colleague Ditz and never given a Mrs Fekter, who have "never" had anything to do with roads! – In the field of agriculture, however, it is obvious that a good policy has been pursued when I am part of the debate. Obviously, then, parts of the ÖVP have been involved in the last few years! Federal Minister! It's flashing the light again, I have to take a short hold. I just want to warn you about the forest, the Federal Forests. That's a delicate topic! I read in an essential newspaper that Mr. Prinzhorn, our President, thinks – and he is influential – that: The ÖIAG could then also look at areas on which the Minister of Agriculture sits. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer stands up and looks at the seat of his chair.]] - He won't mean your seat here. – Or why does the Chamber of Agriculture have to belong to a fire damage insurance? – So it also starts a certain privatisation in your very own areas. Mr Schwarzenberger, you have to be careful! Minister! Finally, I would like to point out to you very urgently, because I have just received the reply from you, the fishing dump and the Berger landfill. This is a problematic case. I have put together a few newspaper articles to supplement you, because suddenly significant planners believe that we should not have rehabilitated the Berger landfill anyway, and it would not have been necessary for the fishermen's landfill. There's a lot of money in the game. I ask you, Minister, personally to accept these poses! You save yourself and the taxpayer a lot of money!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12171	The next speaker is Mr Ing. Count. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12192	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! To re-government Austria is to say that people in our country are better. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's a beautiful shame! That's a nice shame!]] If you laugh now, I can only tell you, maybe smile It is above the low environmental budget of recent years, which has now been finally increased on the basis of the new Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger]] I think this is a very important contribution. The Federal Minister mentioned it: A total of 6.6 billion schilling is available. – Never has that been the case! If, for example, you are now being reported in the "Kurier" today, about the appeal, the international experts, former Presidents such as Jimmy Carter or Gorbachev and the scientist Stephen Hawking, to which President George Bush is addressed, no challenge we need to face at present is more significant than the threat of global climate change!, then we know what we have to do. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Wrong path!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Louter "subversive elements"!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: On the wrong path!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: All Puff!]] I am very glad that the new Federal Government and you, Mr. Federal Minister, have responded in essence. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The budget sets a clear priority for the environment. From this point of view, I would like to thank all the officials of the Ministry who have done fantastic preparatory work, as well as the Executive Board and the employees of the Austrian municipal credit. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We had 475 million schilling in the budget in 1999. Those ladies and gentlemen who participated in the municipal credit still remember the Eklat in December 1999 when it turned out that this money was not even available. Accordingly, we have 550 million schilling this year, and for the next year there already exists a commitment frame of 650 million schilling. This is an important contribution that has been made with it, especially to that topic which, as we have heard, is currently one of the most important in the whole world. Business environmental promotion also focuses on climate protection. Hundreds of small businesses could be encouraged, and infrastructure measures could be promoted so that progress could be made here. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to mention that all of this is related to the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act, which has been agreed with your votes. Thank God it has been decided by your votes, because I think that renewable energy in particular needs the greatest possible promotion. Especially the ElWOG, which has been decided with you, gives the legal opportunity to carry it out throughout the world. I thank you for this, and it is seen that constructive laws always, even if they are discussed hard together with you, find your consent. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Thank you for that. I've said that a few times. Otherwise, of course, it is with Members of the Greens. Unfortunately, Mrs Glavischnig is not present. [[Abg. Brosz: sick!]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: sick!]] - Excuse me, she's sick. – We were able to admire them on television several times, as it shows windmills and talks about the great future prospects of renewable energies. However, it forgets to mention that it was precisely the Greens who unfortunately voted against our Electricity Economic and Organisation Act, which was also decided by the SPÖ votes. I therefore ask you not to put foreign feathers on the hat, but also to mention the origin, otherwise a windwheel will come again, which will carry these feathers away! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All in all, I would like to conclude with the very precise sentence that honourable Member Gaál has also said in connection with the national defence budget: There are areas that should be kept out of any party policy hack. It will always be a basis for us not only to discuss them together, but also to decide on them. I therefore call on you to join this chapter of the environmental support budget. - Thank you all for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12342	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12363	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should agree. The term "rural space" has often been used. Ladies and gentlemen! 30 percent of the Austrian population live in rural areas. [[Abg. Neudeck: The Happy!]] Therefore, rural areas are not only agriculture, but rural areas are also craftsmen, trades, industry, tourism, and I ask you to pay attention to this rural area in its diversity. I understand that the Federal Minister is clearly trying to force the area he has to cover politically. But it is equally understandable if the other Members of the House are just trying to support the other pillars in rural areas as much as possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! In the short term, two things: First: As a tourist speaker of the SPÖ Group, I ask you to pay particular attention to the decline in the number of nights spent on farm holidays. I think it will be important to ensure, through cooperation and new projects, that this, as you have mentioned, has a future chance for farmers. That is a very important point. The second thing I'm busy with and which I absolutely want to mention was an article in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" today – certainly not a newspaper that can be referred to as a social democratic newspaper – with the headline: "Great sale in the state forest." There is a reference to how much to sell on land, and I think it is very interesting to warn agricultural and ÖVP politicians and high-ranking functionalists, and to raise the index finger, and to think that you have to look, that you have to be careful and so on. – You, Federal Minister, bear the responsibility! Only a quote from this article: "The small areas are to be offered via the forestry farms, the farmhouses and the municipalities. In the large areas, the managers rely on newspaper inserate and the Internet." Federal Minister! That means under the line: We have a very large area in Lungau alone with 110 hectares. It is well known – and pleased for him – that one of the largest property owners in the Lungau is the second President of Parliament. It would not surprise me if he dramatically enlarged his property in the Lungau. I believe that one thing that has been claimed by many here will not happen: that the small farmers will be able to acquire the forest areas, but, as described in this article, the opposite will come true!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12418	The next speaker is Mr Schweisgut. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12439	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I welcome the fact that the Austrian agriculture – and especially the Austrian agricultural policy – has already taken the right path in recent years, namely the promotion of organic farming as well as small-structured agriculture, even though our friends always claim the opposite of the opposition. EU-wide support for mass animal husbandry and large agriculture has proved to be a fatal error in recent months. Austria, however, has already taken a completely different path since the beginning of the 1990s. The fact that Austria has not yet had a single BSE case proves that the Austrian agricultural policy has been correct in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, a rethinking has also begun at EU level, and it is now also being tried to understand the Austrian way of promoting a manageable and small-structured agriculture. I welcome the clearly recognizable support for rural areas in the budget approach, especially for small farmers. Similarly, organic holdings continue to be supported in a comprehensive manner. Also pleased is the fact that 8.2 billion schilling alone is available for the ÖPUL programme, as well as the introduction of a base amount for miners. This is particularly important for the federal state of Tyrol. On the budget estimate, however, I would like to point out that, for example, there are no budget allocations for BSE follow-up costs. These will have to be made available to small farmers through restructuring in the future. For the first time, this budget also provides for a sustainable reduction in funding for the Spanish court riding school. As you know, in the previous year we passed a law with the exclusion of the Spanish court riding school, in which the federal government has continued to know its commitment to the preservation of this institution. In any case, the Federal Government's support will last until 2004, but the objective is a sensible, economically balanced approach. A modern market economy, cost-covering and profit-oriented financial performance can also be expected and demanded from a world-famous, traditional institution such as the Spanish court riding school, which attracts tourists from all over the world. This economic objective also served to re-appoint management. The Spanish court riding school will certainly succeed in changing from an institution that is always financially dependent on the federal government to a self-financing society of public law. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] High house! Even if the laughter comes from a colleague who probably does not have so much knowledge of horses, I nevertheless take note of it. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is an inadmissible presumption, Mr. Cot.]] High house! However, I still want to address local concerns. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to ask you to make available to you part of the budget for rural development, which is still in the budget with 140 million schillings, for the urgent development of the imperial valley between Wildem and Zahmem Kaiser at Ebbs. The Kaisertal valley is a high valley in which about 40 people live, a large part of which are full-time farmers with their families. The reach of the farms and the agricultural pastures is currently only possible by going over 350 steps. There's no such thing as a valley connection to a street. This is an intolerable situation for over 40 citizens. In today's fully-technized and infrastructurally developed time, it is difficult to imagine the strata under which the inhabitants of the Imperial valley manage their farms and pastures. For decades the inhabitants have been trying to build a road, but this has not yet happened. At the same time, the Kaisertal is a nature reserve that needs to be preserved. Therefore, an development through a tunnel should be preferred. I can ask you to help realize this tunnel project in the next few years. Ten years ago, there were 25 percent more inhabitants in the Kaisertal. However, if there are fewer and fewer farmers in this valley, there will be no more management and landscape care. If the pastures in this area are less and less managed, this will also have a lasting impact on the nearby recreation area. Forest management and conservation of this natural jewel is also difficult to perceive without any development. The peasants in the Kaisertal valley are existentially threatened, and the beautiful Kaisertal is faced by the threat of non-management. Development also enables active nature conservation, and under "active nature conservation", I understand a solution to the waste problem and the disposal of wastewater. Even a multi-disciplinary attempt by the public to make public awareness of the problem has not yet been made. Mr. Federal Minister! I should like to ask you to help in a humanitarian gesture of the population of this valley and, at the same time, to provide a sign of nature conservation and of active agriculture. We must do everything we can to maintain the small-farmer structure in such areas for our tourist offer and thus also to advertise Austrian organic products and for our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12497	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12518	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Federal Minister! In your replies to the first round of the agricultural debate, you have carried out that 60 percent of the support comes from the rural development programme. That's basically right. But what has happened to me is the differentiation that these 60 percent of those you have spoken about are part of agricultural support and 40 percent are from the market organisation premiums. In a written response from the Budget Committee, you have informed us that the rural development programme is only three per cent available to non-agricultural holdings or areas, and that, Mr. Federal Minister, seems to us to be far too little, because the rural area – Mr. Schwemmlein has previously carried it out – is more extensive than just related to the farm. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! They have rejected the fact that the miners would "stand in the rain" at the moment, as one speaker said. Mr Schwarzenberger mentioned this in particular in his speech. It is only, Mr Schwarzenberger, that I do not know what you are talking about. I would like to point out that this mining promotion was actually a continuation of the mining programmes adopted in 1970, which are now being brought back to their real purpose, namely the support of farmers in the mountain regions. Mr Schwarzenberger! As an example of social staggering, they have just led the mining sector. You yourself are miners, not a big miner, and now I wonder: How do you, as a representative of the small miners, come to say here that the "Great" thing of social staggering is taking place in the mining sector? Where are the fruit farms? Where is social staggering in the market sector? Where is social justice, Mr Schwarzenberger? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And something else, Mr Schwarzenberger: They argued that the degression would begin at 80 hectares. I've got the "Agrar Post" of 14. ==References== "In the field of view" there is a column under which the author Georg Schwarzenberger can be read – I quote – a farmer with six hectares of land gets exactly the same base amount as a farmer with 100 hectares. What's right now? The degression from 80 hectares or from six to 100 hectares all the same? Mr Schwarzenberger! This is a way of discussing how I do not imagine it because it is not open because it is not open. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have already made many speeches, motions for resolutions and more on this subject of social staggering, and I would like to make the following request in the context of this budget debate on the agriculture and forestry chapter: [[Quoted print version removed]] For the members of the Freedom Party, especially Mrs Achatz, this is today the nail sample: You can agree to this request. I just remember the call of your former party president regarding "Marchfeld Prince" and more. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The Friedrich Peter?]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! Haider, I think it's your current old Another point, ladies and gentlemen, has already been discussed here: organic farming. This "agricultural post" was written after the Minister of Agriculture's organic programme was presented, and organic farming must also be oriented on the market. – In reality, these are the only ones that have always been in the market, in the interests of customers and in the needs of consumers. In order to make it easier for them to do so in the future, I should like to make another motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] You have the opportunity, Mr Schwarzenberger, to agree to this request, too, but I am afraid you will not do so. One question, Mr Schwarzenberger, is already pressing me in connection with animal welfare, with animal transport. I have a report from the "Full Week", No. 11/2001, in hands. This was about animal transport and the protection of animals in these transports, and among other things the VP-Farm Federal President Georg Schwarzenberger was also consulted. There you can read, Mr Schwarzenberger – and this is my question to you that you may be able to answer me or all of us –: A ban on animal transport would be similar to that imposed on pregnant women that they should stay in Austria. [[Call the SPÖ: Awesome!]] [[Abg. Sweamlein: This is an unfortunate choice of words!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! I think that is not necessarily comparable, and I would ask you to distance yourself from it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12649	The two motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. Mr Schwarzenberger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12676	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gradwelt has said here that I would have made different statements on the degression of rural development support. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Do not forget to breathe!]] That's not true, because a base amount means that all farmers get this base amount. That means the statement in the "Agrar Post" is correct. There is also a degression in the amount of land, depending on the number of points: If a farmer manages 20 hectares of steep areas, he will receive a higher charge there than if a farmer manages 2 hectares of steep areas. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Do not forget to breathe!]] There is still a degressive funding available here, but the base amount is from 6 hectares for all farmers, whether 100 hectares or 6 hectares are available. [[The red lamb flashes on the speaker’s coil]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12772	To those who have been made before or now in the context of intermediate calls? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] So please, my colleague, Mr Schwarzenberger, very briefly, the facts to be corrected and the facts to be dealt with – only I have already put the clock to zero. So take it easy, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12799	Mr Gradwelt has torn a section out of the context from the "all week". I was asked if I could agree that pregnant animals are no longer transported, and I said: The pregnant animals are transported from the farm to the pasture and back again, and it is primarily about being transported gently. [[Call the SPÖ: How do you get to the pregnant women?]] And in this context – in this context! – I said we didn’t ban pregnant women from driving by car either.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12839	Mr Schwarzenberger! I was not as strict as Mr Khol always wishes in actual corrections. [[Further calls at the SPÖ towards the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12871	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The environmental budget with 6.7 billion schilling is certainly a signal for a positive environmental policy, as I mean, especially if one is careful to ensure that not only the level is decisive, but in fact – as the Federal Minister has said – the efficient use of the funds is carried out. I think it is very positive that this environmental budget can also find appropriate approaches to renewable energy – support for biomass, wind energy, solar energy and even small hydropower. Finally, the development of the share of renewable energy in the new version of the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act is also set out in the ElWOG 2000 (in other words, the new version of the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act). I believe that the field of renewable energy is very important for the economy. This is a domestic renewable energy, and the technological status in Austria is excellent in this regard. Studies by renowned experts have repeatedly pointed out that the increased use of renewable energy will also be a positive development in the field of the labour market, i.e. the creation of additional jobs. If everything is so positive, of course the question arises: Why is renewable energy not booming, the renewable energy sector? – The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly that there is no cost-effectiveness in the energy sector until the present day. For example, I refer to electricity from nuclear power plants: a problem with certainly national effects, which cannot be solved at national level, but at the level of the European Union. Some think it would be the fight against windmills that would lead here. I still believe that the Austrian position in this context is always clear. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I agree to address the milker agreement that has already been mentioned today. – Minister of State! They have informed us of the further course of action, and I am glad that this conversation with Kavan has taken place, that an EIA declaration by the Czechs can be expected in the foreseeable future and that the public hearing will follow. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] The impression of the population, Mr Federal Minister, of the Temelin nuclear power plant is, of course, a worse one. I allow myself to pick out from the 16 known incidents of Temelins one that unfortunately has repeatedly occurred to God, namely the incident in connection with the turbine – a recurring problem. The impression of the concerned citizen is that such an installation takes place for so long until it is effective. On the part of the Czech Republic, an effort is being made to reduce this problem and to point out that this is only the secondary cycle. It is true that it is the secondary cycle, but the public’s concern in the end also leads to the conclusion that the primary cycle of the nuclear power plant or the core of the plant, for example in the field of the reactor, must be faced with problems that may be delayed for a while and are not yet visible. Federal Minister! I know that you are working on this difficult issue, and it is also essential and important that everything related to the Temelin nuclear power plant is made transparent accordingly. Disclosure of all design features, all calculations and an overall EIA shall be carried out. Federal Minister! Her job is not easy, it is a difficult one. We acknowledge your efforts and we will support you with the best of knowledge and with best action in your efforts to bring light into the dark here, so to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12935	Mr Zernatto has been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e12956	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! If one has listened to today's debate primarily on the chapter on agriculture, one can see that this discussion has taken place in a slightly different, differentiated mood than the discussions on some other budget chapters. It was characterized by one, as I mean – at least in most cases – high competence and a real commitment of the speakers. I believe that the differentiated attitude to this budget chapter and to this Federal Minister has a very easy-to-understand reason for me. There is, of course, a less clear target conflict than is the case with other chapters. This speaks for this Federal Government, and this is particularly true for this Federal Minister, who actually defines agricultural policy differently than some may want to see, namely, that it is actually holistic by seeking to achieve an agricultural policy, which, of course, is also, but not only agricultural interest policy. That is why it is possible to do so because, as I believe, policy objectives are defined, above all, clearly. This makes it easy to discuss also materially about one or the other, which comes about with the finding of a focus. The focus is certainly on maintaining and safeguarding the high-performance, but above all competitive, family-run farm. This is very closely related to the fact that this commitment to the farming of the family also makes it possible to achieve the second objective, namely to ensure structural and structural improvements in rural areas. It is not waste products, but almost necessary accompanying phenomena, that the protection of the ecological foundations is also a very essential objective of this policy and that the conservation of the cultural landscape is not only a recreational area for everyone in this country, but also for our tourism. Of course, quality assurance and the preservation of foods from agricultural production also play an important role. This brings me to a second point, which seems important to me: This agricultural policy also gives the farmers the self-understanding that, as I believe, they rightly call for themselves to be not only but also cultural landscape owners, but above all to continue to be producers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the point that we all who are not active in the agricultural sector must keep in mind, as I believe, that agricultural entrepreneurs are not, in the first place, references to transfer services – promotions, as it is commonly called – as is very often said, but that beyond the production of food, they also have to be performed immaterially, which logically must also be paid in a global competition in which these companies are. Federal Minister! That is why I would encourage you to continue your policy, to keep in mind those important objectives, and thus to create the basic principles that will enable farmers in our country to remain successful in the future in competition with agricultural factories, as they are elsewhere not always very happy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13010	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Weinmeier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13032	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by saying two things: It is truly gratifying that despite the strained budgetary situation, expenditure on the environment has succeeded in increasing by 38.5 million y and 530 million schilling in 2002 compared with 2001. It is also gratifying for municipalities and rural areas that, despite this tense budgetary situation, expenditure on urban water management has also been increased by 18.5 million y and 254 million schilling. It is also seen that this Federal Government is taking its announcement of administrative reform very seriously and is beginning to save itself, because administrative expenditure has fallen in comparison to this. A few words on waste management, namely the problem of disposable packaging, which has already been addressed several times today. We hear ever-frequent calls from the waste management associations about the exploding quantities in the field of disposable packaging. I'm showing a newsletter from our regional waste management association: "Alarm: beverage packaging" is stated in this newsletter. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] In addition, a few figures: Since 1997 to the end of 2000, the quantity of disposable beverage packaging has doubled, with a number from Lower Austria: from 9 300 tonnes in 1997 to 18 500 tonnes at the end of 2000. This is an increase of 450 000 cubic meters. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a senseless destruction of resources! The new packaging target regulation, which was adopted by 29. It is certainly a first step towards improving recovery rates and stabilising the situation that came into force last December. This innovation first implemented an EU directive, and secondly, it established general return rates for all disposable packaging by 80 percent compared to previously. I think this makes sense, because setting back quotas for each individual type of drink is certainly difficult to check. The quantities shall be fixed under this Regulation for the first time at the end of 2001 and then again after a period of observation in 2004. Therefore, after this observation period, it will be necessary to examine very closely how the success was. I also say quite clearly, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Federal Minister: If these goals are not achieved, then you have to think about a pledge in Austria too, as is the case in Germany at present. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now a few words on the environmental issue of EU enlargement. Although the environmental situation in the applicant countries is very different, it is very poor throughout. The improvements which have so far been made in the environmental field in these countries have not been made by measures and reforms, but mainly by the closure of some of the so-called big garbage slugs, as I would like to call these large heavy-duty plants. So it has not changed anything in the structure so far! I therefore believe that many enlargement euphorics are not yet fully aware of what high amounts will be required for the renovation. For example, I know from Poland that environmental investments are no longer being made at all in the field of waste management and waste water disposal, because the municipalities and regional associations are all waiting for this large filler with money from the EU. This alone shows how much expectation exists here among the candidate countries regarding EU funds and how little has been explained in the preparation for EU enlargement. Ladies and gentlemen! Failure to comply with the environmental acquis by the applicant countries will certainly have a negative impact on the environmental situation in Europe. Therefore, one will have to think seriously about transitional periods, just as the German Chancellor Schröder has already done – as I have taken out a press release today. But one thing I say quite clearly: In the end, these standards must also be met. It can't be that the transition periods can only be done through time and that nothing has changed in the end. We also demand that there be no distortion of competition among the new candidate countries. Mr. Federal Minister! I really ask you not to forget all your discussions in the EU, including with regard to EU enlargement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13101	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13122	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent months, for Austria's cattle farmers, due to BSE and the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in Europe, the most severe crisis in recent decades brought about both price and sales. Austria has put in place many precautions to protect agriculture and consumers. More than 48 000 BSE tests were carried out this year – all were negative. That we have no BSE case in Austria speaks for the work of the Austrian farmers and for the work of our Minister for Agriculture Wilhelm Molterer. Due to the uncertainty of consumers and the resulting decline in consumption in beef and veal, the Austrian cattle farmers had to purchase more than 700 million schilling losses between November 2000 and March 2001. On the part of farmers and representatives of interests, many initiatives are being taken to regain consumer confidence. Only with a corresponding increase in consumption will the price of cattle return to some level of time before the BSE crisis. However, the important measures will by no means compensate for the loss of income of Austrian cattle farmers. We need additional resources from Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance, in order to achieve some sort of income compensation. I understand that if you wait with concrete figures until the overall measure of loss of proceeds is actually established. We farmers, however, rightly demand that we do not have to solve the consequences of a crisis that we have not caused on our own. The European level is required to help. That is why I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to work for the use of the super-duty applied at EU level in the framework of the milk market regulation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The EU's medium and long-term considerations – such as individual farm quotas and ceilings on the special premium for male cattle – are quite positive. A land cover in agricultural production seems to be very useful. However, if one really considers it to be serious in Europe, one must go beyond the current proposal of the funding instrument; in order for it to become effective in countries such as Holland, for example, one will have to resort to other instruments such as water law. There is quite a lot to improve in the European agricultural policy, but it is far from as bad as it has sometimes been presented. In recent weeks and months there has been a great deal of discussion about the renationalisation of agricultural policy. For example, "renationalisation" means that we have to pay 100 percent of market regulatory expenditure ourselves; currently they are paid 100 percent from the EU budget. Austria is net payer. Let us think of the rural development programme with the environmental programme, the payments for the mining industry and the like. Austria receives around 10 percent of the funds at 2 percent of its production share. The renationalisation debate – and we must be aware of this – is playing into the hands of exactly those forces in Europe that really want to spend much less money on farmers. Starting money: Those who deal fairly with the farmers would actually have to sum up the EU budget and national budgets, and he would then insist that in Europe, in reality, only 2% of the funds will be spent on agriculture within the EU. The Austrian farmers provide a lot of services for society. If we all have to pay these benefits, we can't afford them. Our farmers provide high quality food and also produce a well-kept cultural landscape – both for local and foreign guests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Say thank you to the Austrian farmers, say to Austrian meat, say yes to Austrian food and say yes to this agricultural budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13192	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13213	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The situation in Austria's agriculture is currently underestimated by many. The crisis in our environment or in Europe also weakens domestic agriculture. We have problems in the field of sales. For me personally, who I have been active in agriculture for many years, I note that there are certain motivation problems with those in agriculture. Reasons are poor prices and, of course, falling sales on the markets. We are, of course, at risk of such crises as BSE and PPS as a whole in agriculture. Operating tasks there and there are the consequences of such crises. I am glad that we have a stable agricultural budget, which ensures a great deal in width and diversity, but at the moment it cannot cover all the damage. I was allowed to make a statement: It has already been mentioned here today about gifts for the farmers. This 2002 budget is a budget for agriculture, i.e. for the country and for the economy in that country, but it is not a farm budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Already the part for rural development, which accounts for at least 60 percent of the total budget, says that the agricultural budget sets impulses for the economy, for citizens and for tourism, in order to return to a stronger overall economic strength. The agricultural budget is therefore allocated to the general services and fulfils a wide range of tasks. My previous speaker, Christof Zernatto, presented this precisely and presented the achievements of the farmers accordingly. As a Tyrolean, I can see that in Tyrol, where livestock farming is typical, we had a 100 million schilling income loss for our farmers due to the decline in markets and crises in the first three months of 2001. If we look into the future and see certain limitations at present, we must say: The location is not good. There are no auctions, perhaps even if the foot-and-mouth disease continues to spread, problems with alpung and stocks of feed become scarce. Of course, our country's livestock sales are very, very important. I see problems coming to us in the future if the situation does not stabilise. I cannot understand the all-round demand that the cost of BSE testing and the elimination of risk material should be borne by the agricultural budget. It is clear to me – and we should act honestly and transparently – that: The consumer who wants to buy safe and healthy food must make a contribution to this! Financing only from the agricultural budget will certainly not be possible. I have to say: I am happy about the food agency, even if it was considered critical today and there. There all the forces involved in food production and distribution are collected and bundled. We want less bureaucracy, more efficiency and faster execution. Also today, the budget for organic farming has already been examined – sometimes critically –. 10 percent of organic farmers receive 20 percent of the public funds. The organic farming sector must be given a higher priority in Austria. We're gonna have to show up with a brand. I also wish that we could combine the bio-organisations in order to achieve a stronger market presence. The 2002 budget provides for a wide range of measures in the field of investment, bioenergy, processing, but above all in the field of education, which is also considered to be the capital of the future in agriculture. I would like to thank all the authorities who, in the difficult time now, are trying to support and promote agriculture. With the 2002 budget, we want to maintain the operating structure and secure jobs in sub- and downstream areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13276	The next speaker was Mr Kampichler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13298	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the context of this debate on the agricultural budget, allow me to express my satisfaction very briefly from the point of view of consumers, namely that Austria has remained BSE-free to this day, and above all that the security measures arranged by Federal Minister Molterer have prevented the seizure of foot-and-mouth disease in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! A praise has already been expressed: That speaks for our agricultural policy, especially for our health policy, and it is also a good witness to farmers! – As a non-farmer, I would also like to point this out in all cases. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] After all – and my preliminary or preliminary speaker has already pointed out – 49,000 samples were taken, and no investigation results were negative. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No positive!]] – No result was positive! It would have been very negative for us, of course, would have been positive. That's right! – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen! This is proof that our national crisis plan works and works! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The coming Easter transport will, of course, present a very special challenge to these safety devices. From this point of view, I would also like to appeal to the passengers that they pay very close attention to these safety devices and take them very seriously. However, I would also like to appeal to consumers that they operate their Easter purchases, which are now at the doorstep, where they can be sure that they are offered Austrian products and that they really cover themselves with healthy products for the upcoming Easter holidays! With this, ladies and gentlemen, you support the local economy, from the farm to the carnivorous. Our businesses are currently under very special pressure. They have special difficulties to deal with, and this, of course, requires our additional trust; that is, they are entitled to us using their products more intensively. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that, through his sensible action in the face of this crisis, Austria has really been seriously damaged! I wish him all the best for the future, and I wish that we can cope well with this crisis situation in the interests of all those involved.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13344	The next speaker was Mr Kurzbauer. The clock is set to 5 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13366	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2002 budget is a milestone in financial and budgetary policy. In this 2002 budget, no new debt is made after nearly 30 years! [[Abg. Grabner: The tomorrow newspaper is not yet read!]] In addition, this Federal Government has carried out three budgets within the last 14 months. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The 2002 budget has a decrease of 829 million y or 0.4 percent in gross domestic product, and it is also possible that we are talking about a zero deficit in the Financial Balance Act. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, in the 2002 budget, we are not just talking about figures, but rather about a sustainable and sustainable reorganisation of our finances. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] A sustainable consolidation of the budget is also the prerequisite for the implementation of the generation agreement, for financial stability, for the place of competition and, of course, also the prerequisite for having the necessary room for manoeuvre, the necessary free space in financial and budgetary policy. I'm convinced that I'm venerationful. Ladies and gentlemen, this new federal government will successfully implement its reform projects! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture and agricultural products have been the main topic of discussion in our society in recent weeks and months, triggered by BSE problems. This situation has been reinforced by various media reports, and this has made us all aware. It is ultimately about the safety of our food to the safety of our consumers. Thanks to the future-oriented agricultural policy of our responsible parties, at the head of our Federal Minister Molterer, we have managed to dissociate ourselves clearly from our competitors. Mr. Federal Minister! In the area of the Austrian agricultural policy, you are always a few steps ahead – the Austrian farmers thank you for this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, the 2002 agricultural budget also gives a clear commitment to rural and rural development. The range of measures provided for in Article 33 shall be a continuation and development of the co-financed funding activities of the Objective 5b areas. I would just like to mention a few priorities, the so-called second income column: It is about the marketing of agricultural quality products. It is about preserving the rural heritage and the development of the village. These are water-building and cultural measures, transport development of rural areas, the cultural landscape and, ultimately, the landscape. A main measure is the reorientation in the agricultural and agricultural sectors. There is the main focus. Around 43 percent of the funding is available for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The aim of these measures is to improve the income base of farmers and to develop and implement new ideas for products and services. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13415	Further word message: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. The watch is gladly set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13437	Mr President. Federal Minister! I have once again spoken, because I feel challenged by your appeal to our pride in relation to the Austrian agricultural system, but I am still making a few things clear from our point of view. Above all, I would also like to refer to our ability to self-criticism and appeal to you not only to find lip confessions and beautiful words, but also really targeting precisely at all levels, to run agricultural policy precisely in the sense of Austrian agriculture, especially as an environmental minister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Mag. Molterer! It is true that the programme of destocking which you strongly criticised, which I call for, which is the only possible form, is again due to agricultural surplus production in Europe on a human basis and also to an animal-friendly level. That's why we are! I do not understand why you refuse to implement this in Austria. Forget Please do not ask that all the social partners in the §-7 Commission have unanimously requested an Austrian stockpiling programme, Minister of State! Unanimously! We have 500 000 hectares of groundwater rehabilitation areas in Austria! 200 000 people in Austria have to drink pesticides - contaminated water at present! – There is therefore a need for action, so I do not understand that you do not want to take this stockpiling programme into account! We are now right to have a base contribution to mining promotion and a degression of 80 hectares. We welcome that. We have a degression in environmental promotions. Yeah, that's a real move, too. But we have no degression and no ceiling on market regulation expenditure. Federal Minister! That's just not consistent! I do not understand this, especially from the point of view that the large farms benefit 83 percent of their agricultural and forestry income from state transfer payments, while the mining industry accounts for only 67 percent. This means disproportionately promoting these large market fruit farms. I think it would be time to finally take action in this regard too. To the address of the FPÖ, to colleagues Wenitsch, Hornegger and Achatz, I would also like to make the following appeal: If you wish to highlight the European agricultural policy critically, you agree with us, we will jointly set up a subcommittee of the Committee on Agriculture and we will discuss the necessary changes to the European agricultural policy. Then you will insist that our concepts are very forward-looking. We need a clear positioning of organic farming in Austria. The goal: 20 percent organic farming by 2005!, is an indispensable must for us. In addition, we in Europe need a single market orientation of agricultural production and a stronger commitment to labour, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13488	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13509	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Our food industry is under pressure! The farmers, the processing establishments, the cooks and the cooks are insecure! Exaggeration is the recipe of the opposition all over the world, and a master of exaggeration is our colleague Pirklhuber. He says that 200,000 people have to drink pesticides - contaminated water. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Loaded!]] That's just a smear, what you're saying, that's not true. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – I will then explain to you outside where your mental error lies; Quite obviously, you've never been strong before. In any event, if we want to develop solutions from the market on these issues that are really urgent. And the market does not need hot air, nor crocodile tears, but simply progress. Neither competition nor price pressure can be abolished politically today. All kinds of costs still need to be met. Agricultural diesel would be a keyword. But I want to talk about another issue today, I want to talk about the development of control systems. In agriculture and the food industry, we do not need to ride-board drivers, no biodevitors, no dubious veterinarians, and no imitations. We farmers don't need all of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today, that means: Control from field to table. Quality production must be monitored, and it must ensure that the consumer can rely on the products to keep what they promise, depending on how much they are worth to the consumer. Control must show the producer whether he is right and what he can do better. Control only at the end of the road, in the final product, gives no answers on the way to the right decisions. We have shown in plant production how control in agriculture works properly. We have realized much of it in integrated production. The pioneer was the sugar beet, the pioneer was the quality beet. As an example, I would like to explain this to you today on the potato. In order for the Pommes Frites at McDonalds to gain their well-known crunchy quality, from the seed order to the final production, 126 decision-making steps are necessary, where quality-distorting errors can be made. They won't believe it, but most of these decisions are taken by the farmer, on the farm. Most of these decisions have to be documented, and the analysis shows where we produce the quality. The analysis is based on the progress and thus also on the pioneering of Austrian farmers in quality production. Everything has to be right from the field to the table. The most important thing is documented, and so our competitiveness is based. Of course, this competitiveness will be hampered by diesel taxation, but we will talk about it on the next occasion. The subject of control: The objective of control must not be shock, but the strengthening of the production routes. There is most experience in this area, especially in plant engineering, in the area of the Federal Agricultural Organisations, and the 50 million ye for this in the budget are really well positioned. There are forced internal controlling, modern cost management and corresponding efficiency improvements at work. The combination with food establishments offers the chance that this experience can be transferred to the entire food agency. Control must not be a means of control and not a means of control of the opposition! Control in agriculture, control without shock is service for product quality in the interests of producers and consumers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Our Federal Minister, Mr Molterer, who sets out Europe-wide agricultural policy in Austria, discussed with us, discussed with the farmers and successfully implemented it, presented a budget that we like and which deserves our trust. We'll agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13566	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. Member of the European Parliament, please start by replaying the allegation to be corrected and by contrasting it with the corrected facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13604	Mr Schultes claimed that the finding would be stupid, that 200,000 people in Austria must drink pesticides-loaded water. Mr Schultes, I am correcting your statement. According to the Water Protection Report, you will find that if you add the figures on the basis of the drinking water exemption regulation, you will come to the conclusion that at present 200 000 people consume pesticides-loaded drinking water!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13634	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur, Mr Speciale, want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the opinion group VIII of the Federal Proposal for 2002. This includes Chapters 60 and 61 of the Federal Estimate in 500 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group VIII of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Maier and comrades concerning: Condition of water supply of agricultural holdings in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gradwelt and Mr Comrades on the introduction of a social standard for the fair distribution of agricultural support. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Gradwelt and Mr Comrades on the promotion of organic farming in Austria by increasing the funding from the agricultural budget. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Advisory Group IV Chapter 11: Internals
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13737	We are now entering the debate on the consultative group IV, Chapter 11: Internally. There was no oral reporting by the Special Rapporteur. Mr Leikam was the first speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13804	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After a long debate on agriculture now on the chapter "inner security". [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The old guard is going through! Bravo, Leikam! We're happy!]] High house! People's safety claims have grown, the importance of the executive's work is increasing, so it is essential to have an efficient and motivated safety executive, which ensures the safety of people in Austria through their daily work. – That, Mr Federal Minister, was about your words in the Committee debate on this budget, and that would actually not add anything – if it were so! But this also includes, Federal Minister, taking our executive seriously, giving her the necessary know-how. But what is it like in this environment for our executives? Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This Federal Government is now in office for a little longer than a year, and it has already submitted to the National Council the third budget for decision-making – three budgets also for the chapter "internal" with serious consequences, serious consequences, I would like to say, for our executive: 1.3 billion schilling less in these three years! 2 000 posts saved, Minister of State! Hardly basic training courses for a corresponding youth at police and gendarmerie! An irresponsible reduction in the expenditure on property with all the consequences associated with it! Federal Minister! I'm firmly convinced: At the end of 2002 – by this date the three budgets that we have now decided – we will have the situation that, with your help, the budget will be rehabilitated, but that you will have demolded our executives! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your policy, Mr Federal Minister, is certainly not a security policy, it is an uncertainty policy. Never before, ladies and gentlemen, the frustration in the individual services was as great as now. Not a trace of motivated officials at all! I believe that we are all in agreement in this respect, because I assume that not only this situation, but probably all the other parties, is present to our Members. The executive officials, Mr. Federal Minister, are thoroughly uncertain. The reduction of around 2 000 planned posts in the three budgets available here in the National Council for decision-making is driving our officials to the limits of their loadability. Instead of the necessary information for the population, "moon basket", Mr. Federal Minister, who has issued you, "moon basket" releases for responsible senior officials who are trying to inform the public about it – what you should do, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Complementary and intermediate calls at SPÖ.]] They also do not hesitate to even prohibit personnel representatives from taking part in public discussions by means of instructions, and they take on board the staff representatives who express themselves publicly in the form that you identify internally against them, as is the case in the Burgenland, for example. [[Call the SPÖ: Unbelievable!]] Something else, Minister of State, which we all note in the last few weeks: Your answers to parliamentary questions are getting shorter and shorter. Their contention tends to be against zero. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Always the same questions!]] You don't want to tell me anymore. They do not want to say what is going on with security policy in our country. You're not saying anything. Federal Minister! To the same extent, this Their Party-politically motivated directions across our Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The absolute highlight: 15 Party-politically justified instructions alone in your core country of Lower Austria. – This, Mr Federal Minister, is a very bad style that you have taken up here. I'd invite you back to another style. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I have tried several times in the National Council to achieve an increase in the number of planning posts. The first request by Mr Leikam and Mr Comrades for an increase of 1 000 plantations over the next four years was rejected by the majority of the government. In the case of a new request, which I made here, your majority first prevented him from entering the committee at all – for six months you prevented it in the presidential! When he was in the committee, it was Member Kößl – clearly a post commander! . who, first of all, made the request to postpone this request, since, as honourable Member Kößl said, he would not be so urgent. As a post-commandant, he needs to know what situation the executive is in. The motion could not be dealt with again, ladies and gentlemen. It has been pointed out that there is plenty of opportunity in the budget debate to point it out. We have therefore made this request again. Another request will be made by my fellow Members from the Socialist Group today, because we believe that this is urgently necessary. What you, Mr Federal Minister, are still so stubborn about, namely that Your personnel policy, your security policy will not lead you to put together, or even disband, the individual gendarmerie departments and close police departments and guard rooms, you will not be able to reach with the staff you are currently at your disposal. You go here a very, very interesting way: They don't present themselves to your officials and say: Well, if we have to save 2,000 planning posts, then we also need to talk about structural measures at the individual departments!, no, that's what we're doing. You are not sending out your senior officials, starting with the Director-General, the General of the Gendarmerie, to the Regional Army Commanders, District Army Commanders, and they are supposed to do this work for you. I assume that you, like all of us, are reading the "Kurier." The "Kurier" has pointed out these abuses in a whole series in the last few weeks, but you have been silent. It will not go as you believe that you can maintain all these services without additional staff. One last point, Mr Federal Minister, where you also play a role that cannot be taken note of is the permanent discussion of a possible combination of gendarmerie and police. While you are always saying that this is not an issue for you – okay, that should be right for all of us – but the ÖAAB-Graz – an organisation that you may not know very well – and Mr Miedl is heard differently. There's a working group, I read in the paper, and there's to be discussed: Not only the police and the Gendarmerie are to be assembled, no, also customs guard, judicial guard, criminal service are still to be added. A guard, says MP Miedl. The media have reported in detail on this. The Free Federal Council of Hagen has made a similar consideration. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I always say: You can put that together! But then comes Mr Kößl, who says: No, it can't be! Mr Kößl, you should talk to honourable Member Miedl about this. You say that the President of the Court of Auditors is always bringing the paralyzing horse out of the stable! Now is not the time to discuss it! . I give you the right, Mr Kößl, that is also our opinion, but you should talk to your party friends, because they think quite differently and work offensively on such a development, only the Minister silences and lets his party friends work again. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! This leads to an uncertainty of the public, but also to an uncertainty of the officials concerned. Our task will therefore be to use all means – I emphasize: by all means! – prevent the disassembly of the Austrian executive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We of the Social Democrats present ourselves to the Austrian executive. We thank them for their not easy task, which your policy has made even more difficult.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13911	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e13932	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I was pleased that Mr Leikam is again the SPÖ's security spokesman, I thought he was better informed than Mr Parnigoni, but I have come to believe that in the time when Parnigoni was the SPÖ's security spokesman, Mr Leikam obviously did not inform himself at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Leikam has not even correctly compared the budget figures. He said that now around 1.3 billion schillings are less available, in reality exactly 90 million schillings are planned less. [[Abg. Leikam: In two years!]] In addition, Mr Leikam should not have visited a guard room for a long time, for he has said that the frustration is as great as ever, there is no motivation. Mr Leikam! You've vented the secret of where you've got this information. After all, you said that in the "Kurier" this would be inside. – Mr Leikam, I give you advice: If you prefer to go to the guard room instead of reading in the "Kurier" what the situation looks like with police and gendarmerie, then you will be better informed! Mr Leikam! The police and the gendarmen are not at all discouraged, but quite the contrary: It's all right as far as staff is concerned. It is also true of everything that concerns the matter. So your panic is completely wrong in the place. I can tell you this for information. Mr Leikam! If you do not do better than Mr Parnigoni, it does not matter whether Mr Parnigoni or you are SPÖ security spokespersons. I'd like you to know, not from the paper, but on the spot. [[Abg. Leikam:... Wiener Landtag!]] Leave the Vienna election campaign aside! [[Abg. Leikam: Wiener Landtag!]] Be glad you won there. In Carinthia, you won't win anything anyway, Mrs. Mertel. In Carinthia, you have no chance at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] You've lost pretty much in the Styria. As I said, Be glad that you have won at least in Vienna! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Your work here in Parliament is not due to the election victory in Vienna anyway. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: On your actions already!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government really has to save enormously, because, as we know, the socialist finance ministers – the last is sitting there – left behind a huge debt mountain. [[Abg. Edlinger: Do you even know what you're talking about?]] We only have to repay 100 billion schillings of interest per year. But you are not interested in this because you are no longer responsible, Mr Edlinger, but the Austrian taxpayers are interested in it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You know very well that we were the final light in the EU when you left as Minister of Finance, and now we've been back in the middle field. [[Abg. Edlinger: An absurdity is what you're telling! Stay with your performance!]] Take note of this instead of continuously patching around here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Stay with your performance!]] I'll stay with my performance. You don't need to be afraid. But you obviously exceeded your leader as Minister of Finance. Peter's principle has happened to you. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget has remained almost the same – there are 90 million schillings less – and thus the conditions have been created for the work of the resort to continue to be ensured. Above all, despite the savings rate, despite the generally high personnel costs, it has succeeded in keeping the foreign service on an enormously high standard both at the security guard and at the Gendarmerie. The Minister also said in an answer to a question that, in his office, neither a station had been saved in a police guard room nor at a gendarmerie post. So your panic and your insecurity are completely wrong in place. On the contrary: There have never been so many foreign officials at all. I will now also prove this to you by means of numbers: In 1999, there were 7 617 security guards, in 2000 748, i.e. 131 more officials. A total of 14 000 officials are currently on the street. [[Abg. Oellinger: That's why Vienna is safe! What did you do to the election campaign for?]] This will also do a great deal to combat crime, because the best prevention is the acute danger of being caught. What's wrong with you, Mr. Ollinger? [[Abg. Oillinger: Vienna is safe!]] That too many cops and too many gendarmen are on the street? I think that's absolutely right, because we want the security officers to be on the street. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It can also be seen that the fear of the panic, with which Mr Parnigoni has already begun in committee, has meant... [[Abg. Edlinger: But why are you afraid?]] I'm not scared at all! [[Abg. Edlinger: You said you were afraid on the subway!]] I'm very rarely driving on the subway at night. I'm going to thank God by car. But I know... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Mr. Edlinger! Don't worry about my fears. You are concerned about the fears of the Viennans who drive on the subway at night! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Vienna did not fear the SPÖ!]] You know, we already know all your methods. Insurance from A to Z: That's your policy! But I am convinced that this will certainly not bring you any votes with the electorate. [[Oh-noise and ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! They're only building on Vienna now. Mrs Mertel, Mrs Perfuss, you come from countries in which you have lost without a break. With this policy, you will certainly not giant. I'd like to tell you that too! [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] I would also like to say one thing: Despite the saving price, this federal government has been thinking – what former federal governments did not do – that there should be a duty of care for its officials. This makes something essential for the executives. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor stated that she would draw up proposals for legal assistance to officials who have been subjected to unlawful attacks. Now an official has to pay the lawyer himself, he has to bear all the costs at his risk. In the future, officials are expected to have either a legal protection insurance or a lawyer attached. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think it should be recognized that something will finally be done for the executives if they are attacked in their duties and have to defend themselves against them. Furthermore, a reform is under way in the context of the Guard Services Act, according to which in the event of such tragic accidents... [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Turn around!]] Mr. Cap, you're laughing at it! But two officials have been killed in the exercise of their services because they have been driving down a car in the noise of drugs. They would not have gotten anything on the legal basis alone. Only by the intervention of Mrs. Vice-Chancellor was it possible for the family members of these officials to be paid an amount. That is what is now being put on a legal basis. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The officials are grateful for this and, as has already been said, there is no mention of frustration at all. You know, you should also admit that despite the cuts in the budget, security policy will be maintained on such a standard as before. [[Abg. Edlinger: Three weeks ago it was exactly the opposite! You said that!]] Above all, it will not be saved from the officials, but it will be saved from the administration, where the officials can rather be denied. Take note of this! Take note of this positive security policy! [[Abg. Edlinger: Three weeks ago you said something else!]] No, I didn't say anything else! Where there's something I like, I'm called good, and where criticism is to be practiced, there I do. Take note of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e14247	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e14269	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I do not want to interfere in the discussion between Mrs Partik-Pablé and the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, who must have lost so much and had no electoral success. I didn't register in Vienna, so I can't make any contribution. But I can only say one thing: The Greens have won! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Greens have won – despite the demands, as we have often heard here, that this kind of policy we... [[Abg. Edlinger: Please, we too, Mrs Stoisits! We won too!]] The Minister of Finance is out of service! I didn't say this in agreement that you won, I just didn't want to interfere in this personal discussion. I would now like to turn to the Federal Minister and ask him what he says about the fact that the report of the ECRI, the European Commission against racism and intolerance, is – I can only quote from the media – ORF ON, but I assume that it was correctly reflected – that the conduct of police officers is at least an important point of criticism to minorities. Federal Minister! We do not know each other for long, because you are only briefly ministers of the interior, but at this time – or perhaps before – you have probably noticed that it is an essential concern for me to critically question the security concept that prevails in this policy in the truest sense of the word in Austria, because I believe that the definition of security by some politicians and sometimes by all parties spread uncertainty and fear in the population. That is why I would like to use the short speaking time available to me today, especially to make an appeal to you, an appeal that has important budgetary implications. The training of police officers, senior army officials, the staff of the Austrian security executives as a whole, but not only those outside their Service provided or – who says? – on the ground, but also those in the administration, i.e. the training of all these officials, in terms of sensitivity, reduction of prejudices, reduction of dubious behaviour towards members of minorities, in order not to say dramatically how it is often reported – I could bring you long reports, Mr. Federal Minister – cost money, but this money that is used for it does not have a concrete term in this budget. I do not want to say that there is no existence at all, but in the light of ECRI reports, given the CPT reports, as they come again and again, this seems to me to be a very important question, Mr Federal Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That would be a double success, that would be two flies on a strike, to say that now, literally, because it would be both for the protection of minority members, and for attacks, so to speak, at the end of the chain, as well as for the self-image and image of the executive, and for building up what we all want, namely to have confidence in the Austrian security executive always and everywhere, regardless of what we look like. It is clear that I personally or you personally, that the Members of the National Council are not exactly predestined to be exposed to abuses, because we all look like an average security officer – I think "average" in the statistical sense – imagines an Austrian. But, you know, you're different from that standard! The EKRI report also says that black Africans in particular are those people who are particularly affected by discrimination. Now I believe that security executives are not better people than others – that's my experience – they are, if you want, the so-called average, but the threatening thing, as I want to call it, is that in their general prejudices they must be better than the average. All that you, Mr Federal Minister, and what your predecessors – that has begun under Minister Löschnak, and the ministers of the Ein and Schlögl continued to do – have taken action in terms of training programmes for police, using this term as a short summary of all the executive officials affected by it, is supported by the Green Group. That is why, Minister of State, I am very sorry how you, as I was able to read in the paper, are calling special units or special commissions. I read in the newspaper that in Austria there is a special unit or a special commission – I can't say that exactly now – called "Taliban". This special unit or commission is particularly devoted to the problem of tow crime on the one hand and to those who are affected by this crime and by this phenomenon of crime on the other. Honestly, Mr Federal Minister, do you think it is particularly tasteful to call a special commission or special unit "Taliban"? I remember that – I think that was under Minister Schlögl – there was a special commission called "Jumbo". These "dedicated" are – under quotations – the intrusion of black African drug dealers in Vienna. I thought the times when there were such things would have passed, that these things had been dismantled at the highest level, but I obviously deceived myself, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As one of the last concerns, Mr Bundesminister, who admittedly has no direct budgetary impact, but who is extremely important to me personally and many colleagues in the National Council. It concerns the problem of firearms in private hands in Austria. Even if at the moment it's not in every mouth and not in every newspaper, it's more up-to-date than ever. Federal Minister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not want us to have to discuss again, as has been the case more often, what an accident can happen to it. It is very important, Mr Federal Minister, to say what it is – liberal and far too generous a legal situation, as it has been or is in place in Austria, that this essential question of security – and that the costs of security – is finally taken a step. The whole Green Group does not say to private-handed fist firearms, because that no longer brings security, but the opposite. [[New condolences with the greens.]] A gun in the hand of a private man or a private woman increases the risk – if you get into a situation at all to have to consider using it – and does not reduce the risk. To this end, Mr Federal Minister, a statement of your opinion here in plenary – you have already done so in committee, but not to my satisfaction – would be of particular importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e14342	The next speaker was Mr Kiss. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e14364	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I don't know where Leikam is living. By at least a year ago, I thought he was living in Austria. I wonder what he said today, but obviously he thinks this is Austria. In Austria – I quote only from his Suada – the executive would be demolded, there would be muzzler blazes, ruling in the Ministry of the Interior Party Policy and, above all, party book politics. Colleague Leikam, only for memory and as a small beginning in friendly replica: Of course, it's not true that the executive is being demolded, and you know that. It's also wrong that there are muzzles. And that party politics, especially the party book policy, is only quite unexistent under Ernst Strasser, all know in this House. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] Party book politics has existed in the Red Ministry of the Interior under one, under Schlögl and under Löschnak! That's what you're doing. Your master book written! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Anyone who comes from the field of executives knows: Once, among the socialist interior ministers, it was clear that the party book industry was facing the quality of the executive official, since the posts were occupied according to the principles of the party book economy. Now, under Minister Strasser, it's different. Remember this, write You're behind your ears, Mr. Leikam! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Of course, the colleagues of the executive themselves provide the best living daily proof of this. When I look up here and see friends, gendarmerie officials from the district of Neusiedl at the lake – I greet you warmly! – the day by day and night ensure that our country is safe, then I have to say: It is you and 30 000 executives who are providing an excellent service for the security of people in our country that are now in front of the curtain! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] By the way, Mr Leikam: With his interlocutory call Mr. Partik-Pablé had not been so wrong when he said that Austria was safe, replicated by the sentence that three weeks ago it had obviously not been done. Mrs Partik-Pablé! As an argument, Edlinger's call for call could be quite correct and therefore also based on the up-to-date. But if Leikam now says the same in the reverse sense, namely that a few weeks ago Austria was still safe, Vienna was still safe, and if he says today: No, this country is insecure, with Ernst Strasser in the Ministry of the Interior, the country is going an uncertain way!, then it makes at least the same argumentative volte that you have just assembled, colleague Edlinger. Is that true, or is that not? [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Böhacker.]] Under Ernst Strasser – and the proof of this has been given – Austria has become safer, and under Ernst Strasser – and this, colleague Toni Leikam, has only been shown again because facts count, and not suspicions and allegations! – but also under his predecessor Karl Schlögl, decisive action has taken place in the Federal Army. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Four figures for comparison: In 1995 the number of employees in the Federal Army's foreign service was 11 703. In 2000, it was 13,942. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is a plus of 2 200 army officials in the field. And on the inside, this development has been precisely mirrored. 1 081 officials were on duty in 1995; in 2000 it was only 964. He also implements the requirement given by Ernst Strasser. We save at the top of the central offices, and we want that at the base, in the gendarmerie posts, in the guard rooms, colleagues can really do their service for the security of the population. That's the right way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am not going to miss out on a particular accusation by Mr Leikam ad absurdum. He meant that under Ernst Strasser the Gendarmerie Posts would be closed, the guard rooms would be closed. But he's forgotten what's under Delete Nak, below One and under the castle has happened. From 1993 to 1999, dear Toni Leikam – and I say consciously: dear Toni Leikam; just remember! – there have been more than 200 closures of gendarmerie posts and shelter rooms, mainly in the eastern Austrian region, in rural areas, at the expense of the safety of the population. This has happened among the socialist, red interior ministers. And the counter-design of Ernst Strasser is the red-and-white-red ministry in which there is no party book policy in which there is no closure of Gendarmerieposten and in which there is no closure of guard rooms. Remember that, Mr Leikam! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs Jung and Mag. Schweitzer.]] Ernst Strasser goes the right way when he derails double tracks between the individual guard bodies and, among other things, says: Get away with the ballast of desk work! I want the executive to be no longer confronted with these annoying little things! – This is the way we support. Two graphics also show that what was said by the SPÖ to the budget is completely empty. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] I have a graph here that shows the share of the Internal Chapter in the total budget. The figures clearly, clearly and thus clearly show that the argument of the SPÖ is wrong, is not solid and thus goes into emptiness. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Worm and Leikam.]] Secondly, there is also a clear graphic – comprehensible, unmistakable, verifiable for everyone – as far as the development of staff and material expenditure in relation to the past years is concerned. [[the speaker shall keep another document up to date]] It has increased the area of staffing. The extent of the effort has become lower, and I can emphasize this particularly with regard to Schlögl 1999 and Eins 1996 in particular. Summary: Interior Minister Ernst Strasser provides security in this country. He's the red and white-red minister he promised to be. With him the population is safe, in him the executive finds a friend, and together with him I direct my thanks to the executive of Austria. And it is my promise, our promise by the ÖVP and the Federal Government: The executive can rely on us, and the population can rely on the executive!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e14538	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e14559	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The government programme of this Federal Government has clearly set out the path we are planning to take in our Ministry of Security. We have designed this government programme as a four-year programme, and we are consistently working out this programme year after year and with full force for the safety of Austrians. This is consistent, lasting work in the sense of security. And just as the 2000 and 2001 budgets have provided for, we also look forward to the 2002 budget: We are saving in the administration so that we can invest in people's safety, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This applies to the budgets, but this also applies especially to the staffing of our employees. And so it is very gratifying that the billing of the year 2000 has shown that as many employees in our security equipment have never taken care of the security of the citizens as they did in 2000. That's more than in the last five years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Contrary to all the suggestions, some leaflets, many rumors that have perhaps not been unconsciously put into the world: The year 2000 was the first year for years, in which no one plan post was saved on a gendarmerie post or in a guard room in Austria, but everything has been saved in the headquarters and in the higher batches. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The year 2000 has also been the first year for several years, in which no gender army post has been combined with another, against many announcements, contrary to many rumors, contrary to many predictions by some who do not think it very well with security and with the security device. This is also a clear change in the corporate culture in our house – and I admit it. Because what we want is that we don't work from any desk in the headquarters in the Herrengasse, or from any other place where things are planned for the security of Austria, but that we work them together with the officials in the guards, in the Gendarmerie Posts, in the District Army Commanders, in the State Army Commanders, with the police directors. I feel it is a compliment if I hear from Mr President-in-Office of the Committee on the Interior the accusation that officials can now work on new safety concepts. – Yes, this is a change in the corporate culture, and I am very much in favour of it because it will produce better results. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, the Interior also contributes to the necessary consolidation of the overall budget. Yes, I do! We confess to that! And it is also natural that this will bring about certain changes and has also come and should continue. But what we need to see very clearly is that we do not save on the safety of people, but that we will surely still find in our equipment costs that we can save, and we have found a whole series of them over the past year. It is primarily not about how high a budget is. It is primarily about how and for what money is spent. – This is true of a responsible family father, which is true of a responsible company leader, and of course it is also in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore, in the first year we had a very hard recovery course to take, because some debris remained from the previous government and from the previous ministers, and we had to react with some immediate measures. That is why we have rehabilitated civil service, which at the age of 25 has already been an old old lady, who now stands on new legs. This means that we can finally reduce the waiting list of 17 000 young men. We have already accommodated the 2,000 of them this year. We have distributed the rescue and therefore 100 million schilling can be carried directly to the Gendarmerie and the police budget. We have not yet been able to put into operation a building in Traiskirchen, which has been built on sand, because it is not finished. But we will – Pacta sunt servanda –, if it is ready for operation, of course have to take over this building because the contracts have been concluded by our predecessors just as they were concluded. And I also promise here that we will find a proper use for this building, even if our predecessors there have laid a difficult and almost unmistakable latte. We have not only brought about a complete change in the corporate culture at the ECIS, but also a reorientation in order to develop, for a necessary craftsmanship, which is to continue to be available to our officials, the necessary inner culture that is necessary in dealing with sensitive data. In the second year, we are now going to carry out the reform of our security device with great power and also a great deal of energy, bringing together what belongs together. We have decided to move forward and start with it at the headquarters. By amending our Rules of Procedure, we have taken out a hierarchy level, halved the twelve groups to six, we have reduced 47 departments to 46, and we have made sure that faster processes, faster transit times and overall better, direct supply and central control of our processes are possible. We will continue this reform by researching the police directors and the national army commanders. This year we have a major reform work in front of us, which we want to implement quickly. I also say very openly, Mrs Stoisits: yes, the expression "Taliban" was not the best idea we had. I would very much like to admit that here too, and the Director-General has already changed this. [[Demonstrative applause by Mr Petrovic and Mr Oellinger.]] However, we did not need any external inspiration. In any case, I am very grateful to the Director-General for having made this change immediately. However, a mistake of this kind should not happen to us very often, it was also said very openly. We are also planning a reform of the BKA, based on a discussion that has been held for over ten years, which we have achieved in ten months and which we are now implementing step by step and month by month. We have put in place a completely new training for our officials, which will ensure that police and gendarmerie will visit the same training modules together, because it is not understandable, for example, why a police officer in 22. District is said to have a different education than a gene arm, which does his work at Bisamberg. In this context, I would like to point out that police action is, of course, also repressive action in the last consequence, and it will always remain. But it is clear that it is precisely the exercise of the monopoly of violence, which inhabits police action, with great care, with the highest awareness of responsibility and full awareness of the respect and compliance with human rights. In recent years, we have invested very much in the admission, training and also in the training of our staff, which is now admired and respected as an Austrian way across Europe. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Böhacker.]] We will also continue very consistently with the 2002 budget, which is for discussion and decision-making, this path that is being saved in the administration and that can be further invested in security. That is why we have also released the reporting offices from the police departments and handed over them to the magistrates. Therefore, as an Austrian security device, we will take part in the administrative reform plans of the Federal Government, in particular the Minister of Administration, the Vice-Chancellor, because we want to take a further quality step in the field of motor vehicles, in the field of IT, in the field of radio and in the field of the merging of tasks that belong together. In this sense, I would also like to take up the instructions from the Commission on Task Reform, which has been in place as a basis for discussion for a few hours, in order to discuss them offensively in our House. We are on our way to a modern security service for the 21st century. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e14708	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e14729	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kiss has given a speech here that has almost struck a language when he spoke of a "red-and-white-red minister". Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you of the following: The Minister was in office very briefly, and he made a reform in the Ministry of the Interior. At that time he made four sections of five, and he installed two new section heads. Uniquely, one was his former cabinet chief, of course an ÖVP man, and the second was an ÖVP staff representative. – And that should be red-white-red?- Oh, my God! Mr Kiss! Let's dig in with such remarks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kößl: Think about it! 30 years of SPÖ personnel policy! I did it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of State is going through with a dome of black color and is brushing out the red everywhere. Then only more black-and-white-black remains. That's what's actually happening. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Haider-Partik-Pablé spoke to us here. – Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that your credibility is hardest shaken. This turned out after the Vienna elections. Whoever gives such explanations and then breaks his word from one second to the other, as you do, does not need to make other people's precepts here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I'm still allowed to inform you about the Guards' Aid Act. This achievement has been increased by the Social Democrats from one million to one and a half million schillings. You have claimed here that there has been nothing so far! That's just not right. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But it doesn't apply to these cases!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen: One thing is true, and one thing is certain: Three budgets have been adopted in these 14 months. And Mr Leikam is right: In these three budgets, in these 14 months you have retained the internal security of 1.2 billion schilling. That's a fact! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: You left us 2,000 billion schilling debts! In words, two thousand billion!]] [[Further calls.]] High house! Federal Minister! In these 14 months, you have succeeded in massively discouraging officials and the population. Even Your coalition partner calls you "death graves of internal security" in leaflets. ÖVP mayor – not red mayor, no, ÖVP mayor! – in Litschau, Reingers, Haugschlag and so on collect signatures against you, Mr. Federal Minister, because they are afraid of closing their gendarmerie posts. That's the truth! Not anyone else's insecure. Your own ÖVP mayors do this! That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: They are not against the Minister, but against the closure!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Federal Minister! You have to answer what's going on. And I am already excited – we are discussing the 2002 budget today – what you will answer at the end of this year and at the end of 2002, when we confront you with the fact that honourable Member Kiss has declared today – and you have said so too – that there will be no single army post and no single guard room closed. I'm already excited how you'll explain that when you go through what you're actually planning. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is also said. Federal Minister! In 14 months you have really done the motivation of colleagues. You've been successful. They have taken the career opportunities, they take out 1,000 plan posts, higher rated posts, so that they are no longer guaranteed. That's your old goal, and that's to say, many Indians who cost little, have little education. That's your goal. But that's not the way we want to go. I say that very clearly to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a further motivation shift, you plan to reduce overtime performance with the 2002 budget. That is to say, those officials who have outside service, who are in a criminal case, in a murder case, need to clear it up, the day and night, around the clock, on the weekend, Saturday, Sunday and otherwise always in use, take away the overtime benefits! This is, however, an essential part of the wage component for these officials. And not just that: This is a contribution to security in this country! And that's what you're doing, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! Finally, take the responsibility for the measures you have taken, which result from this saving price, which you so vehemently represent. I would like to give you an example of this saving course. It is discussed, and there is the problem that officials, including executive officials in particular, if they are sick for more than six months, must take massive cuts. One third of their references are missing, and additional benefits are also removed. [[Deputies Kößl and Mag. Mühlbachler: This is already done!]] – These are cuts up to 41 percent, my dear friend! Reductions by 41 percent! Ladies and gentlemen! Then I read in the "Kronen Zeitung" that the Minister of the Interior will fight for a better solution. [[New calls from honourable Members Mag. Mühlbachler and Kößl.]] That's in the "Kronen Zeitung". Federal Minister! I remember: They once voted against the government in the Federal Government, namely when it came to the Semmering Base Tunnel. That's where you were, man's enough, and you've been standing there, and you've fulfilled Mr. Pröll's mission. But you agreed to this law. You don't care about the officials! – That’s the truth, Mr. Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A small example, Minister of State: They don't even want to make the money available, which is necessary for police who are equipped with old, bad pistols woodens to get new, which has even led to the recent attack of a policeman by a culprit. Since the gun is very easy to pull out of the holster, the attacker has brought the gun and shot the officer in his leg. They have also made no money available for it – and are not prepared to fight it from the Minister of Finance – that those general army and police officers who are injured and are entitled to pain benefit are being charged with this pain. That's where you'd be asked, Minister of State! [[Abg. Kößl: We have called for this for decades, and the SPÖ ministers have not done so too!]] Federal Minister! In order to eliminate part of these "grievances" which you are responsible for, which you have not prevented in the Council of Ministers, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is where the ÖVP and FPÖ now have the opportunity to prove whether they are behind the colleagues in the security executive. Ladies and gentlemen! Now you can prove whether you are really acting for the police and for the gendarmen. - We'll do that.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e14952	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Parnigoni and Mr Genossins is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Egghart spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e14976	Mr President. Federal Minister! I believe that a security debate should be conducted relatively objectively, and it is in the public interest that we do not polemise these issues. I think, under the leadership of Ernst Strasser, a lot of things have happened very properly. A structural reform has in particular been undertaken. But also at international level, Ernst Strasser has done a lot. I would remind you of his prelude to the fight against drugs or its criminal prevention in the international framework. I think these are things that can be seen. It is also particularly interesting that something has been done against right-wing extremism just under the black-blue government. This can be seen from the short statistics published by the Ministry of the Interior on the development of external and external crimes. One has to say this quite clearly: These activities have gone back in Austria to thank God, and this is certainly due to proper police surveillance. Federal Minister! I think it is necessary to deal with some things that may lead to a legend. I have selected some data from the Federal establishment plan. There are a few things you might need to clarify so that you don't believe there are no structural measures, and the officials are being picked up by the street. I noticed something special, and I think it would be necessary – in the interests of the people, also in your interest and that of the coalition – to explain why, despite the construction of the BKA, which is certainly very positive, there would be a loss of 60 posts at the KRD, since drug crime has increased in Austria, especially the number of drug deaths. In any case, it is not clear from the documents that you are opposed to it. I think it would be necessary to explain that. It would be equally necessary to explain the savings of 146 people in the E-2b posts in the establishment plan, which concern rather the simple police officers. These are things that are particularly important to us in Vienna, because there are even closer problems and networking here, precisely through the higher rate of crime. I think we should bring this to the people and explain to them why this has happened so that we do not give the opposition any room for manoeuvre. I notice that the SPÖ always demands what it has not done under its ministerial responsibility – despite leaving behind a disastrous budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15023	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15044	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It has always been remarkable when you imagine the nuances between the coalition parties in this House a little bit. [[Abg. Kiermaier: Swap baths!]] – You sometimes have the impression of changing pools. Just a few days ago, I saw large posters about crime in this city – by chance always next to the aliens’ posters – and it said: I, too, want to live, as if this circumstance in this city were at risk. I mean, that was quite clear as a rather massive accusation to the Federal Minister, and I think it has arrived. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Crime is also high!]] Crime is at a very high level – that is to say, still a very harsh and genuine criticism of the Federal Minister for the Interior. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... socialist! You can't wrap the world in a year!]] Federal Minister! You have not only been very fond of this Vienna top candidate, who no longer remembers this short phase, but you have not only received very strong criticism from this side, but also from the Carinthian head of state, who meant that he was a redr even better than a black man, so to speak, who is supposed to be a former civil servant on the left. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why?- Oh, my God!]] In so far as I believe that you will not be so easy with the claim to be a red-and-white-red minister on the one hand – a claim which Mr Kiss has quite rightly set up – and on the other hand, a minister who will at least be trying verbally here to get a little blue in color. – I hope you will resist these temptations, Federal Minister. In the context of the announcements you have made, it will be important in the future whether you really have the force to enforce things that would clearly be right, which could lead to an administrative reform and would contribute to a substantial discharge of your resort, also against the resistance to enforce the ideological resistance of the coalition partner. They have joined the public with the proposal to harmonise the right of residence and employment in the field of labour migration. This would be most useful if administrative costs were to be saved in three-digit millions and the officials of your resort would be substantially relieved. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! Since this proposal was made, it has become very quiet. Rather, it has been strongly criticized by the opposite side – that is, by your partner – this proposal. I think it would be high time to take it up again and implement it in the sense of a proper, economical and efficient administration. Mr Bundesminister, a second example: Civil service. – My colleague Haidlmayr has often pointed out the vital importance of the service of civilians. You said civil service was renovated, but we had the rather impression that this is a very unbearable Rosskur. And I am now taking away the media that there is an action against the Republic of Austria in this respect, so that legal certainty is by no means guaranteed. I think it is high time that clarity was also created in the field of services, at a uniform and a higher level than is currently the case in the lower areas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My colleague, Teresa Stoisits, has already commented on the confusion in the matter of special units and their very strange nomenclature. I thank you for bringing clarity here, because I really believe it is absolutely unbearable to link the name "Taliban" with any Austrian administration unit, because this regime, these people really don't deserve to become a model somewhere. But I wonder at all – and with this I come to my last point – which imagination prevails in the field of name finding in your office when I think of the radio system ADONIS. This name is less worrying than the name "Taliban" in connection with the special units, but I think that must be a really beautiful system when found officials come upon such a name. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Boy: You must be worried!]] Federal Minister! This brings me to my last point, with which I am really serious. I assume that this point is also at your heart, namely equality between women and men in the field of executives. Mrs Bauer, too, has called for more rights for women within the executive framework, especially in the management functions, in connection with an abuse case, an infringement case. My question to you, Mr Federal Minister: What has happened since then, and above all what active steps do you take in this context, in order to occupy, especially in a rule of law, special units that do not act in the safe way of control, in such a way as to make any kind of male-Bundish procedure impossible by the parity of the sexes? The tomorrow edition of the "Kurier" I take from the fact that the chief of the WEGA says: The WEGA is open to women. If a colleague recruits and then meets the strict admission criteria, I am delighted. – So I have to say, Federal Minister, that will be too little in terms of equality, the joy of Mr Brigadier Brinek, but here it will need an active action. Equality does not happen somewhere and especially in an institution such as the executive, but here there is a need for a targeted equality programme, here there is a need for a promotion programme, here it is necessary to encourage the staff of the institute, especially women, and here there is a need for training for women and men, so that equality, of course, becomes a matter of course, also within the framework of executive reality and practice. Become a coalition partner They are likely to have to fight some ruptures in this context too.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15170	As the next speaker, Mr Puttinger is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15191	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to devote myself to my real topic, to the extent to which the economy plays a major role in the Ministry of the Interior, but there are some things I have to deal with first. Mr Parnigoni just came in, but until a minute ago I knew why it was two of the Socialists. Security spokespersons – and the second one has just come in – are there: so that they can alternate here. But one thing you can say, Mr. Leikam: The "charge" fell down when the Minister of State said what's going on if you just want to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] And, Mr Parnigoni, one thing I have to say to you: What you want are many "headers" and less security on the street. This is not our way of working internally! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: You have something against Indians!]] Mrs Petrovic! One also to you: If you are talking about harmonizing residence permits and working permits, you also need to know that something has already happened in this respect. Since June there has been this decree of the Minister of Economic Affairs. You know very well that there is already a study on this. That means we're working, and we're not talking about what should happen. I would like to say that so that you can speak a clear language here as well. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The internal budget chapter is characterised by a high efficiency in that, despite the decline in the overall budget, it has been completely out of the question that it has fallen if the overall budget is also increased in percentages at the end of the year, by reducing the administration's ability to make appropriate improvements in the security of our fellow citizens and to have more security on the streets of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is possible for the first time, thanks to God for the first time possible after 30 years of socialist and social democratic rule! Under our Federal Minister Ernst Strasser, who manages this department and understands how to work economically and efficiently, Austria is as safe as ever. [[Abg. May. Worm: 30 years of social democracy!]] Through its consistent attitude in the analysis, in the goal and at the end also in the implementation, he succeeded in abolishing double conductivity. He privatized, cooperated, organized, systematized, introduced modern techniques and structured new ones. In the following, a few small examples. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... the civilians!]] Yeah, of course, I'll be right there. [[Abg. Parnigoni: So much time do you have?]] One example is the privatisation of flight rescue. The goal of the Federal Government, a concentration of state services on the core functions and a outsourcing in particular... – My goodness, you don't know that?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Worm: What is that?]] I am sorry that you are Members and do not even know what a core function is. So there's already a lot missing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will take full account of this. And at the beginning of this year... – Listen! [[Abg. Parnigoni: That would interest me now! Explain the core functions to us!]] If you don't know, it's even worse. At the beginning of this year, the tasks of the federal government in the field of air rescue were transferred to a private carrier organisation, the ÖAMTC, which you will know. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No, they don't know, just the ARBÖ!]] At the same time, not only 23 plan posts could be saved, but also a restructuring of the flight police. Quality improvement without additional investment is that, ladies and gentlemen, dear. Now I'm coming to civil service. I know today's newspapers say there's still trouble here. That is the right thing to do, and at the end of the day the organisations will have to improve. [[Abg. May. Worm: Bathing out!]] But it has taken account of the economic needs of the civil service sector. What has been successful in this area? – An administrative simplification, a predictability for civil servants and support organisations, a reduction in residues, more autonomy for the support organisations, also a possible requirement for civil servants against full cost replacement, benefits which the civil servant can take advantage of, paid by the institutions. [[Abg. May. Worm: Disparity treatment!]] – These are economic arguments that you, too, cannot pass by at the end of the day. What happens in the future? – Teleinfrastructure will be renewed. The entire telecommunications infrastructure is integrated into today's BMI data network. A single voice data network will be created. The creation of a corporate network will lead to a significant reduction in phone and service charges, taking into account, of course, economic efficiency in the areas of procurement, facilities, management and maintenance. I think you all know that it is equally important to introduce the ADONI project. [[Abg. May. Worm: EVA wouldn't be bad either!]] The call for the consultant is now under way. Yeah, if that doesn't make sense, I'll ask you what else you want. Aid organisations can work together optimally to communicate rescue, fire brigade, executive, military, judicial and customs guard. There will be a uniform radio standard. This is a goal pursued by the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Is that part of the core competence?]] These were just a few examples, Mr Parnigoni. - Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Like a chameleon he moves: He reflects all the colors and does not even know what he is talking about. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These were just a few examples; I could mention many more. I am thinking of the integration and disseminating of the Mass Fund. I'm thinking about the reorganisation in the car area. I am thinking of the restructuring of staff, which the Minister has already mentioned today. High house! It could be further and many examples, but all examples clearly and impressively show how efficiently the Ministry, the Minister and his staff operate with the resources made available in the budget for the Interior, how modern and economical they deal with it. Finally, we see the Minister coming from the private sector. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes!]] And he shows, ladies and gentlemen, how to clean up a budget on the one hand, and on the other hand, how to increase the safety of Austrians on the streets. Austria is as safe as ever!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15434	Mr Gaál has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15455	Mr President. Federal Minister! It has already been said a lot of basics today, and I do not want to add anything for the time being. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Oils.]] But allow me to address two detailed topics. Civil protection in the sense of comprehensive protection of the population. We have established – and with "we" I mean the Federal Association with nine national organizations together with the Federal Ministry of the Interior – more than 1,600 self-protection information centres throughout Austria, in which we inform, advise and train the people in all matters of civil and self-protection. We are in the process of developing these centres into information and service facilities for the citizens who are also threatened by everyday threats. And this is particularly important in terms of temelin, especially, in order to address a current topic. The fight against Temelin continues, and I say: As long as only one nuclear milestone at Austria's borders is in operation, the information on this subject remains the command of the hour. In this context, it is particularly important to anchor the preventive idea of the population more closely. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Oils.]] We are working here as an extended arm of the Ministry of the Interior, and you have provided the necessary financial resources for the reorganisation of these security centres in order to build a network of citizens close to them that creates trust and security. I would also like to thank you here, Mr Federal Minister. Similarly, for the support of our second child safety team "Safety Tour 2001". These events will again include thousands of children at the district and country level throughout Austria; the Federal Final will be held on 19 June. ==References====External links==* Official website We are again expecting a record participation that puts all that has so far been in the field of children and safety in the shadows. That, Mr Federal Minister, was the happy part of my speech on the 2002 budget, Chapter Inner Affairs. [[Abg. You can't do anything else!]] Now, however, I have to say some unsavory things. What makes me very worried and unsatisfied, Minister of State, these are the rigorous saving measures of the Federal Government, which – it has already been said today – do not stop even before the executive. [[Abg. Young: Save all of us, even the SPÖ!]] Dear colleague, young! If you're silent, you don't look old. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] So do your name all the honor and listen to me a little! Of course, these savings measures also have an impact on Vienna, and I am particularly concerned about this, Mr Federal Minister. ==References====External links==* Official website District, said – and the newspapers have also reported about it –: The safety must not be saved! Here we are with you, Minister of State! But this is not the case, you only need to look at the deterioration of the planning situation: Security Guard Vienna: in 2000 a minus of 55 officials, 2001 a minus of 100 officials, 2002 a minus of 150 officials. In the uniformed police, there will be 300 planning stations less. These are 600 security guards across Austria. Even more dramatic is the situation at the actual staff position, Mr. Federal Minister: a minimum of 233 security guards. For 2002, further redundancies in similar sizes are to be feared. Therefore, it is justified if we demand Vienna: no saving at the expense of the security of the Viennans! Federal Minister! I mean, not easy to say, I prefer a deficit in the budget to one in terms of security, because the security must be more valuable to this government. Saving security means saving in the wrong place for me, because the budget cuts are at the expense of security – and security is falling in real terms, Minister of State. The citizens don't feel so secure either. That is, the subjective sense of security is also affected. We now have to expect a further 3 per cent reduction in planning positions for 2002, and if this is actually implemented, we will be eligible for the first time under the 10 000 margin at the security guard. Mr Federal Minister, I mean that this reduces the external presence of security guards. And a shift, as you say time and again, from the interior service to the field service, I think – I like to be taught to a better person – is simply not possible to this extent. Therefore, once again: The protection and safety of the population must be safeguarded. I believe that the budgets to be expected in the next few years are not a guarantee. We are still a safe country, yet Vienna is a safe city, and in the field of security saving is the wrong signal and therefore does not find our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15527	The next speaker was Mr Jung. The clock is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15548	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A call by Mr Pirklhuber from today's agricultural debate: "Don't start again, Mr. Pumberger, otherwise you'll get another one on the roof!" [[Abg. May. Saviour: That's great!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] This is from today's Minutes, Mr President, you cannot deny it. It is immense how already in this House the Greens are calling for violence! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] You have a certain monopoly to practice violence on the street – but not in this House! We will not allow that, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But this expression is significant for the sluggish acceptance of lawbreak to physical violence when it comes from the left and if it is directed only against the governmental parties. These states must and will find an end in this country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: Especially in the elections!]] Faust and stone from the green area must not replace the political arguments! And this is where the beginnings will be defended! [[Abg. Oillingers: At the elections!]] This has already begun with the children. When people's students enter a gym, show them pictures of government members and raise them against them, saying: These are the evil ones. These are the evil ones. – it happens in a Vienna school under a SPÖ director – then it is immense! It is thus already beginning from the sides of so-called educators with the hatred of children and young people. That too must and will not go on that way! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If, instead of a political argument, a child is said: Then your mother has an evil boss!, then that is not political education, but simply a community! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Intolerance and hatred are not only given if they are directed against the left. Also, against the right, and against the right, is being heated on the running band and carried out intolerantly. [[Abg. Oils: Where? Where?]] And you, my colleague, are not least one of those who support it. It must not and will not be tolerated anymore, for the verbal violence goes over to the doings! Hakenkreuz-Schmierer, the FPÖ-Placate "verierten", is not included in any statistics for left-wing radicalism, but it is high time that it is done more precisely here, because there must be and there will not be two sizes according to which it is measured! [[Abg. Oils: What does that mean?]] Radicality on both sides, no matter where, will have to be fought and fought! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So far, only no one has seized these perpetrators, but constant toleration suppresses the awareness of injustice. And that's what you're working hard on! And then comes the next step: They're storming party venues. – As it has been in the 1930s, not yet in this Republic. But it goes even further: The next step is physical violence against people, against visitors to election events, against women. There was an incident in my district where an elderly woman visited a doctor because she was beaten in the face, beaten by three young people in front of a school because she had reproved her for tearing up posters. These are the conditions that happen here! [[Abg. Parnigoni: What does that mean? What do you mean, Mr. Jung?]] We have photos of someone who was attacked after a school ball by left-wing young people because he said he was for the FPÖ. – These are the conditions you want to bring! Do you know what a collar foot is, Mr Parnigoni? – Mrs Petrovic knows that she was at the last opera ball demonstration. A collar foot is a sharp curved metal piece that you used to shoot at cops. She then said to an official who walked around with a wounded face: Well, it wasn't that bad! The official has kept the nerves of God and said: No, I just cut myself when I shaved! These are states you don't condemn anywhere. I haven't heard a conviction from your side in this direction yet. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You didn't listen to that!]] You're still defending it now. Where did you get away from it? Tell me! Where did you get away? No wonder that in recent weeks the number of violent threats against event participants and physical assaults has increased. It must come so far in Vienna. I can show you the photos if you don't believe it. Ask Mrs. Partik-Pablé what was sent to her. For example, you can look at this photo if you want. But this also applies to Thursday's demos, especially if they hurt the banana mile. – It is time for these things to end. I have here a Supreme Court ruling expressly saying that the ban in the case of the Bannmile is not an issue of discretion. This is not a matter of the desire of the master of the house or of the President. It must be stepped in. In future, we will call for a more stringent approach to law and law. The perpetrators must note that Austria is a rule of law and it is not a playground for heated young people and their late-pubertary leaders who believe they can speak 68 times again. This time is over! But time is too ripe to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15710	Mr Parnigoni spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr Deputies, you know § 58 para. 2 GOG. Start playing the claim to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15734	Mr Jung claimed that I would not have distanced myself from violence. [[Abg. Young: "You" I said!]] Yeah, okay. I speak for myself and for social democracy. They claimed that we and I in particular – I also felt addressed – would not have distanced us from violence. I'm correcting: I have just explained from this point of view in the discussion on Mrs Vice-Chancellor's statement that social democracy has always been opposed to violence and does not recognise violence as a political means!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15770	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15799	Mr President. Minister Chief! Minister Böhmdorfer! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Pumberger, don't worry, no one can give you one on the roof, you don't have a roof on it. You don't get on the hat either, because you don't have a hat on. Don't worry, nothing happens to you in this house! The only thing that happened was a breach of your colleague, Praxmarer, on our fellow Members. That was a physical attack. That was the only one I've known in the last 30 years. Let us leave it with this, and let us see that neither Mrs Praxmarer nor anyone else can exercise physical violence on other Members. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Strasser's budget. Mr. Strasser, you said in your statement that, I quote, you had "rehabilitated, for example, civil service, which at the age of 25 has already been an old lady of old age". Dr. Strasser! You would have to know that civil service is not female, but male, and a woman of 25 years is not an old lady, but that seems to be your speech style. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is really very "loving", Mr. Minister, that you can still laugh about it. I can't do this if I look at how it is in civil service. [[Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer speaks to the Federal Minister of State Dr. Strasser, who is also sitting on the government bank.]] – Minister Böhmdorfer! Capabilities Please be so kind and let Mr Strasser listen, otherwise he will tell me again the next time: I didn't know that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Achatz: One on the roof!]] Please be so nice. Thank you. Mr Strasser, so that you can't say that next time, I didn't know everything, I'll tell you what's going on in civil service. The civil service novels it has been since 1. January 2001 is the biggest attack on civilians since there has been civil service, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It is the total migration of the law, in which it is said that civil service is a military service, an alternative service to the presence service. – Minister! It is no longer civil service, but it is only a matter of survival for the individual. Today, Mr Minister, it's all about: Can I afford it? – Of course you do, no question! But can a civil servant afford to make debts in order to be able to do civil service? Does the civil servant possibly have a social network? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger is at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Dr. Strasser.]] Mr Pumberger, please leave the Minister alone! I don't want to hear from him again. I didn't know! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If today a young man has no social network, no family to feed him for twelve months, then he cannot do any civil service because he simply cannot afford to do so. You, Mr. Minister, know much better than I do that no person can buy food for one day by 80 s – and it receives a large part of the civilians for food per day. Ask your colleague Puttinger, who is a gastronomy himself, which costs him three meals! Mr Puttinger! If You can offer three meals by 80 s, then from tomorrow all civil servants in Salzburg will come to eat to you. Then you are the only gastronomy who can do this – and for that you can You're becoming famous! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But, Minister Strasser, you don't want to know how civil servants are doing, you don't want to know! I'm so proud that today the first civil servant filed a complaint. I am very proud of the fact that civil servants do not continue somehow to beat themselves, to make debts, to burden families, but that they are fighting. All civil servants have my 100% support. I am glad, Minister, that after this case has been filed, you can no longer say: I didn't know! – You know everything, Minister, but you do not want to know. You don't seem to want to know anymore that you were even civilians. Minister! At that time, when you were in civil service, more was paid to lunch breaks per day than 50, 80 p. Don't say no! Look You sign up to the Civil Service Act, after which you did civil service, and then you'll see that it was different at the time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! If you say the facilities have to take care of now, I have to resist this: The facilities cannot be cared for! A facility that has three or four civilian servants today cannot build a kitchen, can't cook and can't care for civilian servants three times a day. I just can't do that. If you, Mr Minister, are willing to finance the cooks and the kitchens, then it could be, but I have never heard a word from you. Give the civilians food! Civil servants are state servants and have a right to eat properly three times a day. If they cannot, as is the case at present, then there is no single institution responsible for this, but you and only you, Minister Strasser! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Strasser, just to show you what you are talking about and what matters: They say how good civil servants are. Today you have told how great it is for the police, what you don't do for the police and what improvements You've reached. – That’s just not true! If a cop gets sick today, drop him like a hot potato. That's it. If he is ill for more than six months, he will be deducted from 30 percent of his income. Minister! That is reality, and you have to face this reality. You too have probably received the letter of one of the Lords who is seriously ill and now only because he is sick, suddenly gets less than 7 000 s per month. Minister, this is your responsibility! It's your responsibility that you treat cops who are sick so miserable.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15903	Mr Pirklhuber spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, I would urge you to begin with the replay of the allegation which has to be corrected and to compare it with the corrected one.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15935	Mr President, I will make an effort. Mr. Jung – he is now, I believe, not present in the hall – has claimed that my words had presented a call for violence. I'd like to make the right point. Of course, the election debacle of the FPÖ was meant during the last elections. I have noted that You will get another on the roof if you continue to argue only with intermediate calls and do not respond to the arguments of the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15966	That was the actual correction, Mr deputies. The next speaker was Mr Kößl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e15990	Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni is not here now. I would have liked to tell him that as a police officer, as a general army officer, I have 30 years of SPÖ personnel policy behind me, and I could write a book. You can believe I don't think there's been any dissidents in the Ministry of the Interior anymore. Now to the 2002 budget of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! This budget offers no reason to make a drama out of it, and it is objectionable that you untruely insure people by untrue broadcasts. I'll tell you if You want to hear this or not: The security of people in our beautiful country will be guaranteed as long as there is an Interior Minister Strasser. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm reading to you now: "It is true that we and I, too, expressly recognize the budgetary consolidation of the Federal Government and, of course, the Ministry of the Interior cannot be excluded from fiscal consolidation." Do you know who said that? – The former Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Eins in the 16th century. A meeting of the XX. legislative period. On behalf of Mr Leikam: Mr Leikam said: "I give you the right, it has not been easy for officials in the last 2 years to deal with their tasks, because the interior area was also involved in budget consolidation. There was a need to reduce plans... There's been a shift of officials. On the one hand, planning posts have been saved at the executive, police and gendarmerie, but on the other hand, these planning posts have been created especially in the border service." Do you know how many planning sites have been saved? – In two years, 649 officials were saved in the operational field – gender army posts, transport departments, criminal services. And another quote from 23. April 1998: "As far as the efficiency of the executive is concerned, Schlögls has had a positive impact on the merger of gene army posts. Schlögl noted to the staff level of his department that the Federal Estimate currently provides for a savings of 200 officials." And that's how it goes! If you make yourself here and say that the world breaks together when you think about where you can save efficiently in the administration, then I have to note that this is actually unheard of. You have to say that clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If, today, Mr Leikam again calls for 1 000 planning posts to know that we have to consolidate a budget with 1 700 billion schilling debts and 100 billion schilling interest rates, then this is not responsible to the young people. I think it is important that we look at where we can change structures and increase efficiency. If there is still a need for staff, there will be, as I mean, hardly anyone who will say: No, no staff will be hired. But sit down and just say that it's all bad and now the world is going down, so it can't be! ==References====External links== February 2000 immediately activated by the opposition: the weekly demonstrations that have cost us 50 to 60 million schilling. [[Abg. Edlinger: I don't know!]] This seems to belong to the SPÖ's frontal opposition, as it is currently practiced. I think you really have to do the same with heart and brain opposition as politics. [[Abg. Edlinger: I miss the politics you do!]] I ask you to do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16053	The next speaker was Mrs Perfuss. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16074	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kößl, how do you know that there are no dissidents in the Ministry of the Interior? You can't even notice that with a noise attack! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: From the personnel representation elections!]] I'd be really interested. I'd ask you to explain this to us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I would like to start with something positive, namely, a positive development that has already taken place in your predecessors, that more and more young women can be found in the executive. Recently, an ÖVP collector addressed me and meant how well she worked with a civil servant. The honourable Member had a miscarriage, and this official has accompanied her so emotionally that it is really important to mention this too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! It must be taken into account in particular that, despite savings, as many women as possible are included in the executive. Especially about protection against violence, it is mostly women who are personally affected, who, in turn, have special confidence in women. I think that's very important. I hope, Mr Federal Minister, that you will continue to increase the number of women – for there are still far too few. [[Abg. Böhacker: Also the men or in general?]] I don't care. If more women are, there may be more men; I am quite open. Federal Minister! Staff savings naturally prevent young officials, men and women, who have negative consequences. I am from the district of Deutschlandsberg and can report that in my district the average age of the executives is 42 years. In three years, this average age will already be 44 years if young colleagues are not recruited soon. I constantly hear from older people that the outside service is physically and psychologically very strenuous. You want to force this now! I believe that this is a very heavy burden, especially for older colleagues. If the older officials – I can only speak for the district of Deutschlandsberg – do not receive support from younger colleagues, you will eventually endanger not only the security of officials but also the security of the population. Federal Minister! Another thing: I always hear this winged word – even before –: Fewer heads, more Indians. Now I finally know what the government means, what the colleagues from the ÖVP mean by that. You know the saying: A Indian doesn't know any pain. I conclude: The officials don't know any pain. That is to say, you can take them in a proper way. But your officials don't want to be Indians. They want transparency from your side, Mr. Federal Minister, and they also want to respect their person, whatever political attitude they are. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another word on asylum. Many asylum applications still remain far too long. This, of course, costs the people concerned time and nerves, and it also costs the authorities money. If you want to save in the administration, as you say, of course you also have to be aware that further delays can also be expected in this area. This cannot be within the meaning of the applicants or within the meaning of the authorities. Slender administration must not mean that the fates of many people remain on the track. I therefore call for more officials in this field and for better training of these officials. Federal Minister! One last thing: We discussed the very positive safety report in 1999 in the Committee a few days ago – unfortunately not here in plenary. I am afraid that this safety report will not be so positive as a result of the savings policy in the future. But probably the government has already anticipated this and has therefore established a tradition of completing safety reports in the Committee. It is easier to hide such a report from the public, if it does not look so good again. Federal Minister! I think you understand and control the omission of the actual impact of your policy very well, just: Time is a good doctor, but a bad cosmetic. The truth comes out!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16144	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. Speech time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16166	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Parfuss! We have been discussing the security report for several hours today, and you have had the opportunity to speak on the other issues that we have debated throughout the week. Despite the total savings in staff in 2001 and 2002, the Ministry of the Interior achieves that more officials work in the field of foreign services. This also concerns areas such as road safety, transport education and strip service. In contrast, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you can't have anything! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The increase in efficiency also concerns civil service. For the first time in many years, one can start to cut down the mountain of 17 000 civil service candidates, and you cannot have anything either. That must be in all our interests! Ladies and gentlemen! These restructurings in the executive are possible through reforms of the Ministry, but above all through the establishment of the Federal Criminal Office and other organizational measures, especially at the head of the Ministry. It will be necessary to organize slender and efficient and to integrate existing facilities into the cost to be created. Minister Strasser is a guarantee for this. These cost savings, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, are not at the expense of efficiency. The Federal Ministry can point to an increase in efficiency, in particular by removing still dominant double-tracks in the government structure. This increase in efficiency will also be necessary in order to ensure a strong fight against crime, particularly in the areas of organised crime. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Schwarzenberger.]] The main focus of this government in the field of internal security is the fight against organised crime, tow and drug abuse. We have already recorded 223 deaths in the field of drug abuse this year. It is all the more strange that you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, are constantly hindering the government's action to combat organised drug trafficking. We have seen this in your vote in the last week. Federal Minister! I can tell you from the FPÖ that you should continue to place a heavy emphasis on the fight against organised crime and, above all, look at drug trafficking there. Our support for this is safe for you!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16224	As the next speaker, Mrs Dr. Lichtenberger. The remaining speaking time is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16245	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address two issues which, from my point of view, are very relevant in the field of safety, but first of all appear as relatively small issues. One is the topic of air rescue. It has already been reported by you several times as a great success that the removal of the need for new EU-compliant helicopters could save 100 million schillings. They also assured me that there would not be any relevant restrictions on rescue services not directly located in the core area. Unfortunately, this is not the case. In this context, Mr Puttinger has spoken about the so-called core tasks. The fact that unbureaucratic assistance to farmers is no longer possible in the recovery of animals on the pastures and the like has already been sufficiently clarified in East Tyrol. [[Abg. Böhacker: We have enough private companies!]] But for example, in the case of a rescue operation at the Großvenediger, the rescue helicopters with the reference to the fact that they are primarily emergency helicopters, so to speak, who have refused the transport of rescue material, I think is already a tendency that goes in the wrong direction. There you have to look at whether you can really say unbrokenly that this outsourcing is a pure success story. She's paid for with service limitations. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] I agree, Mr Federal Minister, if the corresponding insurances are now also addressed in the case of the transport of injured persons. This seems to be a little more consistent now than before. A second point which is not to be underestimated in its importance – I have already given it to Mrs. Forstinger on the way to the government – is the control of the transport of dangerous goods and the overall transport of trucks. If these controls take place on the roads today, it will depend on an extremely high level of expert knowledge, especially in the field of hazardous goods, but also in the field of the checks on the transport of waste. These are highly trained officials who really try with a very high level of use and with personal additional trainings to understand the enormously rapid development especially in the chemical field and to guarantee further safety in this area. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Brosz.]] I would also like to thank these officials at this point very much. All those who have to carry out this really difficult service in the field of truck controls are at a front to which she must not envy the average citizen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the course of these controls, various legislative instruments are applied, and it requires an extremely high degree of coordination and mutual information in order to really be held here by the people who are constantly avoiding these laws and thus also contribute to a terrible price fight in the area of truck transports which leads to an enormous loss of safety. Today, we have seen an increase in the number of accidents involving trucks, with the overtiredness of handlebars and more. [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] I ask you here, Minister of State: Anxiety Together with your colleague, you will be able to meet the demands of these people from the ground. One of these demands is that the heights of punishment have a real dissuasive effect. The penalty for a crime must not be more than 20 000 s which this freight forwarder is able to pay from the post office because he has already earned more than five times through the illegal employment of a driver. I would also ask you to have checklists developed for the officials so that they can find themselves more easily in this paragraph end-of-life, in which they have to move. As you know, there has been a meeting in Innsbruck on this subject. Finally, I call on you to ensure that this quality is finally achieved in terms of density: We need 10 percent control density! We need checkpoints in Austria, so that the offenses on the truck sector are finally effectively diagnosed and safety on our roads increases again.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16305	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16326	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria is one of the safest countries in Europe. [[Abg. May. Worm: Tell Mrs. Partik-Pablé!]] This has already been noted several times today, and I am convinced that this will continue to be the case in the future. Despite a savings package, Minister of the Interior of Straster succeeded in increasing safety standards in many areas. Whether in the fight against organised crime, addiction crime, tow and so on: Never before have so much gendarmerie and police been on the street as now! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Especially at Easter, our officials will again be particularly required to ensure the safety of road users. What are the reasons for such a favourable development in the security area of Austria? Save where it makes sense – that is, at the central offices, at the bureaucrats and not outside with the officials. Just shut down departments, as suggested by the State Army Commandos, can't be! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] In Upper Austria, there is a plan for 31 services to be closed in the country. The affected municipalities and Gendarmerie commanders oppose vehemence. Double-trailness belongs to depleted, administrative processes are to be accelerated, but uncreative locking I refuse! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Federal Minister! I would like to ask you to examine the proposals made by the National Armed Forces Commission in detail and to speak to regional decision-makers in order to prevent planned closures. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is the perfidy! The Minister is too cowardly to say in public...!]] Mr Strasser knows where to save pain free, he has proved excellent in this budget, for example in the ADONI project. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Minister is hiding behind...! The Minister gives an instruction... to shorten, and then you come...!]] While SPÖ ministers have only spoken – Mr Kiermaier has often referred to this and pointed out the importance of this ADONIS programme – Minister Strasser has acted. He had a successful pilot project carried out by this new system in Burgenland. It is thought that such a radio system will lead to tremendous progress in radio technology for rescue, police and fire brigade. I think that this is very useful, because with leasing instead of buying, you can save a lot of money on the purchase costs for these devices. In addition, the most modern devices are constantly available, and there is no loss of value, no personnel costs, no maintenance costs, no re-purchasing costs, no disposal costs when installing a successor plant. [[Abg. Schwemlein: Karl, we shouldn't talk about financial mathematics!]] Federal Minister! I congratulate the many good changes – innovations that have rarely been brought into a budget in this form in such a variety of ways. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] They help to deal sparingly with existing resources and to ensure the security and security of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16441	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16462	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! An old proverb says: "Without money ka Musi." This knowledge, of course, is also reflected in the Safety chapter. Your friend! Something you said earlier is worrying: to play the "bummerl" to the national army commander for the money they don't get. That's terrible, it's double-buffy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not possible to make security policy without good and sufficient personnel. I simply can't hear these stand-ups like "the officials out on the street, so the problem is solved" anymore, because that's just right. You can tell a layman, but not someone who knows each other. [[Abg. Murauer: Who is he who knows himself?]] The officials who have now been on the inside did not play cards or watch TV; they have also done a job within them that has been necessary! I would like to say this very clearly: Even if you serve outside, you have to write ads inside, you have to write schedules and so on. Well, it's not like you've always done that again and again. It is not supposed to simplify and simplify everything in a way that does not at all correspond to the facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Spindelegger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A recording lock is in the house. There will be a hole in the age structure, which will certainly be revenged over time. We have a lot of vehicles out there and we can't fully use the strip weighing because the staff is missing. It's a humbug! There really must be something to happen! [[Abg. Böhacker: I haven't heard at all that the cars are not allowed to drive!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is also very interesting: Under Löschnak, the ÖVP mayors have put the door blinds in their hands when it came to post closures and job cuts. [[Abg. Kiss: 200 you locked up!]] We can wait for them to come back. I'm just curious what you'll say then! The double-beddedness knows no bounds. In our newspaper, in the "NÖN", the mayor of Opponitz was recently pictured, who stands before the post office and says, that is now closed, and Mr. Landtagsmaid Heuras says: I will keep myself from that, and I will bet. - That's double-beddedness! [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: A good Member!]] We will remind you of this at every gendarmerie post and at every post office and at every financial office and at every district court in the public and will certainly not let you go through this double game. You can take poison on that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Achatz and Mr Kiss.]] Another note to the officials. Mr Kiss has today looked up to the officials in the gallery who have been sitting there: They only congratulate you very much, my dear colleague. Go out and talk to the officials! They are not inclined to praise, but they are angry and really worry about their future. That's the truth, and everything else is macularity. In this context, I should like to make the following request. [[Abg. Böhacker: 200 posts you locked up! 200! We didn't forget that!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Böhacker: And the cover proposal? Who pays it?]] When you talk about the financing of these things, you have to think about other things. If you have more gendarmerie officials, more police officers, if traffic and everything else can be monitored, then more fines will come in. [[Abg. Miedl: But Mr Kiermaier!]] And if you use these fines differently, that is, more in the direction of executives, then you can also hire appropriate staff for that. [[Abg. Böhacker: The police state lives! Total surveillance!]] No, it's not a police state. Dear colleague Böhacker! [[Abg. Böhacker: This is a shot in your own knee, Mr. Colleague!]] If you go out and talk to the people, you'll find out: They want increased control, and they want more security! That's the fact, that's how it looks!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16657	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is in an appropriate context with the matter of negotiation, is sufficiently supported and is therefore also part of the negotiation or voting process. The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16682	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On today's debate in the near future: Firstly, of course, every minister has left his mark, including the corresponding Minister of the Interior. So I remember Blecha, who had a special relationship with justice, or Löschnak, who closed the posts – Mr Kiermaier, you may have forgotten something somewhere! – or to One who was against the executive at all, or to Schlögl, who knew about ECIS abuse, but did not commit any acts. [[Abg. May. Worm: You have forgotten the last 13 years!]] – These were the predecessors of Interior Minister Strasser, who will now make a red and white-red Ministry of Interior. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Parnigoni! If he is accused of not being recruited after the red color teaching and the officials are hired according to objective criteria, then I have some understanding of it because it has become a matter of course over the past 30 years that everything that has no red party book has lost nothing in the Ministry of the Interior. That's God's over! [[Abg. Grandruck: Thank God!]] You have to get used to this because now an objective personnel policy is being made. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: As in Lower Austria! Now there's a black man everywhere!]] If I say to the Federal Minister that he is making a security policy according to quality criteria, I can remind him that he has promised the superfluous bureaucracy to fight, that he has depleted the central offices, and that the Gendarmerie and Police officials, even if you do not like social democracy, are on the streets, and not, Mr Kiermaier, in order to punish even more, but to show closeness to the public, to cooperate with the people in order to work preventively and also to ensure security accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Perhaps another sentence because our Upper Austrian country army commander Schmidtbauer has been mentioned. Of course, he has been commissioned by the Minister of the Interior to make proposals for savings, without any post closures. And the not very far from SPÖ, the Gendarmerie Commander, has proposed 30 posts that he turns to. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Now it comes out what you want!]] Yes, of course! Why don't you call it by name? Don't need to be ashamed of the Schmidtbauer. [[Abg. Parnigoni: No, don't!]] So you can also mention him. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Kiss.]] He has named 30 posts as a proposal for savings, which one closes. It's not even easier. You can think a little more. This is the Federal Minister's mission. Federal Minister! They are committed to making a security policy based on quality criteria. You're on the right track. Keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16799	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16821	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Savings in such a sensitive area as the Ministry of the Interior are always at the expense of security. The figures on human smuggling alone are worrying. According to Austria's top state politician Peter Heindl, it is estimated that 300 000 to 500 000 people are being thrown into the EU each year. That's the one side. On the other hand, the Minister of Defense wants to send fewer soldiers to the border, but more money for that, the Minister of Finance does not want to give any customs guards and no money to the Federal Army, and you as Minister of the Interior need to save. Now I'm asking You really are: Does this look like the new security policy in Austria? [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] In the field of executives, everything goes to a merger of police and gendarmerie. Mr. Federal Minister, confess to your plan once! Do you really want to merge the police and the Gendarmerie? In media reports, plans have been made for 30 gender poverty posts to be closed in Upper Austria alone in the near future. You've responded, and you've said you haven't. But what does that mean? Is it likely that these items will be closed next year and 42 gendarmes will be mined? Put the cards on the table! The population and especially we in Upper Austria are waiting, Minister of State. Another area is civil protection. The measures in this area are also completely inadequate. Effective development of the protection of the population from a nuclear accident costs time and money. Especially in view of the Temelin power plant, Upper Austria and especially the capital city of Linz are also at great risk. The Mühlviertler doctors against nuclear danger even point out that they could not offer medically sufficient aid in the event of nuclear disasters. More needs to be done in this area of civil protection. Every person in our country understands that needs to be saved, but it is always the question where it is saved. And that you save most in the field of civil servants, nobody understands that at all. This has already been pointed out by a number of previous speakers today. Ladies and gentlemen! That the civil servants fulfil a very important task, I do not think I need to mention it extra. Many organizations, such as the rescue sector, are no longer able to do so without the indispensable helpers of civil service. The need for funding for cheap civilians in the health and rescue system also shows the fact that a comprehensive rescue and health transport system now threatens the financial collapse. The financial situation of the rescue organizations is dramatic. I hope you know those numbers, too. Ladies and gentlemen! All the savings of this government first meet the poor, the sick, those who are helpless and needy. Is this the new government with heart and brain? Recently a lot of heart and brain has been spoken for the little people, only the little people don't notice it. Courts are to be locked up, social security offices are to be grouped together, gender army services are being dissolved, the future of special units is uncertain, civilians have to run around their meals. [[Abg. Kiss: Which one? Which one?]] And you wonder, ladies and gentlemen, that in this country no one believes this speech of heart and brain anymore! [[Abg. Kiss: It's such a nonsense what you're feeling!]] But I ask you, Minister of State, continue to do so! Two more years with heart and brain, and this government belongs to the past!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16882	The next speaker is Member Miedl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e16903	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out several times today that Austria is relatively safe. [[Abg. May. Worm: Is it too!]] That's true, but we should be on the hat, Mrs. Colleague. New forms of crime are developing, and there are also police who are going to develop executively. And what is very important, especially in the urban area: The subjective security cannot be impressed by what is, so to speak, present and measurable in objective acts. Now I'm right there: Subjective security means, of course, personnel use of the executive. It is important to think about it, ladies and gentlemen – not only because there are many measures and strategies – and for the first time there has been a Federal Minister who says: [[Abg. Parnigoni: Lock!]] We're thinking about the past and trying to break borders. I say to you from my experience, Mrs. Worm: I have now, I think, experienced five ministers in my police service, and no one was willing to think about how he could make administrative processes more efficient. I have experienced Mr Lösnak, Mr Lanc, Mr Blecha, Mr Eine, Mr Schlögl. [[Abg. Perfuss: That's how old you are?]] And do you know what I've experienced, Mrs. Colleague? I'll tell you. We have long and wide-ranging discussed how to deal with small crime differently than it has been usual so far. It was so that the criminal police said: We don't want to deal with the little stuff, that's what the security guard is supposed to do. We have long resisted it, and it has finally made the security guard – with the success that nothing else has changed at all. – And that was the great work of my colleague Schlögl. Ladies and gentlemen! These are not the reforms we mean. In the end, they don't bring anything. You can't just say, You should do it differently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Can it be bad, Mr Parnigoni, if our Minister goes here and thinks about another form of our colleagues' commitment, a more efficient form? Can it be bad if we think about how we better organize Austria's executive workshops? Can it be bad if we think about how we organize the education and training of our executives differently? Mein Ladies and gentlemen, can it be bad if we better organize uniform management? [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mr Miedl, I did not object to that either.]] All of this is content that the Minister is now taking up for the first time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And this is good, ladies and gentlemen, because it saves money that we urgently need in other areas. And one thing I really don't want to save you, because it's always clumsy and criticism of the red and white-red behaviour of the Minister of the Interior: Ladies and gentlemen! With myself, several colleagues in the office were crying, sitting with tears in their eyes, because they simply had no chance of getting up and progressing if they didn't have the right party book. I'll tell you what came out. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mr Miedl, that doesn't hold out what you're talking about!]] Mr Parnigoni, I am so unmerciful because I know what happened. That was dangerous to the state. 14 police directors – of course SPÖ membership! There were 19 central inspectors – of course SPÖ members! 14 criminal inspectors – of course SPÖ members! Eight national army commanders – of course SPÖ members! And because this naturality is suddenly being interrupted and because it is suddenly made possible for others to ascend to the chief days, go here and automatically submit to the Minister that it is not objective. Ladies and gentlemen! On the whole, we have good superiors, and I am grateful that the executive now knows other superiors than only SPÖ people.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e17019	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e17040	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Some mysteries have already appeared in this debate. Mr Bösch is referring to the safety report that we have been discussing for some time now. Unfortunately, there is not a safety report on the debate today, but the budget. For the first time, we have not been discussing the security report in this House for about 15 years. It would have been a wonderful, very successful safety report, and I am sorry he is not being discussed. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] And because the behaviour of the new Minister of the Interior is always so highly praised, because it emphasizes that he displays a "red-and-white-red behaviour", I ask myself, Mr. Minister: How is this red-white-red behavior? How does the "red-white-red behavior" look? It can't only be like this: Red out, black in! It can't be. In addition, it does not matter to the population. The population wants only one thing, and that's security in that country. She doesn't care about anything else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today was the time to talk about savings, and savings had to be made, too, Minister of the Interior. In the three years from 2000 to 2002 – which cannot be discussed away – about 1.3 billion schillings are saved. That's fact! I believe you are a lot, Mr Federal Minister, but if you now say that, despite saving a few thousand plan posts, you manage to have more police on the street, I wonder: Do you like the square of the circle? And even if I believe you a lot, I'm convinced: You can't even do that. Ladies and gentlemen! In Innsbruck you create great unrest – taking Innsbruck as an example only for many cities in Austria, for many areas of Austria – because there are three police guards to be locked there. I've told you several times and I'll tell you again. [[Abg. Kiss: These are precepts that make you permanent! That's what we've heard!]] It's about the police-wax-tube Reichenau, it's about the police-wax-tube at the station, and it's about the police-wax-tube on the Hungerburg. Unfortunately, I say now, because these are actions you don't understand in the city. The Reichenau – I have mentioned it before – is a district in which 16 000 people live. This is a very densely populated district. The wax room is to be locked there. People are very unsure. And now you hear: We're not responsible. Mr. Stattmann says that this is a decision of the Minister, the Ministry says it is a decision of the Federal Police Directorate. I'll tell you one thing: Here the hot potato is pushed back and forth. People are worried. It has already signed 1,500 people within a short time, because they want to continue to have this sense of security in their neighborhood. - But they don't get any information. Your ministry, Mr. Federal Minister, has also been covering itself for half a year. I would like to ask you once again: Put a sign! Be man enough and say: First of all, I stand in front of the Security Director – in this case, Mr Mag. Stattmann –, I decide the second way the population wants it, and in this case the Reichenau Police Station does not close! - That would be a nice thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e17090	The next speaker is Mr Reindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e17111	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A giant debt mountain, left by Social Democratic Finance Ministers and Social Democratic Federal Chancellors, naturally also forces the interior resort to take certain rehabilitation measures. [[Abg. Parnigoni: And ÖVP! And by ÖVP Vice-Cancellors!]] The interesting thing, Mr Parnigoni: S & D MEPs are here addressing the speaker's seat and calling for a request. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Yes!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Yes!]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, from the left-wing district: What have you done in the last 30 years? Why didn't you act? [[Abg. Parnigoni: We have acted – unlike you!]] In the last 30 years, you have been setting up the Interior Ministers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Officials are not equal to officials, so the creation of an executive service law is more than justified. In the person of the Vice-Chancellor Dr. Susanne Riess-Passer, the security executive has for the first time a partner with whom this project will also be implemented. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] You won't laugh long. An executive would have a significant financial disadvantage in the event of a longer illness. It would not only be the additional charges that he would have to pay a third-level salary reduction. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mr President, why did you decide to do this?]] Ms. Dr. Susanne Riess-Passer will also be working here, Mr Parnigoni, to remedy the executive. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Why did you decide?]] It will not be the way Green Member Haidlmayr has said today that if an executive becomes ill, he will be dropped like a hot potato. She even talked about a miserable treatment. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have decided the deterioration! Mrs Riess-Passer has also decided on the deterioration.]] Therefore, I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e17277	I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported, is in a sufficient context with the subject matter of negotiation and is therefore taken to the negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e17301	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that the Austrian executive colleagues are doing excellent work for our homeland and for the Austrians, and we should thank them for that. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Lexer.]] A few brief comments on some of the statements made by my predecessors. Mr Reindl, 30 years ago – and every insider, at least from the circle of executives, knows that – you did 280 hours, without any additional fees, without a proper salary scheme, without proper service rights. So please don't pretend to have happened in the last 30 years. All the older Members of the Executive are aware of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's interesting to be here – he doesn't listen, but I should be right, he didn't listen to it at the time – if you decide on the part of the government parties a deterioration for the executive, but, of course, for all colleagues in the public service. I have warned everyone from this speaker's desk and I have said that the executive is extremely strong with this § 13c. You decided! I asked where the friends of the ÖAAB were then. At the dive station you were all, ladies and gentlemen! That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And then, in a question to Mrs Vice-Chancellor, the question of how to resolve hardships is raised, and now a request is being submitted which only weakens this. The hardness remains. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'll invite you to: Let's lift these new paragraphs now! Let us give our colleagues and, above all, the executive the opportunity we can give them together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! We already know that the ÖVP was neither in a government with us nor anything else. However, I would like to point out that: Now we can discuss on which sand Traiskirchen or SIAK have been built, only one is not possible, and that is why I look in all forms: To present the whole region here as if the district of Baden or the region were not able from the infrastructure to accommodate the SIAK, I strongly reject it, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We can also debate the following: The ÖVP was fully involved in the location question. You have performed in your previous position together with Landeshuptmann Pröll for the location Traiskirchen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have all heard it several times here in the House, we have also been told as an answer to written questions. Federal Minister! The hour of truth will come, and then we will see if something is locked up or not. The fact that the discussion goes across Austria has not been assumed by any left-wing fanatics, but this matter is also discussed in a massive way in ÖVP travels. There too I am curious, dear friends of the ÖAAB, how we will conduct this discussion together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say one more thing and ask all the political groups to do so. I invite you to something I have already mentioned in the Public Services chapter. When we talk about planning sites – and there are now more than 2,000 to be rationalized from this area throughout the period – there is no If and But, because there are people, colleagues behind them. I believe that they have a right to be treated correctly and fairly by us, especially the colleagues of the executives, who repeatedly stand up with their lives for our security and the security of our homeland!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e17400	The next speaker is Mr Schweisgut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e17422	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has already been said almost everything and has been stressed several times by the previous speakers. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] In conclusion, however, I would like to say once again that, despite savings measures and a reduction in the total number of officials, there has been no restriction on security in this budget chapter. Thanks to restructuring and efficiency, road safety remains optimal. As a result of fundamental structural changes, security is, I believe, as big as ever. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The fact that safety is not saved is of particular importance to Tyrol. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that because of its geographical position as a transit country, Tyrol lies between Germany and Italy. Through the removal of borders and the entry into force of the Schengen Agreement, a lot of problems had to be addressed in Tyrol – traffic pollution, smuggling, drug crime, tow and so on. So there was a very large problem area. A control station was set up at the A 12 in Kundl, the first in Austria, as an aid to the optimum management of these problems. It was opened last year and cost about 15 million Schilling. This amount was financed by the Land of Tyrol and the ASFINAG. In this control station, vehicles are checked by the Gendarmerie for overload or technical equipment as well as the billing of ecopoints. In addition, the customs guard shall also carry out relevant checks. In the first nine months of its existence alone, this control station has proved its worth. I would particularly like to thank the executive for the excellent work. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] .. However, I would like to point out some areas which seem to be somewhat problematic. From the point of view of the economy, this concerns in particular the sectoral ban, which has been adopted in parallel to the motorway. As a result, there are enormous waiting times for many trucks that have to avoid the motorway due to a short distance of 20 kilometres. The highest weight that is controlled there has become a problem, particularly in the local area – in the case of very small violations of a few hundred kilos. A total of 1 million schilling has already been imposed on penalties for weight violations in the first two months. Similar problems also exist in differentiated weight control; in Austria, unlike other countries, it is common to weigh individual axes and not to use the total weight. Nevertheless, I would like to say that this station has developed into an important facility. Above all, it should also be noted that the super-head trailers attached there function perfectly. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Finally, I would like to stress that I welcome the control stations because they make a huge contribution to the security of Tyrol. Mrs Lichtenberger pointed out in her speech that she is in favour of higher penalties. The claim with which she claimed that 20 000 s would be a "cash money" for fishermen, I believe, is self-evident. Safety yes, but no targeted scrapping of the transport industry! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The objective must be the protection of citizens, but not punishment at all costs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e17512	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. Ladies and gentlemen, two minutes of remaining speaking time for your group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e17533	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First and foremost: reduce the salary of officials, decide on them in the Council of Ministers and then make a half-hearted repair here in the house – that is the worst form of motivation for the staff in the executive! I would like to make this clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second point: Federal Minister! They announce a wealth of reforms. I'm gonna take one out, it's about the Security Academy. If I look at how this Security Academy is understood by you and what you do in the Moroccan barracks, that's not what we expect from God. I think that an Austrian Security Academy has to be a training centre for officials as well as an international site for scientific work. You have not yet achieved this form of reform, Mr Federal Minister, but we expect it from you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I think – and there will probably be no contradiction here – that officials in Austria have the right to find a platform on which training and further education is ensured to the highest degree and at the highest level. I ask you and ask you to make your contribution, so that officials in Austria continue to provide a service for citizens who are of quality, but not – the approach you are making – of pay cuts.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e17579	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Pumberger. 1 minute's remaining speaking time, honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e17600	Mr President. I have nothing to do with the internal budget, but I would like to briefly address the problem raised by Mr Jung. A few weeks ago, Mr Pirklhuber of the Greens called the Republic of Austria a "swine stable, which belongs to an emissary". I asked him – after he received an order call at the time and until today did not apologize to the Austrians – today in an interlocutory call, he may apologize. He then replied as follows: Don't start again, Mr Pumberger, or you'll get another one on the roof. [[Abg. Ollinger: That was meant in the transferred sense!]] [[Further calls.]] Mr Pirklhuber! I expect you to apologize to me. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: He didn't tell you...!]] I expect you to finally apologize to the Austrians for the expression "Sweinstall, which belongs to the emissary". I also expect you to distance yourself from the threat of violence against political dissidents.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e17657	No one is reported in the word anymore. The speaking time of all the political groups has been exhausted until a remaining minute. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the advisory group IV of the Federal Proposal for 2002. This includes Chapter 11 of the Federal Estimate in 500 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group IV of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Parnigoni and Mr Comrades on the abolition of the reduction in salary in the case of sickness for executives. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Abg. Parnigoni, where are you?]] – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Parnigoni and Mr Comrades on the addition of 1 000 security executive officers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Kiss and Mr Comrades on the prevention of cases of hardness for executives in the event of illness. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 81.) [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of SPÖ) Go!]] The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-03-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00067_d7e17744	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed were brought in applications 415/A to 423/A. Questions 2267/J to 2284/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 4. The following agenda was adopted at 9 a.m. on April: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template 500 and 500 of the Supplements: Federal Finance Act for the year 2002 together with investments, 540 of the supplements. The Advisory Group VII – Social Security and Generations, Women, Youth and Family, Health – the Advisory Group XI – Finance – will be consulted, the text of the Federal Finance Act, establishment plan and vehicle plan, as well as the reports of the Immunity Committee in 550 and 551 of the Supplements. There will be no Question Time at this meeting. The sitting is closed.
