ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5507	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you and ask you to take your place. With this I open the 71. The National Council meeting, convened for today at 9 a.m. The official protocols of 69. Meeting of 10. ==References== Meeting of 11. In May, there was no opposition in the Parliamentary Directorate, and they were therefore deemed approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Hagenhofer, Vergestnitsch, Fink, Mag. Stoisits, Haller and Dr. Povysil. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5543	The Federal Chancellor made the following statement on a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government: Minister of the Interior Dr. Ernst Strasserwill represent Dr. Martin Bartenstein. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5570	We are now arriving at the current hour, the subject of which is: "The credibility of the anti-atomic policy of the Austrian Federal Government (e.g. in the Federal Constitutional Act for an Atom-free Austria) against the background of the sale of Austrian energy companies to foreign nuclear companies" You are aware of the business regulations relating to the current hour: A speaker is given a 10 minute speaking time for reasons, followed by an opinion by a member of the government, then a debate begins with contributions of 5 minutes each. On the grounds of the topic of the current hour, Mrs Dr Glawischnig is given the floor. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5603	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! We have devoted the current hour to this issue today, because, after a decision such as the sale of KELAG to a German nuclear company, we do not think we can go over to the agenda, but rather we need to discuss such a decision against the background of Austrian anti-atomic policy and critically question it. From our point of view, this is an absolutely disastrous decision, which raises massive problems as regards our credibility in our anti-atomic policy and in our economics! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] I am also glad that the Federal Chancellor is present at the discussion on this issue, because we have had a little feeling in recent weeks and months that anti-atomic policy is no longer a major issue. [[Abg. Grandruck: Now she's one again!]] This KELAG deal of the three Carinthian parties, the SPÖ, the Freedom and the ÖVP, deserves critical attention. Who's the RWE? Why is this a disastrous decision? – You have to keep this in mind once again: The RWE is the largest energy group in Germany, the third largest in Europe, it produces 20 percent of its electricity in nuclear power plants, is involved in seven German nuclear power stations, has extensive contracts with the French EdF, massive interests in south-eastern Europe and is also the third largest player in the international water business after the purchase of the British water supply provider. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 19! 19!]] This company now took over 49 percent of the Carinthian energy company. What has KELAG been like so far? – KELAG has been Austria’s cleanest energy supply company: 85 percent hydropower, large drinking water resources – caravans, storage power plants, storage lakes with drinking water quality – and all of this has now been "sold out"! The sale was completely uncritical in the Carinthian state government and also in the country day. There has not even been a debate on this at the Landtagssession. All three parties agreed to simply sink a substantial part of our anti-atomic policy for 4.2 billion schilling! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The attitude of the Austrian population is well aware of all those present, I think. We know that 91 percent of people in Austria generally reject the import of nuclear power and that 87 percent also oppose the sale of Austrian energy companies to foreign nuclear companies. Now the question is: How do three parties in Carinthia simply get through such a declaration of bankruptcy of environmental policy, anti-atomic policy and energy policy, even though they are months before – in fact only two months before! – have made quite a different tone? Concrete: The Carinthian head of state, who in the past spoke out fully against Temelin, who had traveled with the helicopter to the borders, who had warned that Austria could be ruled by foreign nuclear companies, and who had even beaten the Steirers, because they had already sold 25 percent of their energy company to a nuclear group, and who had said that these had no place in a clean Austrian solution, this head of state makes a Salto mortale and two months later exactly what he had previously done in the harshest, sharpest and most critical words. He sells a part of our e-business to a German nuclear company, which, as I said, has massive strategic interests towards south-eastern Europe, and which in the Treaty has also become adept at that – one has to let go of it once! – KELAG will be the operating platform of the RWE for Austria. So: KELAG will be the distribution platform for nuclear power from France and Germany for Austria and South-East Europe! It is clear that this weakens our negotiating position and massively affects our efforts in the field of anti-atomic policy, since it is being pursued in Slovenia, in the Czech Republic, of course! How will one continue to act against Krško or against Temelin or against Mochovce if the KELAG commits itself in a contract as the distribution platform for foreign nuclear power? Is that not an absolute contradiction? Isn't that totally incredible? Isn't that the complete bankruptcy of our anti-atomic policy? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course you can say: Whoever has ever believed that the state captain Haider, with his statements regarding environmental policy or anti-atomic policy or a reasonable energy policy, is only serious in approaches, is guilty of himself, for it is likely to find a contrary statement from him on any statement made by the head of state Jörg Haider. This is of course also true in the field of anti-atomic policy. Two months ago it was still warned to plead for a clean electricity solution: Austria had to be careful not to be dominated by nuclear companies from abroad, Austria had to remain lord in its own house! - All of this said Haider two months ago. But, as I said, Whoever has ever believed Haider on this question is guilty of himself. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Speech is poorly prepared!]] The fact that this policy itself has demasked that this is a massive contracaration of all our efforts against Temelin and the other bordering nuclear power stations is obvious. And that it is also the lowest point in Austrian energy policy, that an Austrian solution with a strong hydropower group is severely impeded and that it is also a bankruptcy declaration for the protection of drinking water resources is also evident. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But also the other two parties simply agreed to this deal. You have to ask that again critically! What led a Carinthian SPÖ to lead her to participate in this Haider deal against the interests of an Austrian company, namely the association, in any way? What really was the background of this whole deal? It's not understandable to me! The Minister of Economic Affairs must also be blamed for having let this happen in recent months with a "laisser-fair" policy and in no way openly worked on an Austrian solution. It is indeed true that this Austrian solution has been repeatedly demanded by all parties. But why doesn't she come in? There you can't talk about any of the troublesome heads of state. Although they are also apologised, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Energy to ensure that Austrian interests are brought together in a strategicly reasonable industrial policy approach. The ÖVP and the liberals have really shot themselves in the knee with this deal of nuclear policy – I have to formulate it in this way. I do not understand the SPÖ in Carinthia. But we would like to use this opportunity to start a discussion here in the National Council, to send a clear signal and to give a clear mandate from Parliament towards the federal states. Further negotiations are under way with regard to the energy companies of other countries – that is, Lower Austria and Upper Austria, and this concerns the union. Around these circular European groups, which partly have war funds in the order of our total budget. The E.ON, one of the world's largest corporations, has a war fund of 500 billion schilling! I think it is incredibly small and shortsighted if nine federal states have only one goal: We don't want to lose our majority! Now it is about Austria being secured as an energy production site in the medium term, and that we do not lose our shares in one federal country after another – first the Styria, then Carinthia, then perhaps Lower Austria, then perhaps Upper Austria, then the union – and simply give up our strategic opportunities in terms of our anti-atomic policy and our energy policy. That would be extremely shortsighted! I would like the National Council to adopt this evening, when we discuss the environmental package, a resolution calling for a clear appeal to the national leaders to make great efforts and efforts to bring about an Austrian electricity solution. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Although Carinthia and Styria are already lost, that should not be the end. We should consider how we can prevent such massive misjudgments as have just been made in Carinthia in the future! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To conclude: It is not only about energy policy and anti-atomic policy, it is also about protecting Austrian drinking water resources. We know that high-quality drinking water is present in the storage power plants and in the storage lakes. As with the entry into force of the RWE, it is the European electricity companies that have a massive interest in our water resources. You can now of course discuss what a...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5712	Please do not discuss, but the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5727	Thank you! . I would like to make one last appeal, especially to colleagues from the Free and the ÖVP: It is also about the Austrian drinking water resources. If you are so negligent about these resources, you must not be surprised that the opposition here from this pult has to determine the bankruptcy declaration of environmental policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5757	Mr Bundeskanzler spoke on an opinion on the subject of the current hour. His speaking time should also not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5779	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The question of KELAG sales is, of course, not a matter of the National Council, but of the Carinthian Landtag. You know that! [[Abg. May. Posch: Minister Bartenstein has nothing to do with it? It's new to me!]] Somewhere, constitutional powers and public jurisdiction should be respected. But I am grateful to you that we now have the opportunity to talk about energy policy, because in this respect this Federal Government has a lot of positive points to make! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] First of all, we can demonstrate in such a debate that it is possible to meet all the energy needs in Austria – and far more! – without covering nuclear energy. Without this dangerous form of energy production, we can guarantee environmentally friendly and environmentally friendly production, and we are proud of that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, we can prove that the Austrian line is proven at the opening of the electricity market. As with the phone, every trader and every consumer feels: The prices will fall! And this is also a good message for consumers in times where some people are getting more expensive – thanks to our Minister for Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Not I, but the Wifo estimates that electricity costs for households will fall by about 10 percent, for traders even by 15 percent. – All these successes would not have been possible, one would have followed the slow and hesitant pace of reform – one could almost speak of the "weighted brake maneuver" that the opposition has tried on this question. But now, in the open electricity market, it is of course also with consumers. They have the choice of the form of energy generation they prefer. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's incredible!]] And this is an important responsibility, because the market participant decides, of course, whether to purchase electricity from hydropower, wind power, coal or even from imported nuclear power. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's incredible! We need nuclear power so consumers can choose!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] We ensure transparency and the visibility of energy production. Of course, the consumer has the responsibility and the option – that is how it must be! Austria is in favour of the other European countries. The EU has set itself the goal for 2010 to generate 22 percent of total energy production, total energy consumption from renewable energy. We already have 25 percent of our total energy consumption and 74 percent of Austrian electricity from renewable energy! We can be proud of this, and we must also thank those who have invested 110 billion schilling in hydropower plants over the last 20 years, partly against the bitter resistance of the Greens, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With the Austrian solution it is such a thing: We have fought a long time ago – at the time I was still Minister of Economic Affairs, and my successors have done the same – because it is possible to find a large Austrian hydropower solution beyond the cantonist, beyond the national borders. We would have needed a few things to do this. For example, we would have needed a constitutional opening of the 51-percent clause, of course, with the aim of being able to switch then that one would have the opportunity to go to the stock exchange. By June last year, when we applied for this, there was an absolute No of the opposition that, of course, should have guaranteed the constitutional majority. Yesterday came an advance from SPÖ chairman Gusenbauer, who was exactly the same – one! – said what Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein proposed months ago, but this did not cause any reaction at the time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He always does that!]] Therefore: If we have "Austria red-white-red" in our heart, then you should respond in time to the failed proposals of the government and the majority of governments and not come up behind! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Salto forward!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: A little bit a simple...!]] On the question of KELAG, I am very much with you, Madam President. I don't understand a lot. As far as I'm informed – but we weren't switched on, we're not responsible and responsible for that we had absolutely nothing to say! – and I thought it was very good – offered the joint venture more than the RWE. It has offered 51 percent 4.5 billion schilling, the RWE for 49 percent 4.2 billion. However, the majority, question 49 or 51 percent, is not relevant at all, because the joint venture already has 36 percent of the KELAG today, and it is totally pointless whether I get 49 or 51 percent to do so, I definitely have the majority. So why the better offer in cash, by the joint venture, was not accepted, I don't know. But this is not the subject for this House, but the subject of the Carinthian Landtag. That's where it belongs! But I think it was nice that the composite company put their cards on the table. We should all be grateful to her for this, and I am sure that the efforts will continue. I am not as skeptical and pessimistic as you are in the question of Styria, because the negotiations are not bad at all. I very much hope that there will be a small Austrian solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Last point: Temelin. You know: Talking is one thing, and acting is another. – I am very much in favour of continuing the milking process, because it is the only chance that we can agree on and continue to contact the Environment Ministers in conversation with the Czech neighbours, in conversation with Germany – which was an important topic in the visit of Chancellor Schröder. To say no and to criticize anyone who dares to stay in conversation, Mrs Glavischnig, I think that I am quite simple and will not, at least, do a good job. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So let us stay in conversation, let us stick to the common line that all four parliamentary parties always had in the question of Temelin, but let us choose the democratic path – not the path of the blockades – of dialogue!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5940	We are now entering the debate. The speaking times are, as we know, 5 minutes each. The first speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5967	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a little disappointed. It would indeed have been a failure, I believe, if it were a matter of expertise, for Federal Minister Bartenstein would have given his opinion on this subject here. Federal Chancellor! Once you have really been Minister of Economic Affairs, I must say that you have completely forgotten all that you have probably known on the subject. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If German Chancellor Schüssel announces a price reduction for consumers in Austria, I can remind you that this price reduction has already been preceded by the increase in the energy levy, so we will experience that there will hardly be any price reductions. All that has been offered so far is pure chimary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens doubt the credibility of the Federal Government in the field of anti-atomic policy. I'm asking: How credible is this federal government in the Austrian electricity solution? – If Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein is slightly surprised by the KELAG decision, I am more than amazed at it. Of course, Landeshauptmann Haider has repeatedly pointed out the Austrian hydropower society he would like to have, and has expressed that often, but he was apparently as surprised by the reaction of Federal Minister Bartenstein, who, as he said, already announced in February of this year, finally wanted to have talks about the Austrian electricity solution. – Nothing is passing up to this day! It is as yesterday our chairman, Dr. Gusenbauer, said at the press conference: KELAG happened by the non-trafficking of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It seems that since it gave up its self-elected motto "Speed kills", the Federal Government has come up with something. She – as you say so beautifully – got out of the way. On the whole, this is no accident for the Austrians – so they are kept from many horrors by the non-trafficking – but there are also constraints that the Federal Government should cause to act. Apparently, she is so busy with the exchange – with the sintering exchange – of boards, of heads, that she finds no time to do what she is actually Federal Government – free according to the motto: Blue says black! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] How else, Mr Bundeskanzler, can the association in Carinthia offer something that is not for sale at all? – Although we know that there would have been a participation in the holding, I would point out that the union in Upper Austria is the same. If the Federal Government is really interested in an Austrian electricity solution, I ask: Where does the ownership responsibility of the Federal Government remain? – Federal Minister Bartenstein! You know very well that in your ownership responsibility, you would have the opportunity, at least through the Supervisory Board of the Association, which was also partially renewed, to bring your will, the will of the Federal Government, to the Executive Board. This seems not to have happened so far. So that we know what we're talking about: We are truly electric dwarfs in Austria; 2.4 percent of European electricity is only available in Austria, and we are best advised to strengthen ourselves in Austria accordingly. And if, for the time being, we, the SPÖ as the opposition party, were not prepared to think about the participation of the public hand about this 51 percent and to have talks: That is simple and simply incorrect. We've always said: There is no blank check on this question for the Federal Government. If the Federal Government puts a clear, useful concept on the table, then we are also ready to discuss it. I would like to point out once again what we presented to the public yesterday: We are quite prepared to think about an Austrian transmission network society, about an Austrian hydropower company and about an Austrian energy holding company.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6039	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6055	Gentlemen of the Federal Government! We're ready to talk. When it comes to the Austrian electricity solution, you don't have to shove behind the opposition! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6085	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6106	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a bit strange that we have a Carinthian decision to discuss today – a Carinthian decision, however, which has fallen unanimously there. That is, all parties represented in the Carinthian Landtag have given their consent to this Carinthian solution, because from the point of view of Carinthia it is by far the best solution that could be reached for this state. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Oils.]] I'm going to explain this, too, Mr Oillinger. The reason for this decision is simple to explain on a number of occasions, and this decision brings all the benefits that can only be expected. The accusation that nuclear power will play a major role is still in space – I will disarm it. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] First of all, the reasons for the Carinthian decision: This decision will greatly strengthen the position of KELAG. There is a future-oriented growth strategy for KELAG by making use of opportunities, technological opportunities developed by the RWE in Germany, for the south-eastern European market accordingly. This is an economic consideration that has not yet taken place with you, because you cannot see that far. [[towards the green]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This means that there is now a safeguarding of jobs and the possibility of creating a lot of new jobs in this federal state, which is particularly important in times like this, because it is technologically high, valuable jobs for Austrians, who thus have a correspondingly high level of merit. [[Abg. Oils: nuclear power plants!]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Fairy fairy tale!]] So this is an absolute strengthening of the Carinthian economic location – that of the federal state, Mrs Glawischnig, from which you come. The only problem you have is that the head of the Carinthian state, a freeman of the state, shows how it is going, and thus is a model for all the other federal states in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He has provided for the establishment in Carinthia of a competence centre – which should please you – for hydropower and renewable energy for the entire RWE group. The entire RWE group will install its competence center for hydropower and renewable energy there – exactly what you want! So I don't understand why you're against it at all. Federal Chancellor! The interlocutory company – you know that exactly – did not come to the train, because no tender-compliant offer was made. 49 percent were registered, and the joint venture offered 51 percent. That is to say, the offer of the joint venture should not have been allowed, because 49 percent were advertised and offered it for 51 percent. – That only to clarify why the combination with a slightly higher offer has not come to the train. But now to the nuclear history that you try to subjugate the Carinthian decision. [[Abg. Oils: The truth!]] The participation of the RWE in the KELAG will not result in nuclear power imports, Mr Oellinger. [[Abg. Oils: All right!]] Mrs Glawischnig has stated here that the nuclear power share of the RWE is particularly high. [[Abg. Ollinger: He's being filtered out!]] The leading player in nuclear power production is the Electricité de France – we know that – with more than 80 percent. Second, the E.ON ranks 44.5 percent – which is just trying to get into Lower Austria – and thirdly, we find the RWE with 19 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] And now we come to the point: The RWE Group – listen very carefully now, Mrs Glawischnig! – will leave nuclear power production within a very short time, as agreed with the green minister Trittin in Germany. It will therefore exit because a whole new technology has been brought to market maturity. [[Abg. Oils: To the commissions!]] I don't know if you already know the gas-powered fuel cell with connected micro turbine, which was developed there and which will be on the market over the next two years. This new technology will be distributed through the KELAG in south-eastern Europe and will completely replace the 19 percent nuclear current of the RWE. [[Abg. Oils: To the commissions!]] The RWE has developed a new technology that makes it possible to get out of the use of nuclear power within a short period of time, and then the RWE – and thus also the KELAG – will be the first group to be a large electricity provider completely free of nuclear power on the market. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] Carinthia is there – and you have another look!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6266	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6287	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria is not only a rich country, it is also a structural country, especially in rural areas, well developed and well developed. This also has a very special role to play in the development of the Austrian energy industry, because we started very early on to make our abundant hydropower useful, especially in small regional structures, which, of course, still enabled us to operate regional development with this development of the e-Economy in a protected market situation at the time – regional development for security of supply, but regional development also in the sense of independence of energy supply. It happened to us in the country only one thing: In the 1960s, almost all countries were underestimated to have a lack of electricity in the following years. And decisions have been made – such as in Austria regarding Zwentendorf. If there is a need for evidence of the credibility of Austrian energy policy, the anti-atomic policy, then it was precisely the decision – late, but still – that this monument, which our old German Chancellor Kreisky put up in Zwentendorf, did not put into operation – even if it was still so difficult economically – that we would not put this nuclear power plant into operation and give a clear signal to the world that we are serious about our anti-atomic policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Other countries, ladies and gentlemen, have gone the other way: They invested in nuclear power plants. In Austria, as the Federal Chancellor has already done, we have invested 110 billion schilling in the expansion of our hydropower in the use of hydropower over the last 20 years. Today we are in Austria with a share of more than 70 percent of electricity from hydropower – a peak value as it is not achieved in any other country. Of course, we must see that the market situation, the competitive situation has changed completely. We live in the flood of electricity: This leads to a completely changed market behaviour. Globalisation takes place with the suppliers – and also with a struggle for survival. We need to take this into consideration once and for all. Policy can set a framework there or there with competition rules that are restrictive or promoting for renewable energy sources. However, it is clear that: The commercial principles behind the leadership of such companies force strategic alliances, forcing mergers. What we can do in politics is to take advantage of the legal scope. And this has been done by Austria to a very exemplary degree. The new ElWOG includes a third country scheme that prevents imports of nuclear power from third countries. Even the German SPD Minister for Economic Affairs Müller has praised this scheme as an example and has even proposed it to the EU as an example for the whole of the EU. The obligation to label the origin of the electricity is laid down in this Act for each individual electricity manufacturer. In addition, it is to be said: We also use our political spaces – not just the legal ones. Just think of what is happening in Temelin, what the Federal Chancellor and Minister of State Molterer in Melk has managed to do about Temelin, namely to force the Czechs into a negotiation process, and indeed to force them to negotiate and ensure an exit scenario for this power plant. And what are the Greens doing at this moment when we are in the middle of a process of development in which we are in the middle of the current hour, Mrs Glavischnig? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: The exit will not be negotiated! It would be nice if it was about the exit!]] – They say goodbye to this common anti-atomic policy and thereby sacrifice Austria’s anti-atomic policy on the altar of populism or perhaps on the altar of the “Kronen Zeitung”!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6337	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6358	Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate, which has been called the "Bundesland debate" – it has also been said that it is incomprehensible to have to talk about Carinthia – is finally a debate on the government's nuclear policy. I listened closely to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany today. He clearly said that the government's anti-atomic policy is that one has the choice between nuclear current and a non-declarated – others – electricity. – This is truly a declaration of bankruptcy which I would not have expected even in this debate! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] However, I cannot let the colleagues of the Social Democracy get away with it, too, because if someone says that the sale of Kelag was the result of government policy, he could just as well say that the budget deficit in Austria was ultimately due to the policies of the United Nations. – To get out of the affair in this way, I think that is not credible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If Mr Schweitzer defends the Kelag solution because it allows the Kelag to take a position on the market, which it would never otherwise achieve, then it really will finally tear the liberal off the face with regard to anti-atomic policy! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Did you not hear the second part?]] If it's finally about conquering a market position, then suddenly everything is indifferent, then sell cow and stable, then everything is sausage, then no more principles apply! The argument that one first has to enter the atomic stream so that one can be there at the exit, is spiritual soap box race, which I do not want to continue in this form. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The first case of sin was actually the Styria – that has already been said correctly – the second case of sin now is Carinthia, and finally what we wanted and what we demand, namely that there can be an Austrian solution, which would also allow a clear declaration for energy customers, is impossible. You see very clearly that in the past – be honest! – in reality, the black country societies have only been concerned with leaving as few fields as possible open to the union. This led the federal states to take two different paths. The one way – for example, in my native Tyrol – is the way of the regional monopoly: The energy industry, in the narrower sense of electricity management, as well as gas, communication and also as a new business area of waste combustion and water are to come into one's hands. This regional monopoly is intended to cover, as it were, all the main supply lines. The other way – the way of the Kelag and the way of the Styria – is to throw yourself into the arms of the atomic giants, to say quite hypocritically, it is not even half of nuclear power sold, and from the federal side – and I particularly criticise this – to continue the hot potato of marking nuclear current to the countries! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You didn't want anything to do with this, Minister. This has been a lost opportunity from my point of view,...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6414	Please, you can't.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6437	Thank you, Mr President. ...to make anti-atomic policy credible. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What do you mean, "Thank you, Mr President!"? Take it back!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6480	She took it back. She wanted to say lost chance. I hope I got it right. Please continue your remarks, and I ask for a little more caution in terms of expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6514	It's called a lost chance. If you can't listen, then...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6566	Now we have clarity on this question. Please put to the end, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6582	The following needs to be clarified once again at the end: Especially in a European situation with German, French, European electricity giants who are shopping in our small market in order to be able to participate in the water business in the long term, no anti-atomic policy is continuing...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6606	Please, ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time has ended. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger tries to talk without microphone.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't hear!]] [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] The next item is Mrs Sima's speech. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6648	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to refer to something that the Federal Chancellor has said. He meant: Consumers have the choice! – Unfortunately, this is not at all the case at present, since the electricity identification is country matter. I would like from you, Mr Bundeskanzler, here and now a clear commitment to the fact that consumers will really have the choice in the future! At the moment, only Vienna is actually thinking of defining a strict electricity label so that consumers can really see that nuclear power comes out of their sockets. To make yourself here now and to say that consumers would anyway have the choice, and then that in those countries where black country leaders have the say, I do not believe that this is absolutely hypocritical. I expect you to make a clear commitment to a power label here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now to Mr Schweitzer, who has probably left the hall for good reasons. Mr Schweitzer. Her speech today was really out of embarrassment. [[Abg. May. Trattner: She was very good!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was a real expert speech! You're not coming!]] I would have been in your place to say something like this here as environmental spokespersons of the Freedom Party or of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: But then the Leikam with you!]] People don't let themselves be sold for stupid purposes, Mr. Schweitzer. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Look what the Leikam says!]] What you have tried to tell us is that the Kelag RWE will bring out of nuclear power. I haven't heard such a ridiculous thing in my whole life! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why does the Leikam not speak on this subject?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Leikam does not clap!]] Mr Schweitzer. I would like to write something to you in the main book: At least I went through to find critical words to my own party colleagues, but you didn't think anything but to say: Head of State Haider shows us how. – I have never heard anything like this embarrassing about nuclear power! I'd get in your place! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Shall I explain it again?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why does Toni Leikam not complain?]] Especially amazing was the role of Kärntner's head of state Jörg Haider in this whole sales story. [[Abg. Böhacker: Why did the SPÖ-Kärnten agree?]] The liberals have really placed themselves at the border on every opportunity offered, in Wolowitz. They're all over with "Stop Temelin!"-Stickers walked around, on all party days, and now they're going to bed with the biggest customer of Czech electricity and future temelin power! What about your credibility? What about Mr Haider, who was really the first to act against Temelin? I mean, no one can take that seriously anymore. And I really cannot understand that you, Mr Schweitzer, as the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, are still defending this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to quote from a press comment of 25.5.2001, which says: "In any case, however, it is extremely shabby for the Austrians to always prefer something of domestic hydropower solutions to laugh at a European nuclear power giant immediately in return." It is also mentioned in this article, and this clearly refers to Jörg Haider: "It is certainly not the realization of the year that the actions of a Jörg Haider can be removed from his words within a few moments." I believe that as clearly as we have now seen in Carinthia, we have not been shown this fact for a long time. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer:... gas-powered fuel cell with connected micro turbines!]] – Listening You're on with the gas-powered fuel cell, that didn't even believe anyone at the ÖVP. Even there, everyone laughed when you said that this is the great technology for the future. That's absurd, please. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] With the introduction of RWE – I would like to remind you again – in the future flows from the Kärntner sockets nuclear current! There will be no way by. ==References== In October, there is freedom of choice for electricity users through the liberalisation of electricity. I would ask you to at least step in to ensure that there is a clear label. There is an initiative by Greenpeace that is truly supportive. This is country-related, and this needs to be implemented so that people actually know what kind of electricity comes from their socket. I know, Mr Westenthaler, that you take note of this. You seem to be the problem of nuclear power stations – as is the rest of your group!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6857	The next speaker is Mr Bartenstein. Speaking time: also 5 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6878	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, from October this year Austria's electricity consumers will have the free choice of the electricity supplier on the one hand and the type of electricity they want to be supplied with on the other. It will be mandatory to include in all invoices the labelling from which source of electricity supplied to Austrian consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria's electricity industry and the strategies for the future. – In essence, two things are in the foreground here, namely, the strengthening of Austrian hydropower – and this has been referred indirectly to by Mr Oberhaidinger. A long-term strategy to create an Austrian hydropower society makes sense. In this regard, we are still on a good path. Austria is an essential hydropower generator. The Federal Chancellor has already mentioned that two thirds to three quarters – depending on the water management – of the electricity in Austria come from the renewable energy source hydropower. Hydropower will become even more important in the future, that is just a matter of time. As a renewable energy source, it will be against nuclear power, and it will increasingly prevail against caloric electricity. We have a margin in Europe with the interconnected society and are already in place of three, which leads to production capacity. Therefore, a very logical strategy: Invite other suppliers of hydropower in Austria – one cannot force anyone – to participate in this event, to take part in the hydropower subsidiary of Austria Hydropower AG and, in return to long-term supply contracts for electricity, to offer this electricity from hydropower to their consumers. That makes sense, and we have gone this way several times. In the Styria this path is the one that is now fixed contractually. For example, the KELAG has already introduced hydropower capacities and also has a 10-percent participation in the Austrian hydropower. Discussions took place with Niederösterreich and Vienna, led by me on 28.3. of this year. Unfortunately, the owners themselves have not been able to participate in it, but have only sent board members as representatives. There are also contacts with Upper Austria. So there are conversations. If it succeeds in strengthening this unique asset of the Austrian economy, i.e. hydropower, for this country, then it is good. We will continue this path, even if the events in Carinthia have irritated us a little in the last few days. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This leads me to the accusation that the union would not have acted accordingly. What else can one do to make an offer to negotiate contracts with the sellers? So the board of directors tells me that he felt that this was very much in line with the will of the sales side, and it was generally surprising whether the official response was that it would have been a non-exhibition-compliant offer, so the joint venture would have been removed from the bidder circle. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why not 49 percent?]] This must be noted, that the organs have to represent. In any case, there have been efforts on the part of the association, I can confirm that to you! Finally, I would like to say what seems to me to be important to Austria's electricity industry as much as to the strengthening of hydropower – Mr Oberhaidinger has done this in an additional sentence – the question of an Austrian power line company, for the network. I offer that the interlocutory company, for its part, brings its network activities, 220 kV and 380 kV lines, into a stock company and that afterwards the invitation – again an invitation: you can not force anyone! – to the state providers and, subsequently, to other network operators in Austria, many of whom are involved in participating in their networks against participation. In contrast to other things, however, networks are a natural monopoly, the High House, and therefore there must be a majority of the local authorities – that is not necessarily the federal government – in this country; 50 percent plus something. For the rest, one could certainly put the imagination in the direction of a broad exchange. That would make sense, that would be the second part of an Austrian electricity strategy! I have to say that what I presented on March 28th, I find to a great extent again in the comments of SPÖ chairman Gusenbauer, and when there are good conversations, I very much welcome that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6916	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Fallent. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6937	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Federal Minister! High house! Mr Bartenstein, Minister of State! I think we all know that between 49 and 51 percent is not only 2%, but that it is very, very much more: It's about majority relations, it's about power in the end. If 49 percent are registered, you can't offer 51 percent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think everyone is well advised to also offer registration conformation. It must have been thought of bringing 49 percent to the invitation to tender. Mrs Sima! They call it "painful" for Jörg Haider to do a business that is more than twice as good as that done by your social democratic mayor Manzenreiter in Villach. I believe that this is more embarrassing for Mayor Manzenreiter than for the head of the state of Carinthia. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Glavischnig! Mrs Lichtenberger! They talked about the sale of water and water rights. Head of State Haider has also taken care to ensure that the water rights remain with the Carinthians through corresponding agreements and contracts that RWE's access to the Carinthian water is not given. I think you know that too. By the way, I'll tell you: It should not be added to the statements made by Mr Schweitzer. If you, Mrs. Lichtenberger, have not realized that RWE has a truly sustainable technology in mind, please read it! I believe that there is consensus on the fact that fuel cell technology is a future-oriented renewable energy form. I believe that you also know that Austria is no longer top-ranking in Europe in this field of technology. If we reach a technology location in Austria through this centre of competence, which has been offered, which is part of this partnership, which we urgently need as a country determined by hydropower, we will also be able to act on this market in Europe. - A good way, as I believe. If at the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Greens have adopted a common approach to anti-atomic policy, they must also be responsible. The past has shown that only a common approach also brings success and a lonely approach ultimately results in the failure you have to represent before people outside, especially in front of voters. I don't think that's the right way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am a person who always assumes to be able to influence and decide things about which to speak with me, and this cooperation has taken place between two companies. These cooperations are not primary, they are secondary. We must all try to create the exit from nuclear power in Europe, and these trendsetting technologies can be a good way forward. This way we will go together with RWE in Carinthia, because we believe that KELAG can also use its know-how properly. In the ElWOG, we have also provided for the corresponding regulations concerning these electricity markings. This current identification will come. But in the end, we must never do the bill without the host: It is also the consumer's decision to make the choices here. I believe that if the electricity label is given, it will be the responsibility of companies to offer nuclear-free electricity in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7010	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. He has the word at the same time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7031	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! High house! I believe that the issue of energy and anti-atomic policy should be a common concern of this House and should not be misused for party-political profiling and therefore polarisation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: From Mr. Haider!]] There are, Mrs Colleague, many fields of party-political debate, but there should also be issues of political agreement between opposition and government, and anti-atomic policy should be such a topic in the future too – a common national concern beyond party-political small coins and beyond tactical considerations of the opposition. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] The procedure agreed in the Milker process with regard to safety review and environmental impact assessment is – we must admit that! – the only way to solve the problems with the Czech Republic and to draw from them the necessary consequences. The alternative would be a demolition of the EIA and thus of the whole milking process, and by such a procedure no problem would be solved, the Temelin nuclear power plant would not be safer and would not come to the conclusion of this nuclear power plant, and only the Czech hardliners who have rejected the Temelin process from the outset would be the psychological and political beneficiaries of such a process. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Do you know that the RWE in the Czech Republic...!]] The Austrian initiatives have already triggered a significant discussion in the Czech Republic about the meaning and nonsense of temelin, which has been further strengthened by the termination of the E.ON electricity collection contract. We must rely on this process of consciousness, ladies and gentlemen, because in the end no Austrian politician can and cannot force a closure of Temelin here in Parliament. However, I would also like to say that we have undoubtedly achieved an indisputable success with the measures we have taken so far – a success that is also internationally recognised. For example, on 23.5.2001 the German Federal Minister for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety wrote the following to our Minister for the Environment Molterer: " dear Mr Molterer, I congratulate you on your success in negotiating the Czech Government in the matter of EIA Temelin in the implementation of the Milk Protocol." That is a clear language, ladies and gentlemen. What does Commissioner Verheugen say? – On the one hand, he appeals to all to continue the milking process "constructively and in good spirit". He also says that "with the EIA of the Temelin nuclear power plant agreed in Milk, Austria has achieved a great concession", and he emphasises that "the EU standards are to be met", and he says that "according to the legal situation, however, the use of civil nuclear energy was in the competence of national governments". Ladies and gentlemen! This is a full international recognition of the negotiations we have conducted with the Czech Republic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, especially those of the Greens! They should continue to exert pressure on the German Federal Government, especially on the German Environment Minister, so that he continues to support and strengthen our position at international level. This would allow you to make a big contribution to the national security interests of our country instead of delivering cheap opposition rhetoric. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] At first, my Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: As Upper Austria, I still know what bitter resistance you have opposed at the Lambach hydroelectric power plant. With all the consequence, you have called for resistance, you have protested, you have organized resistance. You have to prove to us first that your policy...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7099	I'm asking for the final sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7120	... contributes both to the security of our country and, above all, to the supply of cheap and environmentally sound electricity. In any case, you have not made this contribution so far!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7153	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7178	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Belief is one element, and the nail samples for credibility are the other element. I do not know how many times you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kukacka, Mr Kopf, but also Mr Bartenstein and Mr Bundeskanzler, have put the word credibility in the mouth, but I believe that this word is completely lacking in the place for the credibility of a policy where the sample of nails, in Carinthia, is entirely negative. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why? Explain that!]] This sample of nails has shown, Mr Schweitzer, that you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, as well as your colleagues from the ÖVP and even the colleagues from the SPÖ, should it be necessary to prove credibility if the sample of nails is to be delivered towards anti-atomic policy, in the sense of a pure electricity solution, in the sense of a non-atomic electricity in Austria, in a state of Austria, to withdraw, which wants to make large cash, a "technology leap". Completely unbelievable attempt You are going to start that – I can prove it to you immediately – by withdrawing from a line that was still undisputed with us in the early and mid-1990s. This is, for me, the crucial mistake, the decisive wrong step! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's what happened!]] That's where you clearly lost the nail sample! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That was a 3 minute nail sample now!]] I can explain this to you once again: You know, the RWE has 44 percent nuclear power. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 19!]] You know, this high nuclear current... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 19!]] Then it's the E.ON with 44 percent and the RWE with 19 percent. But still: This 19 percent atomic current is practically one fifth. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Is reduced with fuel cells!]] How do you want to reduce this fifth from today to tomorrow with your gas-driven fuel cell with micro turbine? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes, exactly!]] You have to show me that! [[Abg. May. That's done!]] Compare the whole with the introduction of the technology of wind energy! The wind energy can be established from today to tomorrow. Mr Fallent! There are good examples of this, you know better. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (on p. Ing. He's a faller, I'm a sweater!]] But it took a long time for wind power to be fed in once. According to my colleague, Mr Schweitzer, how long this technology boost has taken, you can calculate how long it takes when once the gas-powered fuel cell with micro turbine takes over 19 percent of the nuclear current that the RWE has! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Carinthia is at this technology leap!]] Calculate this once! That is why what you said today is totally unbelievable for me. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why?]] They were with us in Prague and tried to... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I initiated this! I've organized this!]] The colleague Ellmauer from Traunkirchen made the proposal to go there. He made this proposal at a committee meeting and you did it after we waited a year for it. But the point is: Your unbelievable policy will find – I fear so – another continuation. Not only have you and Mr. Landes Captain Haider fallen over, not only that the SPÖ in Carinthia is categorically fallen by – Mr. Sima regrets today what Mr. Ambrozy decided to do in Carinthia – you will also have to experience how in the water area your promises today are most likely to be sacrificed on the altar of the Mammon – that is simply and simply to say. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Me?! Incredible!]] Unfortunately, I have no more time to explain the milking process and the way in which your credibility is so to speak, even more so. I'm just saying one word: There may be common nuclear policy, and there should be joint applications in the Committee on the Environment. The initiative advance came from our side: The colleague Glawischnig has put in another nuclear application here. Whoever didn't carry it, who didn't fuck up the common line, that was you! [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: Because he was objectively wrong!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Now I know why you are only a third-party speaker in your group!]] They are eligible for the milking process from which the Germans have long gone out, because the material basis is not right. Because this is not EIA according to Western European, German standards, the Germans withdrew their experts, their experts and documented that this fig sheet "EIA management" you now want to continue in the sense of dialogue... [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's not true!]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: What is achieved with this?]] But we don't want fig leaves, we want credible politics, we want to sample nails! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7448	I declare the current hour to end. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7469	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to a written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7828	The Members of Parliament, Mr Edlingerond Comrades, asked that the written question put to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning the future of the ÖIAG be dealt with urgently 2517/J by Mr Edlinger. According to the provisions you all know, this urgent request will be made at 3 p.m. Time-limit application
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7858	I would also like to say that Members Kiss and Dr Krüger have requested one to the Constitutional Committee to report on motions 98/A to 30. The deadline was 1 year on June 2001, i.e. until 30. ==References====External links== In this context, there is a desire to have a short debate on this deadline request. In view of the prospect for today's sitting of dealing with a urgent question, the short debate on the deadline request will take place following the debate on the urgent question. The vote on the request will take place immediately after the end of the debate on the same subject. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7885	I would also like to say that Mr Reindl, Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, asked the Constitutional Committee to report on the request 438/A concerning the Pension Reform Act 2001 a deadline of up to 3. In July 2001 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote after the end of the negotiations, i.e. at the end of this sitting. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7909	I am in favour of the agenda for today's sitting of the proposal to sum up the debate on Agenda items 1 to 3, 4 to 9, 10 and 11, 14 and 15, 17 to 20 and 21 to 26. Is there any objection? – Since this is not the case, we will proceed in this way and debate the above-mentioned proposals together. I shall now go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7937	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates as follows: A day-block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 176 minutes, Freedom and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green 104 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. I'm asking: Are there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. I therefore note that this day-block speaking time has been set unanimously with the above-mentioned distribution of speaking times. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (573 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Disability Act, the Disability Employment Act and the Federal Finance Act 2001 (650 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the resolution 300/A(E) by Mr Theresia Haidlmayrund Comrades on the use of the disabled billions in the 2001 budget (652 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8006	We now come to the first three points on today's agenda, on which the debate is being held in one. A request for oral reporting is not available for one of the three templates. That is why we can go into the debate immediately. First speaker is Mrs Silhavy. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8033	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We are talking, Minister of State, now at 10:16 a.m., about the federal law that amends the Federal Disability Act, the Disability Employment Act and the Federal Finance Act 2001. Federal Minister! This time of day is for many people who start their early shift at 6 o'clock or earlier, the time when they take the jause, the so-called gift piece. Federal Minister! Yes, I didn't bring one of us, but a haferl, said in Hochdeutsche, a coffee cup. [[The speaker holds up a damaged coffee cup.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This haferl symbolizes one: the way you deal with the accident pension tax. That's exactly what this haferl symbolizes! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's funny!]] It's a flickwork, as you can see. It's broken. It's picked, but it's still not quite functional. Federal Minister! I would now like to give you symbolically this Häferl. [[The speaker hand over the mentioned coffee cup to Federal Minister Mag, sitting on the government bank. Chief.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Why are you so excited? If you had a good conscience, you could listen here quietly and smile over it, but obviously you are deeply affected because you know that I am right with this argumentation. [[Abg. Neudeck: There's nothing inside again – as in your speeches!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The bill we are discussing here today is misleadingly called "reparation of the accident pension tax". You, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, have, with better knowledge, adopted a legal measure here, namely the taxation of accident pensions, and You want to fix this pension tax again, as you say. But you know very well that this is a flicking work, that this will lead to further injustices and that you will not achieve a repair by far. Neither the arguments put forward by the disabled organisations and the disabled associations before the introduction of the taxation of accident pensions, nor the attempt by us as opposition and by us as social democrats, to point out the injustice of these measures, have changed something that you have decided in ignorance to tax the accident pensions. You knew, of course, that this is unfair, and because you knew that you decided an injustice with it, you said: But this is not so unfair, because we take away the poor of the poorest two billion schilling, but we are generous. We are not holding back the whole two billion schillings, a billion schillings we are giving back, the so-called disability billions! Ladies and gentlemen! That's pure cynicism, that's white human contempt! I wanted to tell you this again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That almost sounds like you'd want the accident pensioners to say thank you and thank you for selling these disability billions everywhere in a "biger" way and to present them as your good work. You do this, although you know that this net will still take a billion schilling away the accident pensioners and accident pensioners. I assume that you would have driven this propaganda even further, if not a certain gentleman, who was a contractual partner at the time of the arrival of this Federal Government, had at one time told you the same thing about the public, which we have always told you, namely: The accident pension tax is unfair and unfair! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But after you, Mr Schweitzer, the simple member of the party from Carinthia, said the same thing to you as the disabled, the disabled, the social democrats and the Greens – if the simple party member says something, then it still works quite well with you – you have decided: There's something you have to do! All of a sudden, in your vocabulary there were words such as hardness compensation, repair; all of a sudden, these words have come out of your mouth more and more often. You call this flickwork that you offer us here and you want to tell us that you eliminate injustices with it, today also great repair. Federal Minister! This law, which is called repair, creates new injustices, and you know that very well. All people who will have an accident at work after the 1st century. On July 1, 2001, this tax was hit in unrestricted hardness. That is where those measures which you have precisely defined in an amendment amendment, Mr Feurstein, are no longer in force. ==References====External links==* Official website No more hardness this year, are they just before? Can you tell me where there is justice? – I can’t explain that, but you may be able to do that. You will, I suppose, go to the speaker's desk. Federal Minister! Or what are the benefits of a self-employed person? – A self-employed person usually knows only after two years how much taxes he pays. He can claim them for three years, you're right. But does he now advance the tax for two years to the Minister of Finance by paying the accident pension tax for two years, but this can only be asserted afterwards? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] Mr Feurstein! He doesn't know what he's paying for the tax before, or he's got to pay it back because he's got too much. But you will certainly explain this to us. It is probably just as illogical as any other action you intend to take in this bill. Moreover, the accident pensioners who claim this have a very serious disadvantage, because they have to pass a red tape sample, Mr. Federal Minister. You have told us in a question answer how many posts more it takes to make this donation possible. That's an administrative monster, but you're always talking about the slim state! But where it is about your measures to your flicking works, about your chaos, is no longer saved, there is powdered out instead of making a repair that would be fair, namely taking back a non-social measure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this act there is something else hidden. Thus, one is proud of the FPÖ and of the ÖVP that one has raised the compensation tax. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: From the sides! Not from the side!]] You're particularly proud of this. [[Abg. Gaugg: What you have failed for years!]] - That's right! But we didn't do one thing: We have not sold the interests of the disabled people who want to work – unlike you, Mr Cot! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Explain!]] I like to explain it to you, but I'm afraid it doesn't make much sense for you, but I'm trying to repeat it, because I'm a human being who likes other people. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Oh yes! Oh, yes!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For a long time, the economy has demanded that the trial period be doubled in the case of the disabled. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Long! Third case! Dativ!]] That's what you did. You said that the compensatory tax would be increased. [[Congratulations on the part of a member of the ÖVP.]] It is also significant that an economic chamberer claps to it, that says everything. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] They raised the compensation tax and extended the testing period for disabled people in exchange for this purpose. You have betrayed the interests of these people, and you have not spoken to the disabled organisations, Mr. Feurstein, because you know that the disabled organisations are still opposed. That is incorrect what you have told us in committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] I do not think it appropriate, Mr. Feurstein – I always thought you were a serious politician – for you to tell us things that do not correspond to the facts and to move back to a Life Help Association, instead of taking, for example, the ÖAR and other associations. I think that's embarrassing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Don't twist things! That is incorrect, Mrs Colleague, what you have done!]] – No, the wrong thing was what you told us, Mr Feurstein! I deeply regret this because I think that social policy should be relegated and not populism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The seriousness, Mr Drinkl, is not just a matter for the economy, and that is obviously your position. This is particularly true in social policy, in order to represent the interests of workers and to achieve a balance of interests. What you're doing is not balanced. They represent only the interests of the economy and leave the people who need the legal situation embarrassing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Who says that?]] Mr. Drinkl! Perhaps you would like to hear the comments of Professor Mazal on this question. Professor Mazal gave a rather interesting interview in this regard. On the question of whether this tax repair would mean new hardness, for example, he said that he would not judge it because what a hardness is, unless a political decision. – That’s interesting! But then he adds that, of course, it can happen – he also predicts by an example – that people feel unfairly treated right after this repair. But I would like to quote something interesting from Professor Mazal's statement. On the question of whether this regulation will be legal, he quotes Professor Öhlinger. In a television interview, Professor Öhlinger said that the accident pension tax was a constitutional wire rope. – A constitutional wire rope, ladies and gentlemen! You're not thinking about that? – Professor Mazal says that he believes that the wire rope act has not become more harmless through this hardening system. Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean? – That means nothing but that well-known people from science tell you that what you are doing here is constitutionally a very worrying act. That is what we have already said to you, and I am afraid it will be the same as the accident pension repair in which you first crossed where you have not allowed any arguments at all or at least ignored them. You're making a repair, which you know is exactly that she's a shredded pile, that she's a flicking work, like this haferl it is. There will be nothing left to you but to repair this repair in a few months. I have to tell you: It is not worthy of Austrian legislation what you are presenting here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You didn't use your speaking time well! You didn't use your speaking time well!]] Ladies and gentlemen! To change your mind... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Dr. Pumberger! It's better if you're silent, because you don't understand anything about social policy, and as a doctor, I don't want you either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is nevertheless an attempt – as we said, we love people, and man is at the heart of our policy – to convince you to accept a motion for a resolution from us. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Feurstein! You know that this is the only way to restore social justice. I'm appealing to Your reason – if not your heart, but your reason –: Voices Let us ask you to do this. You know, with the 4 800 S you've actually secured the disabled billions for years inside. You know very well that the extension of the probationary period is a social hardship for disabled people – and we note that unemployment is not going down to the extent that it was the case in the first months of your reign. Therefore, my appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ: If you don't let the heart speak, at least let reason!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8361	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8385	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Silhavy: Ah, why isn't the Gaugg talking?]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Smile and be friendly!]] Symbolically for the state of the SPÖ, a cup went too broken – symbolic for the shredded pile in the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] I would like to give you a whole cup back, Mrs Silhavy, so that you can all be in the closet again. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Huber: That's a naughtiness!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's his level!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We know the request you have just made from his content to the satisfaction. This is a former request made by Mr Gusenbauer – but I miss him today – who, in the reasoning for this request for the abolition of the accident pension tax, said that people with disabilities would lose a total of 2 billion schilling by this tax. – This statement is wrong! He forgets the billions of disabled people, and he forgets the compensation for the hardships to be decided on today. Furthermore, he writes in this his request, most of those people who receive a low pension, guessed by the taxation of the accident pension in financial difficulties. – That is not true either, because compensation is being created today for those people who receive a low pension. It also states that the SPÖ has rejected the taxation of accident pensions from the outset. – That is not true either, because the SPÖ was the first party to have been responsible for the taxation of accident pensions with Social Minister Geppert and Finance Minister Lacina in 1988, because they wanted to establish equal rights for accident pensioners! [[Abg. Silhavy: Dr. Pumberger! The responsibility for what is decided today is yours! It's much worse!]] Mrs Silhavy! Don't yell like that! Cry You do not, because of social justice you have the very little idea in SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the case of accident pensions, for example, farmers pay four times as high contributions as officials, but the average accident rate for farmers is 2 050 S, while in the case of public servants the average accident rate is 5 213 S. This is the social justice of the Social Democrats! All of these are regulations that the Socialists have made in 30 years of social policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Also with screams and overcrowding of the vote You can't scream that away! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The average full-time pension for officials is 20 254 p.m. for farmers 11 823 p. This is equal rights for the Socialists! – to mention just a few figures, Mrs Silhavy. [[Abg. Silhavy: There's someone outside who doesn't know what he's talking about!]] – Save your calls, you have already disqualified yourself! This Federal Government has already achieved a mastery in disability policy in this short period of time. There are substantial improvements, and there has already been substantial improvements for our disabled people. [[Abg. Huber: Master performance à la Pumberger!]] As a doctor, I can tell you that the concerns of the disabled people are very dear to me. I have to deal with people with disabilities every day in my practice, and I know what I'm talking about, while you're just walking in here.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8541	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8557	There will be a new structure of the support fund for our disabled people, which will lead to an acceleration and simplification of procedures. The Federal Minister makes regular reports for our disabled people. The compensation tax will be increased by 700 S, Mrs Silhavy. The protection of the disabled is amended in the sense of the disabled. In the sense of the disabled! [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr. Pumberger! People will measure you by the actions!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Kind smile!]] The disabled billion is a milestone for our disabled. Surprising people get 50 percent supplement to their veneration pension. The care allowance is made possible from birth for our disabled children. Quality assurance in care is included in the law. There is an improvement in the right to supply in a significant way. Now 60,000 disabled people receive 600 million schilling tax relief. 600 million Schilling get 60,000 disabled! That is an average of 10 000 S, Mrs Silhavy. [[Abg. Silhavy: And to whom will they be excluded from the social budget?]] If you can't get there and want the total cancellation of the accident pension within the meaning of your total opposition policy, then you have to purchase that you want to abolish the disability billions again and that you don't want to increase the highest paid pension either. You have to tell the people! Up to a total annual income of 230 000 S, no one will have to pay only one shilling of disability tax. This is a social compensation that our Federal Government has created. We can be proud of that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] No one under this 230 000 S-income limit shall be covered by this tax. This is ensured by today's decision-making of this government template. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! General injustice exists in the law of invalidity in Austria. We must put this right of invalidity at new levels. Now we are overcoming the hardships, now we are helping the severely injured, and for our disabled, we are creating new jobs. That's our job! The success of this new federal government is certain!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8641	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The clock is set to 12 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8662	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am not even advocating the debate, the social spokesperson of the liberals, otherwise absent from illness on such issues, and Mr Pumberger takes over the social policy concerns of the Liberal Group. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] This has to be broken down on the tongue: that a person with as much social sensitivity as Mr Pumberger can be found here and is absolutely cynical about how socially the Freedom Party is in the area of accident pensions, how much and how much the Freedom Party and its ÖVP are willing to break constitutional law when it comes to taxing the accident pensioners. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I want your problems!]] One hears and marvels, Mr Pumberger – which is probably not a random promise from him – has even spoken of an accident tax. . Yes, we can imagine this, Mr Pumberger, that the accident tax in your policy is the next thing you will introduce, that if you had an accident, you will have to pay for it. Now only the accident pensioners are on it. Only: Those who have been damaged at their workplace must pay. You have to pay for budget recovery. No one, ladies and gentlemen, who has a family with an accident pension understands this scheme. No one in Austria will also understand this complicated hardness balance, with which you try to overcome social injustices and the constitutional injustices, to iron over them. One thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: They will not be able to explain why one who had an accident before 30.6.2001 is different from the one who will have an accident at work on 1.7.2001. You will not be able to make it clear that your regulation with the hard-term compensation fund, located at the Ministry of Social Affairs, does not create new bureaucracy, to an extent that is incomprehensible. You will not be able to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that you will be able to bring in such a system of taxation, which should initially bring in 2 billion schilling, but according to your own milkmaid bill because of the disabled billions of schilling less income and now add 600 million shillings less, so in total, only 400 million shillings will be able to defend extra income to the Minister of Finance, with so much vehemence and cynicism. You can only have the impression that you are really concerned about damaging the accident pensioners and the accident pensioners a second time after their accident at work. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We could say a lot to the Minister for Social Affairs, too: Where's the famous Mazal report? Minister Chief! Where's he going? – You know, there was originally a report on social security. From this, the government – indiscriminately cannot be said – has taken action, including the taxation of accident pensions, and has gone through them. Then Mr. Haider says these experts can stay stolen from us, all that the experts have found out is stupid. Then, according to Haider, only the expert who is responsible for stupidity is assigned to correct the old accident pension scheme. What's going on? – The report of this expert disappears again in the drawer, and an accident pension reform will be decided which obviously has nothing to do with the report of the expert or the expert. Federal Minister! Put the report on the table by the experts or experts, Mr Mazal! Why did you refuse the debate in public? Why were they? You are not willing and able to discuss with all those who were quite a sense of mind with you? – It should be possible to tax anything, but it must be socially fair, and there are still proposals to do so, including in the area of accident pensions. Even if I do not agree with these proposals on taxation, as Mr Rudda has suggested in the field of self-employed social security, I must say: These proposals have hands and feet, they're thought-out. If you read these proposals by Dr. Rudda, you know one thing: This regulation, Dr. Feurstein, which you now decide, is just as unconstitutional as the wretched work you have decided before. As nothing but misery, it is to be said that the accident pensioners are asked to pay for the failure that you too have to answer in the budget and that Mr. Dr. stupidly has to answer. Be honest! They make the accident pensioners pay for a budget deficit. You explained that openly. They're causing accident pensioners and accident pensioners to be fined for having an accident at work. You didn't explain that openly, but you do. They do not create what you pretend to create, namely social security and social justice, but they thus create social popularity and cynicism as the principle of action of your policies and your federal government. The new principle of action of the Federal Government is: social popularity and cynicism towards those who deserve the solidarity of this House and politics, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I also tell you why this is so; I have already explained it to you several times. The explanations for the accident pension also explain why it is introduced, namely as a contribution to better social symmetry, to the equality of taxation, to the strengthening of tax justice. Mr. Feurstein nods about that. [[Abg. Dolinschek: To eliminate inequalities!]] He knows, as do all the other members of these government parties, but very well, that pensions are excluded in the area of the army. I know these my precepts were unpleasant to you. You have led to you perhaps dealing yourself with the question of why pensions under the Army Supply Act are tax-free. Therefore, there is now also a comment in the explanations on this repair, and as you explain that this can be made comparable but is not comparable. – Interesting! I'll tell you something, Dr. Feurstein: You know just as well as I do that private accident pensions, especially if they are taken as a one-time amount, so if I pay privately to be able to get a pension or a one-time benefit in the event of an accident, are tax-free. You know that. Everyone in the Republic knows this, and every tax advisor knows that too. Of course, the legislator says if it's a pension, then you have to pay taxes, but no one can actually guarantee this tax return because it doesn't know the financial. Therefore, everyone within the financial system and also every tax advisor will have to confirm to me that, if they are paid as pensions, private accident pensions will have to be taxed, but not taxed. If I cash the private accident pension as a one-time return, then she doesn't have to be taxed anyway. Exciting! That's what you call social justice, that if you finish a private accident pension, you don't have to pay a tax?- Oh, my God! Then Mr Westenthaler tells me that it is unfair for someone with an accident pension and income to have 25 000 S or 30 000 S, that it is unfair for him to receive so much pension. But he does not speak of the one who earns 50,000 S or 100 000 S and perhaps pays 5 000 S monthly premium for a private accident insurance and then has a yield of 5 million or 10 million schilling in the case of the case. He's not talking about that, because that would be a little unpleasant. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: The comparison is limping!]] If we put this into the debate, we would insist that our tax system knows a number of such injustices. It would also come about – and there are also fine examples in Mr Rudda's contribution to accident pensions – that, for example, the person receiving 25 000 S income plus accident pension will have to pay more taxes in the future by 2 000 S to 3 000 S, although the accident pension is only 5 000 S. This person has nothing at all from the hardness balance, it does not benefit from it at all. Ladies and gentlemen! What you've done with the hardness balance is Push. This is linked to a form of cynicism towards the disabled. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: This is fundamental opposition!]] I just need to look at the rules that have already been mentioned, such as doubling the probation period and increasing the compensation tax which is now being reintroduced into this repair scheme. All of this is a cynicism towards the disabled, who are initially asked to pay for the checkout and then receive a small fee from what the state generates as a profit. They should receive a silent money to keep their mouth shut once and for all when you produce further social injustices. But my colleague, Haidlmayr, will also explain to you that this will not happen. Neither the disabled nor their associations nor the opposition, nor those who believe in social justice in this country and do not speak the word of social popularity will be allowed to do so. I am sure in this case that the Constitutional Court will not give you its blessing.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8761	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8782	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In consulting this novel on the taxation of accident pensions, which we have decided today, we have dealt very closely with the constitutional concerns expressed by Professor Öhlinger, Professor Mazal, but also by other experts who have contributed to the deliberations. Ladies and gentlemen! You know very well that, for this reason, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has tabled an amendment which takes account of these constitutional concerns. We have proposed a correct solution, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not getting into the shoes that we wouldn't have taken these concerns into account. That is a correct solution, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the Greens! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Hardness cases are first taken into account. That's the first one. That is why we have introduced the limit of 230 000 S of annual income. Until this annual income, the wage tax paid or paid shall be refunded in full. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Can be refunded!]] - That's not true! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) They say the untruth against better knowledge. The word "can" is not in the draft law. It says that it will be refunded, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Silhavy: As determined!]] I won't let you like such false settings anymore, not even you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have already told you, Mrs Haidlmayr, that you always argue incorrectly. The amendment clearly states that it will be refunded. [[Abg. Huber: As determined! You do not know your own amendment!]] That is clearly stated. We oppose your misconceptions. This is an incorrectness, ladies and gentlemen, which you are constantly expressing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Next point: In the case of annual incomes over 230 000 S, there is a grinding system, so that income of 230 000 S is definitely guaranteed. – We have taken all constitutional aspects into account. In addition, we have taken into account the personal situation of the person concerned, such as family relationships, whether maintenance benefits should be paid. It was also taken into account in the discussions here in the House, namely the relationship between own income, i.e. income without an accident pension, and the amount of the accident pension. In the case of a person with a low own income because he was accidented very early, but gets a high accident pension, the relationship between the two incomes is taken into account, and there is a refund of the wage tax that he had to pay or have to pay. This important point has been fully taken into account, ladies and gentlemen. We have also taken into account the commitments of the person concerned. Even though he had to adapt his apartment, create living space, make purchases in order to promote mobility: All these things are taken into account in addition. The individual and personal situation of the person concerned will be taken into account – that is, what the Constitutional Court criticised in 1992 when repealing your law. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! We're not going to blame cynicism here. This is an insolence that you show. [[Abg. Silhavy: Who was still in the government in 1988?]] This is not cynism, but a practical, reasonable and correct solution, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Next point: We are always accused by you of being bureaucratic. Ladies and gentlemen! Who has introduced this procedure that we are applying here? – It was introduced under Minister Dallinger when the National Fund for People with Disabilities was created. [[Abg. Silhavy: You!]] This procedure in the National Fund is now being simplified on the basis of a proposal by Minister Haupt, which is considerably simplified. The Fund is now called "Support Fund for People with Disabilities". A reasonable, simpler procedure is now taking place. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: An alms procedure!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the 1990s, the Ministers of the SPÖ proposed a standard excise duty, which is refunded. A reimbursement of taxes that disabled people have to pay. It is carried out through this fund, through this Federal Disability Act. That's exactly what we're doing here. We use an instrument that has proved successful for more than ten years. You will not be able to keep me from saying that the reimbursement of the standard excise duty would not have worked, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. She's working! In the same way, the reimbursement of the wage tax will work. There is a self-binding of the federal government built in. I am opposed to premise that the individual official would have to decide according to discretion or discretion. On the contrary: Self-employment, which is required in the context of private administration, has the same effect on the person concerned as a notice, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: What about legal protection?]] Legal protection is given by the supervisory complaint. You know very well that a supervisory complaint to the Ministry of Social Affairs is possible. If the official of the Federal Social Office decides incorrectly, Mr Klubobmann will be in line with this wrong decision as part of the supervisory complaint. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You deny 150 years of rule of law...!]] – The supervisory complaint is the instrument. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Chamber Justice is your goal!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They criticize the disabled billions. What about these disabled billions we're on 1st? Is it possible for the Commission to take the necessary steps to take to ensure that the Community's policies are implemented in a way that is compatible with the internal market? – Some 1,200 personal integration aids have already been granted. 500 work aid schemes have been granted. Over 500 job adaptations have been carried out. 3 000 disabled people have already been directly helped. In view of this, do you call these disability billions cynism, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! The opposite is the case: It's an excellent measure. I understand that you are somewhat jealous of this measure, which this Federal Government has put forward to help people with disabilities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oils: Envy – a little joke!]] But I'll tell you again: We are proud that we have been able to take this measure, and we are pleased that we are doing so in this way – yes, I am delighted! – can help disabled people. [[Abg. Edler: There you don't need to be proud!]] [[Abg. Edler: Shame!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: This is cynicism! What you say is cynicism!]] I am pleased that this will help people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen! The increase in the compensatory tax is also a measure in favour of the disabled, a matter which we have been discussing over and over again for many years. Now the compensation tax is increased by more than 20 percent, i.e. around a quarter. Let me also say something to change the protection of termination: I know that there are disabled organisations that are in favour of extending the protection of termination from three months to six months which require the vehement. There are disabled organisations that are more skeptical of this measure. Some disabled organisations want a complete change in the protection of termination, which is also known to you. I believe that this extension to six months is a very reasonable measure to which we stand. We insist that six months now can be tested whether a disabled person has a chance in working life or not. I'll tell you: This measure will give many young people the first opportunity to enter their working life. Overall, we can be satisfied with this measure. We will disarm and eliminate all the major concerns raised against this tax. We will provide the disabled people with a new opportunity to prove themselves in working life and thus become even more equal members of our society.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9017	The next speaker in this debate is the Federal Minister. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9038	Ladies and gentlemen! It's been since 1. In January 2001, it was shown that the taxation of accident pensions leads to social hardships. The law to be adopted today will compensate for these hardships in a wide range of areas. I am grateful to all those ladies and gentlemen of the House who, with today's decision-making, will make available to disabled people in Austria a total of 600 million schilling so that these hardships can be offset in the future. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] I would also like to point out that from 2003 onwards, the regulations in the compensation tax fund will make available to disabled people a total of 230 million schillings per year, by providing them with individual grants as wage subsidies, in the integrative establishments available to protected workshops, or by allowing support after victim care and project funding. Thus, about one quarter of the volume of today's disability billions will be secured in the long term, including beyond this legislative period. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has been said by Mr Silhavy and by Mr Ollinger on social justice, but also on the expertise of Professor Mazal. I can already point out that on page 19 of the expertise of Professor Mazal of the 18th century. In September 2000, which is available to you all, under point 3.2.5 – Taxation of pensions from accident insurance – the following is mentioned: "In the context of the discussion on pension benefits from statutory accident insurance, the question was raised as to why benefits from statutory accident insurance are tax-free. This is noticeable both in comparison to the tax requirement for invalidity pensions and in comparison to the tax obligation for pensions from private accident insurance." Ladies and gentlemen! There can therefore be no doubt that, within the framework of fiscal justice, the introduction of the taxation of accident pensions was quite in conformity with the system. I would like to add the following to Mr Öllinger's statement: The injured pension under the Military Supply Act is financed from the budget. This is why, Mr Oellinger, it is a transfer service. All transfers that are currently paid are tax-free, so there is also the system conformity here – an opinion which, by the way, University Professor Lang has shared in an expertise on this point. If you look at the whole thing from the point of view of tax justice, you have to say, I think, that it is system-compliant and also coherent. On the questions you raised in connection with constitutionality. – The Federal Government assumes – and I am grateful to Mr Feurstein, too – that, taking into account the amendments tabled, the present legislative project will stand up to every audit. But I also say quite clearly: Not every – not every one! – Enforcement before the Constitutional Court is already an annulled. It is the right of every individual in this rule of law, if he believes that he has found constitutional irregularities to have them checked by a Supreme Court. The decision of the Supreme Court will, of course, also be to be examined by the Federal Government or to implement it. [[Abg. Silhavy: Also those of the Administrative Court?]] As far as the debate on the six-month period is concerned, Mrs Silhavy, I can tell you that many people with disabilities who have been trying to work for years then, if, according to labour law, they have had to report that they are among the most favoured disabled, they have lost this job, which they have already had. [[Abg. Silhavy: But you do not solve this by these measures, Minister!]] In this context, the economy pointed out that the short trial period of three months is a significant obstacle, a significant barrier to getting out of unemployment. It is also necessary to see that disabled people have a significantly lower fluctuation in terms of jobs than all other groups of workers, and that the membership of businesses is higher than in all other categories of workers. This enlargement from three to six months cannot therefore be considered to be a deterioration of the disabled people in this Republic. The Federal Government considers this measure necessary in the sense of reducing barriers to people who are unemployed in order to allow them the way into employment and thus the way to their own working life and to their own entitlement to claim also in respect of retirement. After numerous discussions with people with disabilities and also from discussions with many people from the disabled associations, I know that this is not only critical, but also that, as Mr Feurstein has already mentioned in the Committee, there is understanding of this step. And if you, Mrs Silhavy, have criticized the increase in the compensation tax from 2 060 to 2 700 S, I should like to point out that this compensatory tax increase is the highest that has existed since the introduction of the compensatory taxes. [[Abg. Silhavy: I have not criticized the increase, Minister!]] Considering the annual valorizations, it will be noted that this increase in the compensation tax is equivalent to a valorization effect of eight to ten years. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the disabled are waiting for this law to be passed here today. My ministry's correspondence with the disabled, with those who were severely affected by taxation, with the hardships, makes it clear that the disabled people expect to improve their situation, but also greater justice, through today's decision-making of this law. You, Mrs Silhavy, have handed me a piece of a crockery. – The piece that you presented to me – symbolically – is the piece that has left me the social democracy in the field of disability law as a whole. Mrs Silhavy! You can't agree that it's fair for a sweater who lost an eye in the fourth academic year to get 30 per cent of a 400 s for this lifelong damage, while someone who has 40 000 s of income and suffers the same work accident has an unevenly higher sum. You cannot agree that there is justice in this area if you make the amount of benefits due to disability and lifelong suffering dependent on income at the time of the entry into each disability. I therefore set up a working group in agreement with the Federal Government, in which I am grateful to the disabled organisations and all the social partners to reorganise the entire right to disabled persons in Austria, also in the sense that there is equal compensation and equal pain payments for the same disability. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: It creates inequalities at the same time!]] Mrs Silhavy! I believe that very many disabled people in Austria are rightly putting their hope in this working group that they are waiting for the right of disabled people, which is often unfair and piecemeal in Austria, to be put on a better basis in the future. And I also believe, Mrs Silhavy, that it would be good for you to cooperate here with you and also the organisations you are representing, because many disabled people know – including the deliberations of the Chamber of Workers, the discussions of the trade union – how unfairly, today, the disability sector is compensation for the damage suffered. It should also be remembered that in the past there have also been a lot of legendal education in the context of disability law, the tax freedom of disabled pensions. If you look at the past of the right of disabled persons, the partial introduction of taxes in the 1980s and the abolition of this by the Constitutional Court of Justice, it should be noted that this has not been lifted because the overall tax would be unconstitutional, but because the 20 per cent base amount at that time was an unfit instrument, which you clearly wrote off from England, where there is a similar exemption from the tax on temporary invalidity pensions. But, as we know, this is not sustainable in Austrian law. I therefore believe that we all do well to put the right of disabled people in Austria on a new basis, because what we have is sufficient in many respects, but on many points it is also considered unfair by the disabled. It is also considered unfair that the current difference in the rules should be made according to when and where a disability occurred, whether in leisure, household, unpaid or paid work. I therefore believe that it is time to finally put the right of disability on a new basis, and I hope that the work of the Committee and the above-mentioned working group with the fixed time horizon, namely autumn 2002, will give us a suitable instrument for the future to pay off the benefits of disabled people in this Republic. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is the objective of the Federal Government and of the ladies and gentlemen who are behind these regulations so that social hardships can be offset in the meantime. And something else about bureaucracy: We have made sure that the bureaucracy is pushed back in the reorganisation of the Support Fund for People with Disabilities. It is only more important to review amounts from the entire area of the disabled organisations once a year, so that we can transfer smaller amounts, which have often reached the recipients with delays of up to 16, 17 months, faster and more unbureaucratically than in the past. I am also convinced that ladies and gentlemen, officials in the Federal Social Offices will be able to, on the basis of the possibilities offered by the computer connection with the Ministry of Finance and the accident insurance institutions, and with the corresponding information on the documentation they need to transfer support from the Fund, to take these claims into account as quickly as possible and as unbureaucratically as possible. By the way, disabled people in Austria will have the opportunity to carefully review these measures, and the self-engagement of the Federal Government will also exclude what the ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group submit to us: that the disabled people have become beneficiaries of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs. No, there will be a fair solution: Where hardships have occurred, each of their incomes will be compensated accordingly. That is the goal of this law – and that is good!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9141	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Plank. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9162	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Federal Minister, you said that it proved to be severe after the accident pension tax. In October 2000, we told you this for the first time – and then many, many times. But you simply denied this fact, you did not want to take note of it. Dr. Feurstein! On the other hand, you have held back that you are accused of cynicism from our side, and you have pointed out that instead of "can be refunded" it now means "will be refunded". That's right, but that doesn't have any significant effects as long as it says: Grants may be granted in accordance with the appropriations available for this purpose. In accordance with the available resources, and when the money is out, nothing will be granted. So it is in your text: according to the means. Mr. Dr. Feurstein, that is, as long as there is money; and if there is no more, there is no more. And by the way, I wonder, Dr. Feurstein, what it can mean if you say: I'm not going to be blamed by you, nor by you, Mrs. Haidlmayr! What does "not even yours" mean? Is that another colleague among the Members? Why not "also" by Mrs. Haidlmayr? Dr. Pumberger, some corrections to your claims. – The SPÖ withdrew the planned accident pension tax in 1988, in front of in-force competitions, because it was criticised. Dr. Pumberger, the accident pensioners are reduced to 2 billion schilling, even if one billion of these are said to go into the disability offensive. The accident pensioners will once be scrapped 2 billion schilling. Dr. Pumberger, when two thirds of the accident pensioners are now distributed to alms, the remaining 40 000 accident pensioners pay the 1.4 billion required, i.e. 35 000 S per accident pensioner, Dr. Pumberger! Mr Dr. Pumberger! Personal insults from colleagues – I quote a little: Creese, coffins, screams, overwhelming voices – do not make your arguments more true. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Dr. Pumberger, as a doctor, you would be obliged to look closely at and analyze and not to continue the PR campaign, such as those pseudo-cib campaigns that are on television, for this unsocial policy here. Dr. Pumberger, you have boasted that now, on average, 10,000 s would be returned to the taxed accident pensioners. A few weeks ago, you argued that anyone pays so much tax at all. Now boast that 10,000 S will be repaid. – Dr. Pumberger, finally take off your rosarote glasses if you evaluate your own policy! Dr. Pumberger, you said you were overcoming hardship with your policy now. You've created the hardness! You're pretending someone might have caused these hardships to arise. You have created the hardships with this accident pension tax, and now you say: We're overcoming hardness. They try to repair and puss at it horribly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dr. Pumberger, you and your government have created the hardness and are now distributing alms. Then: We know that the accident pension tax is unfair and unfair, we know; that the repair is all the worse, we know; that the regulation is now creating new injustices, we know; that the Constitutional Court will examine the accident pension tax, we know; that you, Mr. Federal Minister, have had no answer to the question of what you will do if the Constitutional Court tipped the accident pension tax, we also know; perhaps we will get an answer to this question. And that for more than half a year, we have been calling for the abolition of the accident pension tax, you all know that anyway. Even the "Mölzer" sheet takes care of the FPÖ again and says: Is country finally in sight for the FPÖ? This is the subject of accident pensions: Well, speed kills also hold the sense – what we have always said: speed kills social policy, speed kills. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you yourself have said several times that you are not happy about the "solution" with the accident pension tax repair. But they don't mind. And I mean, the presentations are always revealing in the committee. Dr. Feurstein, you said there you would work even better than you already plan to include the personal situation of the accident pensioners. – I claim that there is even more chance, and then it is even more goodwill and only depends on whether you want to help. I say that wanting to help is not the task of a federal government, but of making just policies to make socially just policies. That would be your mission, with legal claim, and not giving grants and distributing bread of grace, Mr. Dr. Feurstein – that is what you do with this regulation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not know any accident pensioner, no accident pensioner, Mr. Federal Minister – even if you are constantly talking about such a person – who would approve of your solution. But I say: We discuss the basic system of accident pensions; we clarify whether there is a compensation or not; we explain whether injustices arise, depending on when an accident at work has occurred. And in this context, Mr Federal Minister, we are also talking about risk of poverty. They have presented a plan to combat poverty, but there are only two answers in it: Childcare money and disability billions – and not a word about the many new poverty cases that have just arisen and are still to arise through measures of your policy. There you would have us as a partner and as a partner if you wanted to discuss this with us, but I fear you don't want us there at all. You could have also had us as a partner in the discussion about increasing the compensation tax fund. You know that; we've been demanding it for a long time. But this deal, which has now been made at the compensation tax fund, first suspend the index adjustment for a few years and then increase by 600 S and a few "crushes": This is a sum that will not really hurt the economy, but it will not motivate it to employ more or more disabled people now. It may also have needed support and programs that show entrepreneurs that it can be valuable to have disabled people as dedicated employees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé! I always listen very carefully to what people say. They were the ones who spoke on the Committee for the extension of the probationary period with this horrendous deal ATF increase and said: A long-term demand of the economy has been fulfilled here, because the entrepreneurs were afraid that they would no longer get rid of their disabled. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] You said it in the committee: Entrepreneurs are afraid to stop getting rid of the disabled people. Now they can employ them for six months – other people say: exploit – and after six months they can say: Goodbye, thank you – the next disabled person!, and then perhaps still knock on the shoulder for that. This cynical game, Mr. Federal Minister, is very transparent! However, you have also spoken of a period of probation for the disabled – not of probation, you have said "promulgation period" – and now there is a period of probation for the disabled. I would have to say a few things to the disabled billion, unfortunately my speaking time is over. Here, too, you have only provided us with numbers about projects. We do not yet know exactly how many people can be employed in addition, how many of them in the first labour market, how many can stay and how long? Because there are only two years of money. So there are probably numbers about projects, but how many people so far are beneficiaries, we don't know that. – Very thin, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9328	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9350	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Under the 2001 budget accompanying law, pensions from accident insurance were provided by 1st. No longer exempt from taxation in January 2001. And as a social suspension with regard to the inclusion of the accident pension in the tax liability, at the same time, the additional pension for heavy-earners was significantly increased at the beginning of the year, i.e. to 50 per cent of the paid pension, if at least 70 per cent of the employment is reduced, and by 20 per cent, if there is a reduction in employment below 70 per cent. This makes it possible for severely injured persons to receive a 100 percent of the basis of assessment. The aim is to eliminate inequalities in the system and to bring about equality between accident pension and invalidity pension, because, so far, there has been an uneven treatment of these two benefits. Just one example: If someone receives an invalidity pension of 25 000 S grossto, he has obtained net 20 200 S. In the case of a gross accident pension of 25 000 s, he also receives grossly 25 000 S. In my opinion, unfair and unsocial is that the accident pension was dependent on previous income and not on the degree of disability. That is, if someone in his training as an apprentice or as a skilled worker has been separated a finger by an accident at work, he has got much less than someone who has lost a finger as an official on a mission trip through a traffic accident. That's the big difference, and that's unfair and unsocial. The accident pension must not depend on income, but only on the degree of invalidity or disability. The new definition is still being implemented in this legislative period. Of course, it can't be like people with a low income from the accident pension coming to the handcushion, and now you take care of it. It must not be that someone with an income of up to 20,000 s per month gets less than before. This additional burden on an accident pensioner at an income to be taxed of 230 000 s per year will be recovered once a year by the Federal Social Offices on request. In the case of income above 230 000 S per year, a partial charge, i.e. a grinding arrangement, is provided, up to an income of approximately 245,000 S. This reimbursement is effected by the Federal Social Offices, as is the case with the standard consumption levy for disabled persons. In addition, the coalition and the Federal Government have invested one billion in the largest offensive to create job opportunities for disabled people. Disability billions are invested for work assistance, for vocational guidance, for young people to get them from school to a job and to integrate them into the work process. Furthermore, this federal government is promoting the integration of disabled people into the working world, and it has also set its priorities. For example, the Federal Government will provide for the increase of the current quota of 600 disabled jobs in general part of the establishment plan for 2001, which has already been fully exploited – it will provide for long-term new applications – to provide for another 50 planning sites, which are also necessary. For this reason, I am now tabling the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, funds are made available for quality assurance in the field of care money and for better social security for caregivers. Simplification and acceleration of procedures for disabled people, improvement of the continuing unsatisfying employment situation and an increase in the compensatory tax by 30 percent, from 2 060 S to 2 700 S. And the period until the special termination protection is achieved, which has today been criticised by social democratic and green sides, will be extended from three months to six months. This has also been a requirement of the disabled organisations, because the disadvantaged people are not recruited precisely because of the special protection of the notice of termination in the establishments. This is actually the problem, and this new regulation gives the disadvantaged people the opportunity to be integrated into the work process and earn their own money. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Now we know!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are important improvements for the disabled. And if you think a little bit about it, you have to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9421	The amendment tabled by Mrs Gaugg, Dr. Feurstein and colleagues, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Haidlmayr spoke as next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9453	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to say something right at first. Mrs Plank said: "Woman Dr. Haidlmayr." I want to tell you, I'm not a doctor, I don't have a title, and I don't need a title either. With the Greens you can also make very good politics without having a title. [[Abg. Neudeck: Not just with the greens!]] – In the case of the liberals it is more difficult again, otherwise they would not acquire titles they do not have. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would not have said so otherwise, but you almost forced me to clarify this in this way, and that is why I did so. But now to this law, which is to be taken here in a few hours, for the revision of the Law on Disability and the Federal Disability Act. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know how much Mr Pumberger understands about health policy, but that is not the subject today. But one thing I can say: You do not understand anything about disability policy, Mr Pumberger. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: He's a doctor, please!]] Because you are not even able to separate between disability and disease. Otherwise you wouldn't say... [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: But go!]] It's just like that! I probably don't know what's going on, but that's how it is. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Read the law!]] All that has been tried so positively by the government parties today to bring about these changes in the laws of the population, all that, ladies and gentlemen, is simply not true. You do not need to boast that you have increased the pension from accident insurance for people who are more than 70 percent disabled. You don't need to boast for that. You have only done so in order to be able to deduct taxes from this amount as well. Don't pretend that's a positive thing! That's the only way you can do it for your control pot. Den In fact, compensation must be paid for accident insurance, and the taxes paid by the Minister of Finance. That is the difference, ladies and gentlemen. There's nothing to beautify, so it's quite easy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Feurstein – he has probably already left the hall for good reasons – has told us all the time that accident pensioners would recover their taxes from the former so-called Social Fund, now aid fund for disabled people. This is also the white untruth, because there is no legal claim to this refund, which is not a refund, but only more "appendice". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Dr. Drinkl]] And I am now quoting you § 33: "In accordance with the funds available for this purpose, grants from the Support Fund for People with Disabilities can also be granted to those persons who have been on the basis of that since 1. Taxation of their contributions from the statutory accident insurance system or from a statutory accident care system applicable in January 2001 will create additional burdens." – Can be refunded! But they don't have to be refunded. In addition, this law clearly states that there is no more benefits, but only more grants according to the existing resources. That is, all those people who make an application to get money out of that pot are actually doing nothing but a lottery game. It may be that they win, but the chance will be very low. And to call that an improvement, I truly think that is cynical. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Also to want to sell the change in the Law on Disability to the citizens and disabled people in Austria as an improvement – ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how far you still have to fall to finally give up cynicism towards disabled people. This is not an improvement, ladies and gentlemen, because you know very well – and the disabled organisations have written it to you in such thick letters – that the extension will not bring about the probation period, but the probation period – Mr. Haupt, you have referred to it – not to the fact that more disabled people will find a job on the first labour market, but that disabled people will then be brought back to work when there is a stable in companies, and then they will be able to "connect" once the traffic is reduced. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: I haven't heard that much nonsense for a long time!]] Then they are unemployed again and have to stay home again and have not even acquired a right to unemployment benefit, because with up to 6 months of work there is no right to unemployment benefit. [[Abg. Neudeck: Can you prove this or just claim it?]] This is taking advantage of people with disabilities and nothing else! And I can prove it to you: For years now, Mr Mitterlehner from the Chamber of Commerce has called for the abolition of recruitment protection for disabled people. [[Abg. Neudeck: Very good, yes!]] What does that mean? Get out of the farms with the disabled! Mr Mitterlehner is one of those who today happily appreciates that the probation period for disabled people – not the probationary period, but the probation period! – is extended. Mr Mitterlehner, I would like to congratulate you on your hostile attitude to the disabled. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's a premise!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Awesome!]] I would also like to make a quick comment on this one of you, so famously, on the increase in the compensatory tax. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Just because you are disabled, you don't have to allow yourself to do so!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Do you think that a single entrepreneur, because he has to pay 2 700 s now, will lose only one thought in the future about whether he employs disabled people or not? [[Abg. Neudeck: Many, not one!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Not just one, many!]] That's not true at all! You know very well that payments to the compensation tax fund for non-fulfilment of the right to self-employed persons can be deducted from the profits of the company. That is to say, this effort is reducing profits for the company and is therefore not an effort, but only a tax shift and nothing else. Minister Chief! To the disabled billion. They keep trying to explain to us what you are not doing in this direction. You have said, among other things, how much you have spent this year on job-saving measures for disabled people. Mr President, this is the proof that you have delivered today that you are now using funds from the disabled billions who have previously been paid from other pots, for there has always been the means of job security. They were paid by the Federal Social Office, they were paid by the AMS, but you cleared the pots, and now pay They also include these measures from the disabled billions. I have been given the proof by you today that the billions of disabled people are not additional benefits, but only a retransmission of other amounts that have always been financed.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9682	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9703	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs Haidlmayr! I would like to ask you, as in the Committee, to take note at last of the fact that the labour market promotion measures continue in the same way that funding from the areas from which funds have been spent in the past for disabled jobs continues to ensure that additional European funds for the AMS could be used to implement job design, and that the disabled billions are an additional and not a promotion instead. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]] I ask you to take this into account at last and not to continue to assure the people of this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9739	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9760	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen – especially from the opposition! 30 years of socialist financial policy have left us an indescribable financial disaster. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: Tibetan prayer mill!]] This government had to go to fix the state budget, and we succeeded in doing so at a time to envy us many. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! This path requires courage, consistency and sense of responsibility for this country. We must note, however, that there is no renovation without cuts, and cuts sometimes really hurt. And because of this, the pursuit of social justice was at the heart of the reflections. This also applies to the issue of the taxation of accident pensions, and I admit that this question was sick from the beginning and in fact no one was pleased. But it was necessary, in the opinion of many experts, to include this issue in the considerations, and it came to the known regulation as it is available to us today. Today, however, we recognise the need to make improvements to the system in order to prevent social hardships. The opposition now screams zeter and mordio because we want to eliminate these hardships. You accuse us of cynicism, but I may ask you: Where were your proposals for more tax justice? Where were your proposals to keep the systems efficient? - No answer. I can give you the answer: They have put zero proposals into the discussion, zero ideas, zero perspectives. Mrs Haidlmayr! Skill You explain to anyone why private pensions are taxed, but pensions from statutory accident insurance are not taxed? Or: Can you explain to me from your understanding of social justice why an invalid pension of 13 000 S should be taxed, but an accident pension of 23 000 S is not taxed? Can you give me an answer? [[Abg. Murauer: There is no answer!]] – I admit, it is difficult to answer this question, probably too difficult for the opposition. But today we can present to the House a solution that takes account of the weak and helps those who actually need help. With this solution, 60,000 accident pensioners benefit from the compensation of hardness. This is not only the tax foundation – Mr. Feurstein has already done so – but also the personal situation of the disabled is taken into account and maintenance obligations or obligations for the creation of housing. We have not made the solution easy, and we would have expected, ladies and gentlemen, that you at least recognize this effort. No, you don't. They are trying to beat political change on the back of those affected. They are insecure, dissuade, operate as always and everywhere fundamental opposition, ladies and gentlemen. Integration must take place in all social areas. Integration cannot be ordered, it must take place in the minds of people. And our policy is aimed at supporting this effort. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It also helps those volunteers who support thousands of initiatives in all parts of this country and who actually live civil society in the best sense of the word, ladies and gentlemen. Disabled people need not only money, but also affection, understanding and love for people. This love of people for the disabled is abundant. I do not want to thank all those who work in these organizations very much from this point of view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have created the billions of disabled people to facilitate the entry into work. It will be up to the AMS to support these efforts accordingly. I am very, very much in favour of the work assistance which should be given advice to businesses. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to support these efforts, it was also planned to increase the tax on compensation. But I admit – Mrs Silhavy has put that under my control –: 30 percent increase in the tax also means a victim for the economy. I'm asking you to acknowledge this, and I don't understand that you need to talk to the ground and the ground. Of course, this is not enough for the opposition: The SPÖ demands the double amount, the Greens demand at all the average workers' income of each holding as a compensation tax. You want to punish, you want to force – I can tell you from here: You don't get anything to do with this! We want to motivate businesses to give new opportunities to disabled people a chance again, and we will convince businesses that it is not an incalculable risk to include a disabled person in the operation. The current form of the Disability Regulation, you know, is a double-edged sword because the current protection of termination simply prevents many businesses from taking up the disabled. From this point of view, the extension of the period, which allows a resolution, is a real step from three to six months. This does not endanger a single job – please take note, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition – but we give those 30,000 unemployed people a chance to get a job at all. You can also look at any thing from the other side, and I ask you to do it really. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The aim of this Federal Government is to give the disabled a chance to open up to the disabled. 30 years of SPÖ social policy have not brought as many benefits to disadvantaged people in this country as one year's government bowl, and we are proud of that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Again: You want to punish, you want to force something – we want to motivate businesses. You will see that our path will be successful!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9844	As the next speaker, Mr Staffaneller is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9865	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The support fund for people with disabilities is intended to help our fellow human beings quickly and efficiently in the future. This financial assistance or funding from the Fund is intended to help alleviate and eliminate difficult situations due to rapid assistance, especially when people with disabilities are in social emergency situations. Grants for the support of pensioners from accident insurance are now intended to provide compensation. This compensation is intended for small-income pensioners in particular. Some 60 000 people will benefit provisionally from this hardness compensation scheme. Ladies and gentlemen! The professional situation of people with disabilities has worsened dramatically in the ten years before the last National Council elections. The Social Ministry or the relevant Social Ministers at the time either did not recognize the seriousness of the situation or simply suppress the problem. In 1998, when 40 540 disabled persons were officially identified as unemployed in the annual average, it was much preferable to promote dubious projects, such as those of Mr. Chair President and his "Euroteam", as disabled people. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Without control measures, AMS funds have been deducted from the advice and communication of the disabled and the unemployed disabled have largely left their fate in the short term. Ladies and gentlemen! What is to happen now with the resources of the disabled billions for the years 2001 and 2002? And what is the ultimate goal? – Of course: increasing the opportunities for integration into the general labour market and enabling integration. That must be the first goal. The interests of people with disabilities should be strengthened much more than before in general consciousness. It's to be taken care of. The legal obligation to submit a regular report is intended to ensure that the measures can be monitored and monitored, so that situations do not arise again as in the last ten years. Of course, public awareness of the needs of people with disabilities is necessary. Then the horror scenarios, which were painted here on the wall, will not enter. A goal of all these efforts is to be jobs for disabled people. Sometimes, however, the start into professional life will not be possible, but it will require the help of training institutions and protected workshops. I am not of the opinion of Mrs Haidlmayr that protected workshops are primarily involved in creating ghettos for the disabled, but they are to be the first phase of aid for further development of vocational opportunities. We will look at this very carefully and will do so accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! The measures initiated by the government and the active employment policy for disabled persons now practised have contributed significantly to the fact that by the end of April 2001, 11 406 disabled persons were already listed as being less than unemployed than in the record year 1998. More than 3,000 young and older disabled people were also able to benefit from the planning and implementation of projects within the framework of the disabled billions of the Federal Minister Herbert Haupt. The increase in the tax on compensation has already been discussed. Ladies and gentlemen! For the disabled as well as for the disabled, it is a great advantage to get to know them better and to find out the opportunities for a longer-term job, to ensure that the protection of dismissal for the benefit of the disabled becomes effective only six months after the start of the service relationship. We also expect success. As far as the AMS and the messages that the AMS signed out are concerned, I can only speak of a fairy tale. In Styria alone, measures aimed at stabilising professional rehabilitation are intended to benefit disabled persons according to the work programme of the AMS Styria 310. Take a look at the work programmes of the regional office of the AMS! It looks similar throughout Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I am confident that the situation for many unemployed disabled persons will greatly improve in the coming years through the measures put forward by this government and the meaningful and effective use of the disabled billions by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Federal Minister of the Interior. We can be proud of this, that is the perception of social responsibility, as we understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9944	The next speaker was Mr Mitterlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9966	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been spoken of several times today of cynicism and of all possible assumptions, I would say, in connection with the taxation of accident pensions. Mr. Bundesminister Haupt has presented – and this was very plausible – that there are legendal education on the taxation of accident pensions and the decision of the Constitutional Court. It's right: In the 1990s, there was the taxation of accident pensions. We had a socialist-dominated federal government back then, but I could not recognize any initiative in the historical consideration to stop this "unjustice". Therefore, even today, the question is whether the taxation of accident pensions is in principle correct from the point of view of tax justice. In my opinion, it is a proper measure because it eliminates an exception. Mr. Ollinger! They have referred to pensions under the Military Supply Act, saying that they are tax-free, so to speak, – one should also eliminate this exception. If you have a classification here, of course, the question arises whether you should not eliminate hardship situations. Therefore: We're not repairing anything, we're eliminating hardships. I would have preferred to have made a loophole in tax law, but this procedure is quite committed to an attempt to address the particular personal situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, one has to ask, in this context, whether the abstractness of the accident pensions, which leads to the pain, should be checked whether it should not be checked how this actually affects the income situation. The following questions should also be examined: What does development look like? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Don't we have more leisure accidents than accidents at work? – All of this should also be given in connection with the disability pension of an examination to see whether the basis of assessment may not need to be changed and much more. – The Federal Minister has announced this, and I believe that this is a serious way of solving this problem. It's clear that when I clear up hardness rules, I need a deadline. Everyone then knows the rules that apply to him, and can depend on them, as well as a person with an invalidity pension, a creditor's pension to be taxed accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! It has also been mentioned here that this fund is to be eaten mainly or partly by an increase in the compensatory tax. In this context, I must tell you, Mrs Haidlmayr – although I do not see her here in the hall now – that you do not have a monopoly on representing the right interests on disability issues, and that even the assessment is not correct that only you represent these interests. You have to get the problem into mind first and you can only talk about it. The compensation tax is due for those who do not employ a disabled person to 25 employees. Look The situation on the labour market is as follows: In March of this year, there were 33 000 people who had been identified, under quotation marks, "impeded" unemployed, but only 3 000 with a licence. What does that really mean? – The labour market service defines disability differently from the disability regulation. The businessman pays the compensation tax, but there are only 3,000 predominates with exemption throughout Austria. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] In clear text: Every businessman who comes now says: I would like to hire one with a license!, is said by the labour market service: Unfortunately, we don't have one! They then have means of mediation – under quotation marks – "heavy-mediable", but not for those with a license of exemption. Therefore, as an entrepreneur, I could argue: It is true cynicism when for me the compensation tax is increased to 2 700 s – Mrs. Silhavy wants to have 4 800 s at all, Mrs. Haidlmayr even the amount of a monthly fee – but I really don't get anyone! Therefore, the measure, which is set as an intermediate step, i.e. the extension of the probationary period, is not an adverse measure for the disabled. There are many people with disabilities who want to be treated normally in the labour market. And this is a way of acting with incentives, not with excessive protection provisions. There are disabled people's associations who want to take these measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: The way this government is taking is right, with incentives to act with motivation, but not with a criminal tax. We want to integrate the disabled into the labour market system and create non-exhaust protection provisions that do not at all help them, but in practice lead to the fact that the unemployed people remain in the mediation. In this sense you can only support the package of the government!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10021	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10043	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Silhavy has today handed over to the Minister for Social Affairs Scherben. It is already amusing or actually paradoxical when a representative of those who have caused the bankruptcy is handing over to the Sanierer Scherben. And everyone in Austria already knows that the government dominated by the SPÖ has actually left a sniper pile. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Huber: But don't believe anyone will!]] And that's why – and that's why! – measures are necessary, which also have an impact on the environment. I believe that this must also be noted by Mrs Silhavy, the whole SPÖ Group and the Greens. Since you, Mrs Silhavy, accuse this Federal Government of removing the poorest of the poor 2 billion schilling, but only 1 billion schilling is returned – you call it cynicism – I would ask you to refresh your memory a little, because the SPÖ-dominated Federal Government has not for too long drawn the disabled from the two savings packages with 4 billion schilling without even giving them a big one. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So it is urgently necessary that you remember that. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also cynism that if everything that the government does, it is simply the positive, the negative, the negative, and without interruption, that this government would have only bad intentions anyway. I would really like to ask you to stop Mrs Haidlmayr, Mrs Silhavy, Mrs Plank. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: An Enlightenment Campaign!]] Mrs Plank! Why do you speak for accident pensioners of alms? Why do it? You do? [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Because it's true!]] It's just not alms. Why do you call repair worse than the law of origin? Are you just doing this because you're not right that the government has improved something that it has seen that it was not good? I can only imagine that you are doing this because you simply want to defuse any positive activity of the Federal Government. I think you should stop that. They don't improve the situation. [[Further call of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Mrs. Haidlmayr! You do not improve the situation of the disabled if you are restlessly insecure, quite the contrary, you are worsening the situation of the disabled when you create a climate in which the positive is even reduced. Remember that at last! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] All the advantages that we choose for the disabled today, you simply go away. My previous speaker, Mr Feurstein, has already presented essential points in detail where there are improvements. Look, the compensation tax will be increased by 30 percent, which has already been reported several times today. There has been no such increase throughout the socialist period. Why don't you recognize that? This action by the Federal Government now makes it difficult for companies not to employ the disabled. [[Abg. Ollinger: That doesn't fit together!]] In addition, I would like to give to Mr Mitterlehner the right to say that compensatory taxes do not bring anything to an astronomical level. There are entrepreneurs who want to recruit the disabled, but they simply don't get them. The compensation tax must be noticeable. With this amount of 2 700 S, it will now also be noticeable, so that anyone who is just afraid of taking up the disabled will begin to consider whether this would not be better for him. And please stop, Mrs. Haidlmayr, at the point of extending the probationary period, talking about the entrepreneurs taking advantage of the disabled. Please show me an entrepreneur who is taking up a disabled person in a situation where he is under pressure, so that he has a better output. That's totally irrational! I can only imagine that you have no idea of the economy at all, or you won't be able to come up with such ideas. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You know, we don't demand applause from you, and, Mrs. Haidlmayr, there's no one famous about the measures. But I would ask you to acknowledge at least those measures that improve the disabled and not continue in your destructive opposition policy strategy.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10158	Mr Neudeck spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10180	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear colleague Haidlmayr! If you really want to do something positive for the disabled, I have to say that the request you have made in the Committee was really not the right and targeting way. If you ask service providers why they don't meet the disability rate in their company, then don't hear because it's cheaper to pay the compensation tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] No, the main argument for refusing the economy is that the disabled have to do with a law that discriminates against the disabled. As has been said so often in this case, it has been shown that overregulation is the opposite of what was wanted. By increasing the compensation tax, you do not create a job for disabled people. On the basis of the amount you demand, you will destroy jobs for previously employed people because they create competitive disadvantages to other countries. You have the same possibilities to be here in the house as anyone else. They make each choice, and you don't have a longer legislative period than others. So give the disabled who are looking for work the same chances as you have them! Request They are not discriminatory measures which make it impossible for the economy to eliminate the disabled due to overrun restrictions.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10216	The next speaker, Mrs Mag, spoke. Lap. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10237	Mr President. Minister! High house! A measure is being discussed here today, which is a threat to many people in our country and which is a major obstacle to daily life for many people. In my opinion, the Minister has previously expressed a threat when he said that he wanted to put the right of the disabled on a new basis. The first measure, which is being discussed here today, this repair, this hemorrhage in the taxation of the accident pensions, shows only the ambiguity of the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Because 2 billion schillings are taken from those people who have hit severe fates, and 1 billion schillings are given them so that they can better fit into social life. One of my previous speakers has shown very aptly how this government deals with disabled people in our society. They should experience love, affection and support. But that they want to be accepted as equal people in our society, as equal groups of people, who experience the promotions, all this is not reflected in these measures, and this simply shows that, in this turn policy of the current government, as the President said yesterday, many people will pass through the Wendemanoven and will thank themselves very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It has also been toured by colleague Partik-Pablé in the Vienna election campaign and has meant that she will be strong in order to eliminate the taxation of accident pensions. You've seen how strong she's been. But the Viennans have shown how to deal with election promises from the FPÖ: This will be given a clear rejection and will continue to be dealt with. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, particularly infam is also – sorry, I will use another word – that it was said that Austria was a sniper after the Social Democrats were in the government. [[Oh-noise at the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hello! Jungfernred and already...!]] Austria is the fifth largest country in the world and the third largest in Europe. The fact that you call this a shredded pile shows quite simply: As the bad guy thinks, he's acting. And you're continuing this activity now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The people with fate beats pay themselves the programmes for better integration. This also shows how you view the idea of solidarity in our society. Those who sometimes stand away from society are supposed to be themselves, while politics is responsible for those who set out measures that are more closely members of our society. We are opposed to such measures, and that is why we will not agree to this proposal today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point, I think, is also the question of dealing with the language. In this template, the term "performance" has been replaced by the term "suspension". That is, if someone has been bullied by this tax and wants to have it back, then he has to make an effort to pay it. And this shows a social-political view or a social-political attitude on the part of the government parties, which is no longer for the 21st century. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the introductory sentences, the lack of public awareness of the concerns of disabled people has been pointed out and it has been noted that this lack should be removed and a corresponding awareness developed. But I fear that this will not work. The question is: Can people then go to the Federal Office for Social Affairs and the Disabled? The Minister said that they could then find a competent solution in his offices. These offices are being distributed, and these offices are already working efficiently and intensively for the interests of disabled people in our society. They are now subject to additional administrative procedures, and they are faced with a lot of questions. I think that is exactly the opposite of customer orientation, administrative simplification and political reliability. Finally, I would like to say that today's discussion actually shows that the social policy image of the government parties is against the people of our state. That is why we very much support Social Democrats and Social Democrats for the retroactive abolition of the taxation of accident pensions, and we also propose a resolution on this. Perhaps some Members of yours will also consider joining him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10317	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10338	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Mag. Christine Lapphat claims that the Federal Government is dealing with this law in order to make repairs for the beliefs and the attendants in this society. Mrs Colleague, I should like to ask you to read through the law. Then you will insist that the derogations, by 20 000 S in general, replace everything, then the grinding and fiscal progression are the opposite and in practice will prove the opposite of what you have now claimed, because the social weakest up to 10 000 S will not pay any taxes at all, then be fully restored and beyond that the hardships will be restored. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]] I would ask you, Mrs Colleague, at least this argument, to take note of it clearly and clearly from the tax laws of the Republic and from this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10379	Mrs Silhavy has spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10400	Federal Minister! It is already a very clear indication if you are speaking here of tax justice, but not of social justice, although you are calling yourself Social Ministers of this Federal Government. To be honest, I would like to say something: They should really think of social problems and not talk about financial justice and fiscal justice. This may be for the Minister of Finance. They would be allowed to talk about social justice and also to adopt measures that are socially just. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Oberlehrer!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, I'd be a little nervous in your place, that's clear. If you make false promises into an election battle, but break these promises, then of course it hurts when you're being led as you were to say the untruth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I would like to say once again: The basis for calculating accident pensions is 66 percent. In other words, accident pensions are calculated not by 100 percent, but by 66 percent of the basis of assessment. And these accident pensions tax you once again, and that is a social injustice.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10448	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish the final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law in 650 of the supplements. Mr Gaugg, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Dr Kostelka. I will therefore vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Gaugg, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new point 2 in Article 3. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. Mr Gaugg, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new point 3 in Article 3. As mentioned above, separate votes have been required for this part of the supplementary request. I would therefore ask those Members who are in favour of this part of the supplementary request to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. Mr Gaugg, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to the amendment of the numbering in Article 3. I would ask those members of the House who are in favour of a positive sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Silhavy and Mr Comrades on the increase in the tax on compensation under the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 651 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 652 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. 4. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (574 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Federal Caring Act (653 of Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 43/A by Mr Theresia Haidlmayrund Comrades on a Federal Law establishing the Federal Insurance Act (BPGG), BGBl. No. 110/1993, amended (654 of the supplements) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 282/A (E) by Mrs Alfred Gusenbauer and others on the social security of the social system in the field of care allowance (655 of the supplements) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 284/A(E) by Mrs Alfred Gusenbauer and others on the social security of the social system in the field of care benefits in the care infrastructure (656 of the supplements) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 9. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (575 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the War Sacrifice Care Act 1957, the Sacrifice Care Act, the Military Care Act, the Vaccination Act, the Crime Sacrifice Act, the War Sacrifice Fund Act, the Federal Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Small Pension Act and the Arbitration Act (Law 2002 – VRAG 2002) (658 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10652	We shall now proceed to points 4 to 9 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dietachmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10680	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! From the fullness of the proposals we are discussing now, I would like to deal with a subject, namely war prisoners' compensation law, because I know that many men in this country have been waiting for this day, so that this injustice, which was decided last autumn, will be eliminated today. Already in the decision-making of the prisoners of war compensation law last autumn, there were numerous protests. You all know that. In particular, pensioners' organizations have not understood that prisoners of war who have been detained in different Western European and overseas countries are exempted from the compensation granted to those prisoners of war caught in Central and Eastern Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Pensioners' associations have captured a few thousand men and their fates, organized protests and appealed to the parliamentary parties. I would like to read from such an appeal by the Pensionist Association, in which it reads: There is nothing to explain that Austrians who have been trained in coal pits in France and Belgium under inhuman conditions who have had to work in quarries and sulphur caves in northern Greece or who have been detained in Moroccan prisons should not receive compensation. Ladies and gentlemen! After several months of factual submission of this injustice, the patience of those concerned is truly at the end, and they expect a repair of this law just today from this House. The senior representatives of all political groups expressed hope that you, Mr Federal Minister, would invite the representatives of the Austrian Council of Senior Officials to have concrete discussions with them to discuss this novel. You too, Mr. Federal Minister, were impressed by the fates and arguments presented, and these people gained hope! It was also discussed about the proposal – which, as I believe, is very clear on the subject – that as a variant the monthly payments for high-level persons could either be made one-off payments, which would mean a fairer settlement for these people. They, Mr. Federal Minister, showed themselves ready to talk, and therefore many were also convinced or hoped that a corresponding change would take place today. What everyone expected, namely a concrete amendment proposal to be drawn up in consensus with the senior representatives, is missing today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What this government has presented to Parliament today with the supply law amendment law is simply a shame! You could have perceived the opportunity to eliminate this injustice. It raises a number of questions, Mr Federal Minister, and I do not know if you can answer them. Is the compensation really to be granted only to those who have been imprisoned in war in Eastern Europe? What about those who have been held captive in other areas, such as France, Italy or the UK – I have already mentioned examples –? How is the distinction justified in two classes of prisoners of war, namely in East and West prisoners? Why are they worthy of support and not the others? The amounts paid are not large sums, they range from 200 S to 500 S per month – 500 S gets one who has been in captivity for at least six years – so they are kept in such a way that they only have little burden on the budget. Most claimants are now very old. Many of them will not be able to use the monthly amount for a long time. Therefore, an immediate appropriate one-off payment, as I mean, would be really better. Federal Minister! I ask you very specifically: Could you imagine this one-time payment? The exclusion provisions of § 2 are also unclear. That we are not alone with our criticism, I have already done. But there are also many supporters of this law. I quote from a press release by the FPÖ member Bösch of 14th century. May, in which it reads: The Deputy Free Party Minister of Vorarlberg and National Council Member Dr Reinhard In the sense of equal treatment, Bösch also demands compensation for those Austrian prisoners of war who were imprisoned by the Western Allies. – He himself says that the law of autumn is a first step and then explains literally: As a second step, we must also take into account those who were often detained in American, British or French prisoners of war in Western Europe or overseas under extremely harsh conditions. Yes, we agree, and I hope that Mr Bösch will also vote in favour of our amendment today. Or: The Carinthian Landtag, with the votes of FPÖ, ÖVP and SPÖ, has decided to request a corresponding amendment of the War Arbitration Act. And in the city council of Linz – the Upper Austrians may already know – the Liberal Group will present a proposal for this today. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: But in Linz the SPÖ is against it!]] If there is already so much consensus about a change, why do you forcefully push through a novel that actually contradicts all the rules? Take this proposal back and accept our amendment! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Approve in Linz!]] You would have, if you already believe that you are submitting this amendment, which I am bringing in – it has already been distributed –... [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you agree to Linz?]] This is referred to in Article 8(2): "Austrian citizens who in the course of the First or Second World War..." and so on. We do not want to make any distinction either, although we know that there are probably only more, very few persons affected from the First World War. But we don't want to make any assessment either. I should really like to ask you to give your approval to this amendment. Give yourself the opportunity not to consciously make a mistake, Mr. Federal Minister! Give yourself the opportunity to give hope to those people who are still disappointed and angry at the politics of this federal government! And if you could not agree to the amendment, you would still have the opportunity to refer at least that part of the law back to committee with a referral request to discuss it again. I ask you not to make a mistake consciously, because people deserve to be treated justly here!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10786	I announce that the request of Members Dietachmayr, comrades and comrades, just explained in his key points, was also presented in writing and is sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. With regard to the scope of the application, I leave it within the meaning of § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10881	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg, with a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10903	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If we were to direct the crocodile tears that the SPÖ delegates shed in this house to the Danube, then we would probably have floods in Vienna. Mr Vorrecher, one question to you: There have now been explanations and proposals and requests and amendments. But I'm asking you: Where were you and Your party in the last 30 years? In the last 30 years, you have had the opportunity with your Federal Chancellor, your Minister of Finance and your Minister of Social Affairs to create a prisoner-of-war compensation law. That is why you are extremely unbelievable on this question too! The credibility of the SPÖ is not there! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You've known since 4. February last year with everything that goes better. For 30 years you've lost your chances! They were the SPÖ who led Austria into a debt tower and increased poverty. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We're now trying to clear up the debts that you've caused, for example, with the nationalists. As I hear it, a two-class society is created in social security. They were the ones who kept forcing and protegrating this again and again! Her former Finance Minister Androsch recently said in an interview with a newspaper that the bad financial situation of the Republic of Austria was due to the expenditure excess of the 1990s. – Very touching and very correct what he finds out here. Of course, the War Arbitration Act is also intended to include all those affected by it. But it's amazing that the SPÖ – now that it's not in the government anymore – is coming upon it. For what were the warrings in the eyes of the SPÖ in recent years? What were the war participants of the Republic of Austria just in the eyes of SPÖ in recent years? Where was the Pensionist Association with former Minister Blecha? He never spoke! The ÖGB has never made any mention of it, it has become the pensioner's association, which now appeals to numerous... [[Interlocutors Dietachmayr and Silhavy.]] Mr President, where have you been in the last 30 years? Your colleague, Lapp, I still agree that she has the happiness of late birth, but you have been sitting here for years or soon for decades! You could've done all of this! That's why I have to say: If we take a step in this right direction, go along with it! And let us be glad that we can now achieve compensation at least for those who were detained in the East. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You will not succeed – and if you still go out here so often – to do anything bad about what this government is doing. Of course, everything the SPÖ did was good in your eyes, but I wonder: Then why, after 30 years of SPÖ domination, does one million people live on the poverty line?- Oh, my God! Thank God the general public will never know how the SPÖ would have reorganised this state budget! Like the "consum"? - Extinct! 15,000 jobs away! How the nationalized industry? – Ruined, gone, there is no more! – And you are giving great advice to the new re-Government! I also wonder: Where was the SPÖ on the question of the disabled? Where did the SPÖ once have a billion disabled? Where was the increase in the compensation tax? Where was she?- Oh, my God! – They now call for the valorization of the care allowance, and, and, and. Why didn't you do that yourself? In many areas, we would not have such a great need if you had managed neat, serious and solidly! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Silhavy and Mr Bures.]] – Thanks to us, there are now improvements in this area. Your famous red thread goes through all the speeches to the statements of Mr Edlinger. He's not here now – probably he's preparing for his urgent request; I haven't seen such a pamphlet like what's coming today! This urgent request of the SPÖ will become a self-esteem of first order today because it comes from an ex-finance minister who has caused a financial disaster, but who has always cared for himself and his friends best, as we know. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. May. Mühlbachler]] We should have the names Scholten and Co. Don't forget. All these people are in highest positions today. Because they are no longer needed politically, they are provided in board sets, and Mr. Draxler is suddenly the miracle child and the like. I'll tell you one thing: We will not only succeed in the issue of prisoners of war compensation, but also, among other things, an improvement in care payments. As early as the birth of disabled children, care benefits will be paid in the future. This, too, would have been a good thing for the SPÖ that it would have done her well to work in this area once. But nothing, nothing has come to your mind! And since 4. You will only be polemized by you on February 2000. I invite you to participate in an improvement, especially in the matter of care money, because ultimately, through the strengthening and quality assurance of the establishment of the care allowance, the likelihood that the condition of a care allowance will deteriorate is reduced. That is, in the end, it is also a humanitarian service and not just a financial one that we now also involve the young children in the care allowance through the withdrawal of the age limit. Therefore, I would expect the SPÖ to join us once, but besides destruction, there is nothing in her at the moment; perhaps there and there a little insult. At least you are invited – because you always pretend to be the social experts – to finally work together constructively again!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11008	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. – Voluntary speaking time limit, honourable Member: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11029	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to Mrs Pablo's previous opinion, we would reject everything that comes from the government, I would like to tell you in advance that we will agree to this government proposal, although not all the demands made by you, when you, the liberals, were still in opposition, were taken into account in this innovation. We find it positive, and it is a great success for the Greens, because we have made numerous applications since 1993 every year, so that the care allowance for disabled children is paid from birth and not only from the completion of the third year of life. This struggle of the Greens has been successful, and we have led the Federal Government to finally adopt our demand and to include it in the law. This means an essential improvement for the parents of disabled children. We Greens are very happy about this, and we are glad that we have finally been able to convince this Federal Government of what can be a positive disability policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is also the reason why, as I said, we will agree to this law. There are also very big problems in this novel. I already know that your goal is to get more and more data from people, and with the data protection you have nothing to do with the hat anyway. It has shown in the past how important it is for you to get a lot of data from many people in order to be able to use data and information. You have now also strengthened this in the care money sector. I do not know, and we will let it be checked whether it is right at all, that the maintenance and maintenance data must be released and that it is a matter of course for you that even the most intimate data can and may be linked more or less to all other data from insurance companies. We think that is extremely dangerous, and that is – you have to say – another attack on our fundamental rights, another attack on data protection. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: bureaucratic difficulties for the disabled!]] Minister Chief! Something else really surprises me. They claim, on the one hand, that the valorization could not take place, that the Federation had no money, and that the care money had already grown into a dimension that could hardly be done on the budget. – These have always been your arguments against the valorization and against the return of the pocket money robbery. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] Now, Minister – and this is not uninteresting! – are suddenly available from the care money area, for example for the training of caregivers, now suddenly there are funds for projects of the care organisations, now there is suddenly money for the issue of specialist information. – Mr Minister, do you know that this is an alienation from the care allowance par excellence? You know, Minister, that in 1993, the countries with the Confederation have concluded a so-called Article 15a agreement, in which they have committed themselves to ensuring the framework conditions and, of course, to finance these framework conditions! And, of course, the framework of qualified assistance, support and assistance includes training, of course also the financing of non-profit projects for outpatient care and, of course, also the information on professional journals et cetera. And now that countries have taken up this commitment they have entered into in 1993. The countries are no longer responsible for this, but this is now paying back to the Federation, out of the care money! Mr Minister, I really think that is scandalous! This has not been absolutely within the meaning of the Care Money Act and is to the most extent contrary to the obligations arising out of the Article 15a agreements with the countries! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like you to comment on this, Mr Minister, and explain why, suddenly, there is such a surplus and yet no valorization can take place. I would also like an opinion on why, on the one hand, there is suddenly such a surplus that one can now finance training, projects et cetera via the care money, on the other hand, why one does not return the pocket money. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister! This must be easy inside if you are already ready to take over the costs of the countries. I think you really need explanation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11103	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Gatterer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11127	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add the following to Mrs Haidlmayr's statement: As a social politician, I am very much concerned that in future there will also be substantial support and measures on the part of the federal government for quality assurance. We simply need an even better quality assurance, we need quality control, and we depend on the cooperation of free welfare providers throughout the Federal Republic to enable them to carry out further training in order to train their employees so that there are seminars and specific conferences. The government stands by and acknowledges that this is a very important part of the work in the field of care provision, and we welcome these measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Perhaps just because the care is female, I would like to take a different perspective now than Mrs. Haidlmayr did, which focused primarily on the caregivers – which is right – and also on the caregivers – and that is now just 80 percent of women. Especially with quality assurance, these women, who sometimes feel very familiar, who feel overwhelmed, will be offered a better network through which they will receive help and support or information. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One must admit, when dealing with this issue, that care is largely done in the families. I am very glad that all the studies carried out here show that families are mostly very good, not to say exemplaryly maintained, but, as mentioned above, 80 percent of this is done by women. I think that here men are required to show more partnership in the future and become involved in the care sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Of these 80 percent women, one third are still in work, and for these women, this means that in addition to their double burden from family and work, they often have to do care work for a very long time. In this context, I would like to refer to the survey on death accompaniment, which has also been said, we need to consider how we prevent for those people who are parents, partners or – God! – At least in the terminal phase, children need to receive a care exemption in the final phase. This is an important issue, but I believe that is the right way to move forward, and we probably also need to look more closely at how social security in the care sector could perhaps be further improved, and perhaps even more information on this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In general, it is to be said that it does not only bring about a change in the amount of care provision, which in the case of physical, mental and mental handicaps, determines in euros the amount of the care allowance, i.e. 145,40 j to 1 531,50 j, and in so far as this law provides for quality assurance for the first time on solid rails throughout the country; in addition, it is also true to the long-term desire that many social politicians, as well as disabled associations, and above all mothers, have always been introduced to us, namely to grant the care allowance for disabled children from the time of birth. In this context, it is fair to say that this is not the wish of a single grouping, but that many who are concerned with this problem have repeatedly pointed out that this is basically a lack of a bureaucratic regulation on a hardness fund or that this scheme is not being handled equally in all countries. This law now makes it possible to obtain the care allowance from the birth of the child – it grants a legal claim on it! – and it thus substantially strengthens the position of those in need, especially those in need of care and their families. I believe that the whole area of care money and the caregivers regulations is an area that has to be constantly on the move. We have already taken many steps in this area: There are about 270 000 people in Austria who receive care money, and this does, if I remember correctly from the budget figures, amount to around 19 billion schilling. I believe that this is a very, very great effort. In addition, we are constantly taking new steps, such as the creation of a legal claim from birth. There are also several other issues in this context, which we also do not close down, but it must first be possible to pay for the corresponding measure, such as the valorization of the care allowance. But I think the development of the care allowance is really a constant process. As far as the situation of the families is concerned, I would like to stress that today, in the previous debate, the government's disability policy has been very negatively assessed, as the Federal Minister pointed out at the meeting of the Committee, 5 900 women with disabilities have been able to enter an employment relationship. This shows that we have been able to achieve a lot of positive things in this short period of time. If it is said again and again that we are taking away something from the families, then I can refer to the new step we are taking in this law by creating the right to care for disabled children from birth. However, I would also like to point out that we have never called into question very important other support for families with disabled children, such as increased family support, assistance for disabled car conversion, school travel aid for parents with disabled children or the cost of aid. I am very glad that the child care allowance and the commitment to a mother-child-pass examination will now make it possible again to increase the chances of early detection of defects or disabilities in children, because we unfortunately had to note that this permanence of the investigation suffered. I believe that this is an active support for children and for families with disabilities. Parents of a newborn who has health, physical defects are in a very, very difficult situation – all studies show that. With this bill, we take one, although not very large, yet very important step to help these parents.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11221	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11242	Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment to the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz first includes a euro changeover. To this end, it should be noted that the euro changeover in this form would not, in principle, be necessary, but that we have insisted that it should be laid down in a legal form in order to make full legal clarity in this area for those concerned and to be able to oppose clearly and clearly what is often heard in the public about non-recognition and uncertainty about the fact that the euro changeover could take away money from people. This law clearly states that this is not the case, but that, on the contrary, the smoothing in the context of the euro changeover will make approximately 600 000 S more available to the affected group. Secondly, I should like to point out that the opening of the period from 0 to 3 years in the case of disabled infants and infants is now a significant improvement in the area of care benefits. Some countries have already predicted this, and others have managed to compensate for it. I think it is necessary for this law to create a general rule now. I should also like to point out that, in the context of this law, derogations are also created to ensure that the continued and self-insurance for members of care providers in the case of hospital stays which have been lost so far is now continuing, that the improvement provided for in this Act will continue to provide social security for caregivers. I can reassure Mrs Haidlmayr in that I can point out that, with a total volume of 18 billion Schilling in the field of care money, the two projects carried out on the one hand by the pension insurance institution of the employees and on the other hand by the pension insurance institution of the farmers total 2 million Schilling and that the money is not taken away from the disabled, on the one hand from the promoters and on the other hand from the administrative budget, i.e. not from the care allowance itself. We believe that both projects will make an important contribution to quality assurance. On the one hand, we believe – and we also know from studies – that family care is largely of very good quality, but on the other hand we believe that these two studies are necessary in order to ensure that qualitative shortcomings, which occur occasionally and there, can be met in the future, so that they can be stopped in the long term, in order to ensure better health conditions for disabled people through more quality. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the direction of Mr Dietachmayr, I would like to point out what I have already said in committee. . You have rightly pointed out, Mr Dietachmayr, that a number of people have turned to you – by the way, by the way, it has addressed me – who have had to experience their captivity of war and do forced labour in the Western Alliances. I can add that, as I have already said in the Committee, a group that you did not apostrophe yourself in your application has also been affected, which has now been introduced, because it believes that more than 50 years after the end of the Second World War, the time has also come for it to obtain symbolic compensation, namely those persons who were civilians and members of former Austrian minorities, such as Romania, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and the Balkans, who have also been interned there and who have been forced to do forced work for several years in Eastern Germany, for example in the case of the dismantling of economic operators, have been brought to Russia, where they have rebuilt the plants, have rebuilt and put into operation machines, and then have only come here in 1947 or 1948 and are now also expecting corresponding services. But I also say quite clearly – and I also said this to the ladies and gentlemen who have spoken before me – that, in order to be able to compensate for all these benefits, it will be necessary to obtain the necessary money in negotiations with the Minister of Finance, because all these compensations total about 1.1 billion schilling and that money is currently not available in my department – as you know from the budget adopted. However, it has also been a pleasure for me that all those who have spoken to us in the ministry have also acknowledged that it was only this federal government that, after more than 50 years of Interregnum, has returned to action on the issue of compensation for prisoners of war, for the last benefits that this group of late returnees has received were laid down in 1949 by the law at that time. But since that time, Mr Dietachmayr, in which your group has held government responsibility, has not moved on this issue. [[Call to the liberals: Zero!]] This has all approved of the current government that it was it that has finally addressed this issue. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say clearly that what I have promised to those concerned also corresponds to the state of consciousness of most members of the Federal Government, but also to the majority of the Members of this House, so that I am very pleased that, when the budget reform is completed, we will also receive the necessary money from the Minister of Finance, in order to bring about a just compensation solution to those groups you, Mr Dietachmayr, and also those groups whom I have also apologized. I believe that this is also urgently necessary and justified. Why that group, which receives this compensation today, has been granted as the first group of benefits, I have already performed several times, and I am not willing to do so again. This group, which was forced to do their forced work in the former Eastern Bloc or had to suffer and endure its captivity of war – also partially beyond the time limits in force under the Hague Convention at that time – has been expressly recognised by the State Treaty for the reduction of the repair payments to be made for the recovery of the State Treaty and the freedom of Austria. That is why, as I believe, it is also useful and correct that this group was the first to receive compensation. However, I do not overlook the fact that the other groups also have this right and that, from a moral point of view, the Federal Government is obliged to grant compensation to this group – for their forced labour and for their prisoners of war, wherever it has done or suffered, from Morocco to New Zealand and from Germany to Eastern Germany to Canada and in allied countries such as France or other countries on the part of the Allies such as Spain, Greece and other parts of the world. We have never lost sight of the objective, we are in negotiations, and I believe that we can be good courage to reach a solution even if the savings targets of this federal government have been achieved in 2002. Another point: Mrs Haidlmayr mentioned the corresponding benefits for care providers. . I should like to draw your attention, Mrs Haidlmayr, to the fact that one-time payments for care providers are fixed in the Government Convention for this legislative period, and may also inform you that at the meeting of social representatives between 3 and 5 years of age. This year in Schladming, all the federal states finally agreed to a valorization of the care allowance. It is also a part of the federal states, and a unilateral solution on the part of the federal government is not justified for me. I can only take the next steps since this time, since the agreement with the federal states could be reached, that is to say, within the Federal Government to negotiate with the Finance Minister in order to get the necessary money for care providers in this area. I am aware of both of these issues, and the second is also enshrined in the Government Convention in the form of a single payment, so that I can certainly assume that this problem will also be solved during this legislative period. I therefore believe that today's amendment to the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz includes only improvements for those concerned, and I do not overlook that there are more wishes than we can meet today. But I also say: We will only be able to fulfil this increase in our wishes if we have also done our hard work in budgetary terms, namely the achievement of the zero deficit. Then we will be able to go about giving more in a second offensive than what we are able to grant today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11296	The next speaker was Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11317	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We are talking about your social policy today. We are talking about the social policy of a Christian-social party and about the social policy of a party of the "little man" – under the lead sign. That what you are pretending to be has absolutely nothing to do with what you are doing is only evident in the fact that you have long tried to prevent a Committee, and I think for good reason – for you for good reason! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: What? Excuse me, please.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: But really not! Really not!]] Because you cannot be proud of your social policy, Mr Feurstein, which proves, among other things, the fact that you have unfortunately become the strings and repairers of the nation – and I would not be proud of that either, you can believe me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But we can learn from mistakes, which has often been heard in recent times, for example by Mr Westenthaler and also by other colleagues. We will also give you the opportunity to learn from mistakes in this draft law. We offer them to you, because today we want to make an appropriate request. I believe that it is also very important in this context to show or recall some facts relating to the federal pension fund – if You want some kind of little follow-up instruction. There are, for example, social democratic facts such as the comprehensive reform of care provision in 1993, ladies and gentlemen. In 1993 a graduated, needs-oriented care allowance was introduced, on which – regardless of income and wealth as well as the cause of the need for care – there is a legal claim. At the same time, an agreement was reached between the Federal Government and the Länder on common measures for people in need of care. In addition, a working group was set up to accompany the development of care provision and to make recommendations and proposals on important issues. And, of course, since 1996, there has also been a working group on quality assurance in care provision. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Today this will be improved!]] So that's not a new thing either. A 1997 study by Professor Badelt on the practical impact of the care system confirms that the objectives of the reform have been achieved to a large extent. Based on this experience, the then Social Democratic Minister Lore Hostasch renewed the Federal Care Money Act in so far as easy access to the care allowance level 4 was created. That was early 1999. Since 1998, there has also been free advice for caregivers and an improvement in the position of caregivers. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Who shortened Stage 1? Tell us! Who cut the level one?]] The possibility of a preferential supplementary insurance in pension insurance was also regulated by law in 1998. Ladies and gentlemen! This description of the development of the federal care fund is so important so that you cannot claim on the one hand that everything has existed only since you are in the government, and on the second hand you should be reminded that the solid basis on which you can now work is simply the social democratic basis. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: What did you do with Stage 1?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the draft law, as it is now present: In principle, we welcome the fact, Mr Pumberger, that care benefits can already be granted from the birth of a child. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: What about Stage 1?]] This was, of course, already possible so far – in the 14 cases that existed in Austria, it was granted in 13 cases – but I agree that the disappearance of the hard-leaf for families, if they have a disabled newborn, of course represents a significant improvement. With regard to quality assurance, we also welcome the creation of a legal anchoring of the possibility of promoting projects in care provision. We also welcome the exception that the care allowance should be passed on for the duration of a stationary stay to the extent of the contribution amount for the continued or self-insurance of a care person. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Since we Socialists, of course, are running constructive opposition policies, we will also agree to this bill, but unfortunately you have left the courage once again, ladies and gentlemen. There are two important areas which you have always called for; you too, Mrs Partik-Pablé. In March, Minister Haupt said in a press release that he wanted to increase the care allowance by one percent and was already negotiating with Mr Finanzminister. – Now he's talking about a one-time payment. I don't know what to believe. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: (a document in height) Read and listen carefully!]] Valorizing and increasing the pocket money seems equally important to us, and I admit that nothing has happened in this area for a longer time, ladies and gentlemen. That's right, but it's just as right that we are brave enough to admit that, with the will to change it as well. I know we're running open doors because the Federal Minister said that in March. And I also know that in April 1999 Mrs. Partik-Pablé – which was then discussed in the plenary session – formulated and filed a request and that he was discussed. - Okay! We want that too! We want to help you meet your demands. We're constructive. Be it too! I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you have 200 million schilling for an image campaign, if you blow up your ministerial offices until they almost burst and spend a lot of money on it, if You have almost 18 billion schilling for child care money, then you will also have the approximately 300 million schilling for this valorization. Do what you have always wanted and asked for, and agree to our request!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11491	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is in a matter of fact related to the item on the agenda and is therefore also subject to negotiation or then to the vote. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11518	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you have said that we are the repairers of social policy. It is clear why we are the repairers thanks to your social policy, which was so unsocial, we need to repair your policy. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Delete first, then fix! You better listen!]] That's our job. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As usual, Mrs. Colleague, the following statement comes to mind: "The social state is just a cost factor!"? – Do you know who made this statement? - It was Hostash. That's what it was. Your policy: Social policy is a cost factor. This is how you understood social policy. [[Abg. Silhavy: Of course! That's clear! Social policy just costs something!]] The result, the consequences were appropriate: arbitrary burdens, arbitrary deletions, simply no social policy with heart, no social policy with brain. That was your policy. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Delete first, then repair!]] Our Minister of Social Affairs Herbert Haupt has a heart for the people and implements the necessary things with understanding and forceful force. I would have liked that from you once. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's why you constantly fix your laws that you have decided!]] Her laws are repaired, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Silhavy: You need to repair your laws! That's what you have to answer!]] You have had 30 years to make social policy, and now you are making yourself up and saying that we should do these things. So that's a really special acidity. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Right! It's really a cleaner!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Age should not be seen as reduced, but must be seen as a modified form of life compared to previous life levels. The provision of care should also be based on the quality of life of older people. Quality benefits are given if they can be experienced by the old people as kindness, attention and appreciation and not as a forward-looking, technocratic-oriented service. Apart from disputes, it is clear to all of us that the retirement from the work process and the inability to live independently in old age do not mean the end of life, but should be understood by the welfare state as a social task to be solved. The Care Act covers the care-related additional expenses on a flat basis, so that the persons concerned can continue to live a self-determined and need-oriented life if possible. The number of people in need reached the highest level in March with 272 067. In order to continue to achieve an increase in social security, the loss of the age limit has been implemented in the care allowance, so that the recognition – and this has long been one of our demands – of the care allowance can be made possible since the birth of a disabled child. This has never been implemented by you, Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That was already possible! There's only the hard feelings!]] Then why didn't you implement it? For 30 years you have had time to do this! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes! I welcome it!]] One, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, as an insider, however, is very important to me. Especially the care of older people, who often no longer have relatives who can no longer defend themselves, demands quality criteria and control of this quality. If, for economic reasons, measures are taken in the case of peddlings that calm them, or when an artificial diet is started, PEG probes speak because feeding costs too much time, then this crime cry out for control and quality standards. Both the structure and especially the quality of the process of care, whether intra- or extramural, must be guaranteed for affected workers in Austria. Our government and our freedom ministers know where the needs of the people in the social field lie and where the weaknesses are where there is no social security. We liberals have a heart, a heart for the people in our country, what you have always missed.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11675	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11728	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I know that, according to the almost lyrical incitement and acquittal formula, which Mrs Hartinger has given to her, it will be difficult to keep up with this, as Mr Haigermoser rightly points out. However, I do not see it as our task – not even as that of members of the government – to go into forms of conjugation and incitement and to scatter incense. [[Abg. May. Hartinger: The Minister is finally doing what you have failed!]] Consecration and myrrh are not the elements that should be used in this house. Raise this for the Holy Three Kings and celebrate Christmas and the Holy Three Kings as it fits, but please forgive us with your incense here in a political debate, Mrs. Hartinger! [[Abg. May. Hartinger: Your wife, Mrs. Haidlmayr, has called for this too!]] I would like, after the law has not received the so lyrical name "Versorgungsrechtsamlungsgesetz 2002" and a number of laws to be amended in it, to take account of two laws very briefly. One thing has already been mentioned, namely the War Prisoner Reimbursement Act. I think, Minister of the State, we have already made it clear in the debate on the war prisoners' compensation law that we do not give our consent to this law, as it is available and as it is now being amended. Therefore, your claim, which you represented earlier, Mr. Federal Minister, is that all would have agreed to this law, insofar as the Greens do not participate in it. And I'll tell you why not. I do not want to explore the difficult situation of some or very many prisoners of war, but as long as a prisoner-of-war compensation law cannot ensure and does not want to ensure that war criminals – whether in the uniform of the Waffen-SS, whether they are members of the SS – do not also receive compensation, and that does not want to exclude it – and this law cannot and will not exclude it, as long as we will not give such a law the consent. Mr Dietachmayr! That is at the same time – although I do respect your request – an answer to your amendment. I think it inappropriate and inappropriate if, on the one hand, war criminals receive compensation and this is to be compensated for or somehow balanced – I do not know – that even convinced democrats who have fought as volunteers, such as the Spanish Civil War, should receive this same compensation. The Republic of Austria has dealt differently with its history, ladies and gentlemen, than this is done here with a prisoner-of-war compensation law, which is knitted according to the nature of the secretion of history and with which a uniform grey or brown veil is overlaid over the captivity of war. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Ladies and gentlemen! I stress once again on the part of the Greens: We are aware that there have been many people in war and after the war who have suffered unjustly for an injustice system. But it is the task of a law in the Second Republic to identify an injustice system as such. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And all those who volunteered for the introduction of an injustice system here in Austria, that it could establish themselves, which not only supported an injustice system, but actively contributed to the fact that this injustice system has enforced itself with violence and terror and has brought violence and terror across Europe, all of them can and do not want to apologise under the guise of a war prisoner compensation law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, has been said to you on the subject of historical truth and historical recognition of achievements. I shall come to the next law, to which we will also make an amendment in the context of this debate. For it is significant and quite comparable to the war-in-debt compensation law, with which you want to co-debt on the one hand under this "beautiful" grey-brown veil also weapons SSler, SSler and heavily burdened Nazis – or have to, because you do not differentiate in this law, whether one belongs to this group or not – it is significant that in the debate on the Committee – and we have once again led it, Mr. Feurstein – those victim groups of the Nazi regime, which still do not find recognition by the Republic in the sense of law as victim groups in the victim protection law, deny this recognition. It is the victim group of those who were persecuted for sexual reasons by the Nazi regime – that is, homosexual and lesbian persons – and it is the so-called victim group of the asocial. These are those people who were killed, for example, in the "Am Spiegelgrund" institution, when children were injected to death by a doctor who still carries a plaque of this Republic and has been officially granted by that Republic. They all wind up and think: We can tell Dr. If you don't recognize this plaque, we've given it to him once. – But the victims, they are still not recognized, no matter if they were killed or just in the educational home "Am Spiegelgrund" with syringes by Dr. Largely insulated and physically damaged and therefore considered as an asocial. And it's the victim group of the forced sterilization. And since, Dr. Feurstein, I would like to take up the argument that you, as a representative of the ÖVP in the past and also this time in a changed form, have raised. In the past, you have always stood up in these debates and have said: As long as the victim organisations, i.e. the classical associations of the politically persecuted, do not agree, there is no agreement of the ÖVP. – This your building has collapsed because the victim organisations agree; perhaps with the exception of the political persecuted’s ÖVP camaraderie, but all other victim organisations agree that these people are recognized as victim groups. So you've changed your argument and now you're saying: We checked that. In the last five years, no one has tried a request from the victim group of those persecuted for their sexual orientation. Do you know what immeasurability is? Is that what you said? – The Second Republic continues to pursue people because of its sexual orientation, as not least the debates around § 209 show, as the Second Republic continues to pursue other groups, and you say: But everyone is free to make a request! It is also the legacy of this Second Republic that it has obviously not distanced itself from its national socialist heritage, Mr Feurstein! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's shameless! Take it back!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: This is a shame! Take it back!]] Mr Feurstein! I'm accusing this with fug and right, as long as a doctor like Dr. Largely an award of this republic, as long as its victims, the so - called asocial victims of Dr. Great, there is no recognition here in this Republic. As long as people are persecuted solely because of their sexual orientation here in this Republic, with criminal law being threatened, as long as, Dr. Feurstein, we will probably not be able to demand from these victims and want them to simply make a request and so that all these humiliations and insults, all this violence done to them 50, 60 years ago, will have to be carried out in the form of new humiliations and insults. I would allow you, Dr. Feurstein, the path of suffering of one of those people who have made a request – I have spoken with some, and it is still a path of suffering in Austria to seek recognition as a political victim for one of these reasons – I would allow you to take part in this path of suffering. Any question of an official is interpreted by this victim as a new question of possible political persecution, even if it may not be true, even if the official examining this request is not at the same time the official who will ask for § 209 or another criminal law section. They are victims, they have suffered, and it is a good thing for this republic to compensate for these victims. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do not want to and will not spare you in the future that you have to deal with this of our past. Finally, take consequences in the sense of the victims!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11872	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is in an objective context with the matter of negotiation and therefore also with the debate or vote. The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11896	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! High house! Perhaps some speakers would be of good service to their minds and Austrian politics if they were to devote more to the matter and less to eternal criticism. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's be honest: The Austrian social policy, which is currently in place and which is being discussed in part today, can be seen throughout Europe and around the world. One time! Mrs Silhavy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Huber: We already heard something else!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Since you always think you have to criticize this: They worked on it from 1945 to 2000. [[Further call of the Abg. Silhavy.]] For only four years, you were not solely responsible, but at this time you worked together. This thing is not bad! The Bundespflegegeldgesetz we are talking about today is a milestone of social policy, and this milestone bears the names Hesoun and Dr. Feurstein. They were the men who made it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Oellinger! As an excellent social politician, Dr. Feurstein does not always deserve your lectures. At every committee meeting, in every plenary debate, you will always give the same talk. As dramatic as the matter may be, please at last go on to discuss matters objectively! [[Further call of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I would like to begin by saying that, in order for you to return to the subject of care allowance, you too: It works! The 320 000 citizens of Austria are entitled to benefit under this title. In this context, the officials of the Ministry, e.g. Dr. Gruber, who is present here, have a compliment. These are people who are extremely involved in the implementation. These are the positive features of social policy that we should talk about! A change of climate must also be noted on the occasion of this decision. – This has nothing to do with your Mr. Klima changing elsewhere! – They always talk about social cold. Now you can feel warmth if, for example, this law sets out that children are now involved in the performance from birth. While they have so far been taken into account with benefits from a hardness fund, the new solution has a different quality, and this has to be said once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There is also a clarification in this matter of law on the recoveries for wrongful benefits. Yes, there is! This has so far been a very difficult situation for the social security institution. It is now legally clear. It is also noted that those persons who are voluntarily insured for pension because they care for a family, for the time of retirement of the care allowance from the general public, from the state from which social pot receive the benefits for pension insurance. It's warmth in that matter! You should also keep this in mind! The treated matter also includes quality assurance schemes. I hear very often that people say that care is not provided in the appropriate quality, because sometimes the tasks also come to people unexpectedly quickly. Therefore, we must try to ensure that the caregivers receive appropriate education and training so that comprehensive care facilities can be offered. There are excellent structures in some federal states, but not in all. A way has now been found to enable quality care and also its control. It's supposed to get the money that needs care. However, the money is to be passed on to the care provider. And in practice, that doesn't always work properly. Now, for the first time, there is also the possibility – of course, only with the consent of the care payee, but at least – to look at, to conduct discussions so that perhaps even in some family can help resolve conflicts better. I believe that this is a very decisive and positive step. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today, in motions for resolutions, it has repeatedly been called upon to increase pocket money. It was, however, Federal Minister Franz Hums who demanded a reduction in pocket money because otherwise it could not be financed. Mrs. Silhavy! That's true! You can read it in the logs, it was so! [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Donabauer! I know what you and I and everyone have decided!]] They are always talking about valorization, and you can read explanations on this subject since there is the care money. They do not find a country across Europe that provides care services such as Austria. And I'll tell you something: No citizen speaks to me for a valorization! [[Abg. Silhavy: Then talk to a few citizens!]] Everyone says: Let's be glad we got this! This demand is only a party-political issue, and this should be said once again in the current debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Dietachmayr! You gave us a lecture on how wrong you think the war prisoner compensation law is. May I remind you that it took 55 years for real performance? All the time, you were significantly involved in the government. Why didn't you do it better? We are taking a first step today. I'm sorry we can't put the second for purely budgetary reasons at the moment! But the Minister has already declared that we will continue. You can trust that we will also discuss this issue carefully. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What is decided today are a number of real improvements and easier access to the services – you can read everything in the law, that is all very well done – so that in the future the citizens can also apply for support and benefits in the municipal office and thus no longer have to go to federal and state services. In addition, there are still a number of things to be mentioned, but I no longer want to think of you in the light of the advanced period. Federal Minister! I just want to say: We can present this social policy in the country, in Europe and all over the world. Many would be happy if they had only a part of what we consider to be a matter of course. That is why we will, of course, agree to all the legislative proposals because they bring further developments and improvements.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12064	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12085	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot of basics today, and we have set out our concerns about this item on the agenda. As spokesperson, I would particularly like to deal with the changes in the military service law. A little light look! It is about improvements for all those in receipt of foreign employment. In the beginning, there will be protection from the first basic investigation, starting from the pre-examination. I consider this improvement of the services to be important and meaningful for those affected, not only because we have been demanding them for a long time, but also because in the future the main task of the Austrian federal army will be in the field of international operations. The Austrian Federal Army will have to face international challenges in the future. This additional legal protection is therefore seen as a further incentive in order to obtain the necessary number of volunteers for these international tasks. In the context of European crisis management, Austria is well known to be obliged to make 2000 soldiers, women and men available for up to one year. It is therefore appropriate to support any measure which serves to obtain staff. Unfortunately, the necessary organisational and personnel measures are still missing from the Ministry of Defence, which would ensure this Austrian contribution. Ladies and gentlemen! The last amendment to the Wehrgesetz also made it possible for women to engage in military activity after the training service had been paid. Now this insurance protection will also be extended to women in the militia, and they will enjoy the same protection as their male colleagues in the future. The changes to the Army Supply Act improve the services for the members of the Austrian Federal Army, especially for volunteers and volunteer women, and thus also meet the demands of SPÖ. There is therefore agreement on this from our side.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12123	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Deputies! You do not have a voluntary time limit. If you want one: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12145	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the Federal Caring Act brings numerous improvements for the caregivers in Austria, for the army members and for the war participants of the two World Wars. All the political groups in this House support this with certain remarks, and it is not to be overlooked that the Socialist Group in particular is quite sorry that it did not implement certain things for those concerned when it took responsibility in this state and for years placed the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. It is regretted that not all former war participants, including those who were in the West, are eligible for compensation. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Colleague! We agree with the proposal.]] Mrs Silhavy! That's the problem: If you had implemented this at the time – I would have been glad if you had implemented the compensation for the war participants a few years ago in your time of government – these war participants would have had some more of it, and in my opinion it could have been much more than is planned. Single: You've been squandering all the money, so we're not available anymore. Therefore, our measures are currently subject to certain restrictions. We would very much like to pay much higher compensation for all the war participants, including those who were in the West! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On care: The withdrawal of the age limit is also very welcome from your side. I also say: It is welcome that the age limit in disabled children is now absent, that there is now an improvement for children in need of care, that there is a right to care benefit from birth, not just over the level of hardship, but in general. The quality assurance measures, as expressed earlier by Mr Feurstein or Mr Donabauer, are also a major improvement. Representatives of the social security institutions or the Federal Social Office may carry out house visits, or consultation may take place, which may be informed accordingly. New funding opportunities for projects in the care sector are now laid down by law and, of course, provision has also been made for the changeover of the euro. The reduction in pocket money was also regretted. The pocket money was reduced by 50 percent under a socialist social minister at the time. It is very unfortunate that this happened at the time, but we have now planned the following improvements: In the case of hospital and spa stays, the federal care allowance is no longer paid for just five weeks, but can now be paid for three months. In order to calculate income-related benefits, income from agriculture and forestry will be taken into account in the future as well as in the more favourable social security system as a whole. The extension of the entitlement to widow's basic pension to widows of severely damaged warriors and army members who have received a care allowance or other care-related benefits is also an extension of the circle of the claimants. There is also an extension in the area of military services – and I am very much in favour of this – which is also welcomed by Mr Gaál. Benefits under the Vaccination Act and the Victim Act are now also granted free of interest loans, which has not been the case so far. And a one-off payment and the possibility of a balance-of-value equivalent to the additional compensation allowances provided for in 2001 is also foreseen. All these are essential improvements! I am proud of the state of Austria with its social benefits.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12188	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12210	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am also very pleased that a more or less symbolic recognition for our father generation can be decided today in the context of the provision of war offerings. I don't think I've heard this. Mr Oellinger said he spoke against this "criminal crime" compensation. Am I right in assuming I didn't question myself? [[Abg. Oillingers: You can't differentiate as usual!]] If that was the case, he said that this was a war criminal compensation, then that means that he calls all those who were in war, including the volunteers, war criminals. – I am against the fact that our fathers are described as war criminals on a flat-rate basis. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Dietachmayr complains that this compensation is coming only now. He's glad he's also agreeable, but he complains that it's only now. – For 50, 60 years you have waited, 30 years leading in the government, and never has anything happened! And now he can agree. I'm glad he's trying to make further improvements. Of course, there will also be improvements in this area in the near future. But it is a first step that we are very pleased with. The Bundespflegegeldsgesetz is being improved. We're all happy with all of us when we're born. The law was also introduced in 1993 with the consent of the liberals. I would also like to make that very clear. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have also taken a big step forward to improve the situation of our disabled people. Following the first block of the agenda, we have now again made sure that, as well as in the future, we have an open ear and a heart for our disabled fellow people. And that's how we're going to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12256	The next speaker is Mr Brugger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12278	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first place, I would like to make the following point: Whoever needs the help of our social state can rely on a solidly connected and solid network – for this we stand free! We are again demonstrating this with the government proposals we have discussed and will vote on today. For us liberals, the concerns of the weakest in society were always of special importance. The government template 574 of the Supplements deals with important changes to the Federal Care Money Act. Above all, for disabled children with special care needs, as mentioned many times, the claim is introduced from birth and no longer, as before, from three years old. It also introduces – and I believe this to be particularly important – measures to strengthen quality assurance and new promotion opportunities for care-care projects. The introduction of new measures in favour of the disabled is therefore by no means solely a merit of the Greens, as Mrs Haidlmayr is very pleased to say. In this context, I do not like to talk about "merciful" because measures for the weak and the disabled are a matter of course for us liberals! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our social state has been gradually built up for many years. The social state must be able to respond to current needs. That is why we liberals are increasingly focusing social benefits on those they need so that the state is no longer in a position to react in time. Today, there has also been a number of discussions on how to compensate for accident pensioners to the extent of 600 million schilling. In this sense, the Government template on the Supply Law also contains significant improvements for service providers. It is simply about streamlining and, above all, simplifying the legal provisions. In a number of detail areas, there are strong improvements in performance. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Austria has never experienced such an efficient and responsible social policy in favour of the poor and the weak. Let us remember how the SPÖ reduced the pocket money by half to the fragile, sick and weak people, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Parnigoni: The pocket money! And you take their existence!]] A good and responsible social policy is a filigree plant, a delicate, sensitive system. If cuts are necessary, they may only take place where they are justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12319	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. As none of the rapporteurs would like a final word, we shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. Let me begin by saying that we have a whole series of votes before us. That is why I would like to draw attention to this. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law in 574 of the Supplements. There is a desire for a separate vote by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Oellinger. I shall therefore vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on paragraphs 6 and 16 as amended by the Government's proposal. I ask for an important sign upon consent. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign in this regard. – I have unanimity and therefore the acceptance. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is done unanimously again, and the draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the increase in the safety of the Bundespflegegeldsetz. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Silhavy and Mr Comrades on the valorization of the care allowance and the increase in the care allowance. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 654 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the Committee's request to take note of its report 654 of the supplements in order to give an appropriate sign. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 655 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 656 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. . I note that the request was accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report 657 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft law in 658 of the supplements. . I am briefly interrupting my remarks because we have a change as a request has been withdrawn. The Members of Parliament, Dietachmayr and Comrades, have tabled an amendment or amendment. Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades have also tabled an additional request. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Ollinger. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the bill, which have not yet been voted on by the supplementary or amending amendments and by the request for separate vote. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have tabled an additional request for the introduction of a Z1 in Art. 2 and the resulting change in the number. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The Members of Parliament, Dietachmayr and Comrades, have tabled an amendment which is of a kind. 8 C 2 refers. So I leave the way. 8 C 2 as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Dietachmayr and Mr Comrades. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. 8 Z 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval for this to be a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. The Members of Parliament, Dietachmayr and Comrades, have tabled an amendment which is of a kind. 8 Z 3 and Z 10 I am looking for those members of the House who stand up for it to be a sign. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I'm looking for an important sign. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. The Members of Parliament, Dietachmayr and Comrades, have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a Z 11 in Art. 8 refers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the remaining parts of the kind that have not yet been voted on. 8 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to this, to give a sign in this regard. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – I see unanimity again. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a social policy!]] The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 10. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (593 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the German Social Insurance Act, the German Social Insurance Act 1972 and the Social Insurance Supplement Act (SV-WUG) 11. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (594 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967 and the Federal Law on the Promotion of Interests of the Older Generation 1998 (Bundes-Senioren Act 1998) (660 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12426	We now come to the points 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. Mr Oellinger is the first to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12453	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister! I can make a brief contribution to this law – which basically means nothing but that currency changeover to euro is also taking place within the framework of social security laws. Already in the review, not only the Chamber of Labour, but also the Chamber of Commerce and other institutions have assembled that the Act on the Conversion of Currency, in contrast to the rules applicable to the private sector, applies very different rules in the conversion of currencies. If they were applied in the private sector, they would probably result in penalties being imposed. Following the government's proposal, a number of improvements have been made by the Ministry at the Committee's report, but the amendment tabled by Mr Gaugg and Mr Feurstein has again made it clear. This will restore a changeover, which will move up the tax-free limit for small businesses, thus meaning a currency changeover, which will include a small exemption of at least 3 000 S in addition to those groups of persons. Mr Feurstein! 3 000 s in addition to the tax exemption, which is little for the individual, I admit; it can mean more than 1 000 s or perhaps 1 500 s. But the sum makes the music! This is where you miss those indifference with which you are dealing with other groups of persons – in laws and with laws. There is a generous rounding up, rounded up to the top, and some additional euro will be issued as a tax exemption, although this does not allow the EU directives to be included in this law. Mr Feurstein! This is a form of currency change that is not permitted by the underlying European directives. This is a form of generous rounding, as we miss it in other areas – probably not wrong. That's where we say greens: If we are already to take technical account of a law on currency change, please, Mr Feurstein and Mr Gaugg, and not with an extra sugar for the self-employed or traders or farmers! That has already been said to you in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! That also explains why we are voting against this law adopted by you in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12502	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12524	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the currency changeover law in the field of social security is a very technical one. However, it is worth staying there for a few moments because it is an essential integration step, which is here with 1. January of next year. The cost of social security, all in all, is not quite one third of our gross domestic product. This law is very technical, point by point, amount by amount, the entire area of social security is transferred into the euro. In this way we want to express the determination of the correct conversion, the re-readable, verifiable conversion and reconversion, also towards the population. You know, it is often the seniors whose pensions and so on are affected and who do not ask loud now and there, but anxiously ask for them. Here you have the correct conversion: from Groschen to Cent, from Schilling to Euro. This changeover, this currency integration has a total of three functions. Like any currency, it is a measure of economic performance, and like every currency, it is a measure of the confidence of a population in economic performance, but it is also a measure of European integration and of how strong the euro and the cent from 1. ==References====External links==* Official website Not every man, not every woman, is dealing with the matter as has been experienced by Mr Bruckmann in a senior event. He said there: There will be converters, so everyone can see at the price they pay, or at the pension that everything is right. – An older citizen answered: Yes, but you have to distribute this converter to the boys; we have still learned to calculate the head. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] So I think we can go with confidence in this changeover. Another point I would like to make in connection with social security and the euro. We have significantly minimized the so-called monetary risk that exists in social security, especially if we pledge high amounts over years, decades and generations, through the possibilities of the large currency area. Finally, in Austria, we have come to such a high level from the experience of negative currency changeovers, especially in retirement provision, because we also need to take account of the currency risk. By entering a large currency area, this risk is minimized, thus creating the possibility to use, to a much greater extent than before, capital coverage procedures to ensure social security and to ensure the provision of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not hide that it surprises me that the ÖGB in its latest brochure is warning of such capital coverage procedures. – This is really an economic survey of the past century! The employees of the Austrian Chambers of Workers, with the introduction of their occupational pension commitments, have not recognized things properly in the ASVG's voluntary high-level insurance system, but in pension funds. You're on the right track. [[Abg. Silhavy: What a pot you're talking about!]] I believe that we should use this opportunity to take up these new ways of social security with the large currency area, with the euro changeover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12567	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. We shall now proceed to the vote, which I shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 659 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and its title and receipt in 594 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 12. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (426 of the Supplements): Additional Agreement on the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of the Philippines on social security (661 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12639	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. As neither the rapporteur nor any other Member has spoken, this debate is closed and we shall immediately vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 426 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give a corresponding sign. – I note unanimity; the request is accepted. 13. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (473 of the Supplements): Declaration by the Republic of Austria on the Convention (No. 138) on the minimum age for admission to employment (662 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12683	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There is no mention by the rapporteur. Mr Grabner was the first speaker to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12710	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In September 2000, the Republic of Austria issued the instrument of ratification of the Convention on the Minimum Age of Employment Authorisation. The purpose of this Convention is to ensure the effective abolition of child labour and to establish the minimum age for employment in which the physical and mental development of young people is ensured. This was preceded by a decision of the Council of Ministers of June 1999, i.e. from a time when there was a SPÖ chancellor. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] In this document, Austria states that a minimum age of 15 years applies to admission to employment or work in its territory. However, this declaration on this instrument of ratification has not been submitted to the National Council for adoption on the basis of an accident. The content of this declaration, according to which the minimum age for admission to employment may not be less than 15 years, and not less than the age in which compulsory education ends, corresponds to the national legal situation. Ladies and gentlemen! My group agrees with this statement and welcomes the entry into force of this agreement in Austria in September 2001. In other areas, however, the so-called reform government lacks social conscience and social competence. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What do you mean?]] With the additional contribution for the family members who have been insured so far, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you meet over 100 000 childless couples in our Republic. In most cases, the contribution must be made by women living in marriage or in a community of life, half of whom are already over 50 years old or in a pension household. It also affects unemployed women who are not entitled to emergency aid on the basis of their partner's income; they also have to make this additional contribution. It would also be necessary, in connection with the ambulance charges, to start a thoughtful break, because that does not involve what you may have hoped for. The so-called health tax again meets the poorest of the poor. Whether the revenue due to self retention should not be fully spent on increased administrative costs will also show up. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! With your policy, you burden Austrians for a fee – and this, although already 900 000 Austrians are regarded as vulnerable to poverty. – If you continue, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and the liberals, the Austrians are condemned to march through the "social desert of Gobi"! So take this agreement on the minimum age for admission to employment to reflect on your social policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12763	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12784	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! In the Declaration by the Republic of Austria to the Convention No 138 on the Minimum Age of Employment Authorisation, the minimum age for admission to employment or employment in Austria, in accordance with national law, is set at 15 years. No person under this age may be used for employment or employment. I hope that this is so in other countries, for example in Argentina, as in Austria. I'd like to. – Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12818	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12839	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The essential thing has already been said, although the subject of co-insurance and other issues mentioned by Mr Grabner earlier are not in this context. [[Abg. Grabner: But important for the people in Austria! Did you forget that?]] There has long been no more a day when we have been able to pass as many positive social laws as we do today. It should also be noted that many social laws could be passed unanimously today. This is a sign for this federal government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But now to this statement: It has already been clarified that the 15 years of minimum age are already covered by existing laws. Nevertheless, for the decision-making to be taken here in the House, clarity must be made in so far as the implementation of this State Treaty is concerned, of course, by the adoption of laws. I therefore bring according to § 76 para. 3 first sentence of GOG: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is for clarification, and I would ask you to make the decision here in the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12917	The request which has just been submitted is sufficiently supported and will therefore also be put to the vote. No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. We shall immediately vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 473 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – I note unanimity; the request is accepted. I shall also vote on the fact that the State Treaty in question, as defined in Article 50(a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is in force. 2 B-VG is to be fulfilled by passing laws. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who are in favour of a positive sign. . Once again, I note the unanimity; this is also accepted. 14. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (480 of the Supplements): Termination of the Convention (No. 89) on the night work of women in the trade (recast) (663 of the supplements) 15. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (481 of the Supplements): Termination of the Convention (No. 4) on the night work of women (664 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12987	We now come to points 14 and 15 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no mention of this on the part of the rapporteur. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Prammer. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13017	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! There has been a great deal of discussion about the ban on women's night work in recent years. But when you're honest, you have to say: However, this has not been discussed over the last one and a half years, but in the past very well. So is this night work ban discriminatory for women or not? Does it require protection for women, because they are still double and triple, especially when they are employed at night: yes or no? This debate, of course, we all know, has come into another dimension at the latest with Austria's accession to the European Union: The European Union declared the special women's night work ban discriminatory – and of course Austria has to stick to it. Today, it could basically be a formal act, namely the termination of a convention which provides for exactly this ban on women's night work. However, it is not, for us at least not, ladies and gentlemen, because it would be very time and a unique opportunity to discuss new night work, to discuss new and general night work, but not women's night work, but the night work of women and men, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I hope that all Members here in the House agree that night work not only endangers the health of people but also significantly affects them. [[New condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Greens.]] I also assume – and there are numerous work-scientific studies – that these health hazards cause significant additional costs in health and social security. I hope that all the parties here in the House agree that night work keeps people's lives in a long way, their participation in social life and their social environment in a sustainable way. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately – I remember many of you, perhaps too – that is on 7th. In December 1997, a proposal for a law of the SPÖ club – I say also one of the ÖVP – was postponed and was never seen again. What happened back then? – Our former coalition partner ÖVP has – once again! – let the heart beat the "right" spot, namely, the economy and not that of the families. Then: It's not about families today, we're talking about families tomorrow. This draft law, which was then in place, would have been a very clear act which would have taken account not only of the interests of workers and workers into account, but also of economic interests, since this draft law provided for a compensation for the competitiveness of Austrian undertakings. But, as I said, The superficial, unilateral and profitable economic interests were simply enforced at the time – and after the postponement of this legislative text no longer came to the agenda of the Committee; we had to be satisfied with a transitional law. Those people in Austria who worked at night had to find out with a transitional law. – This transitional period will end at the end of this year; we all know that. – But what is then?, the astounding public asks. – We don’t hear anything about this anyway! In this context, I fear that we will not only hear nothing about this, but that nothing will actually happen in this regard. That is exactly what you want from the government parties: no law on night work and therefore no compensation for interests, no protection of workers and workers, no reduction in health risks, no consideration for the Austrian health system. But in this you have already been trained, which is why we are no longer surprised; see the introduction of an ambulance fee, see accident pension tax. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the European People's Party and the Liberals, but today you could punish all that I have just said if you accepted our motions for resolutions. One of these I now bring in, namely: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you already have to take the nail test today. Do not talk about family policy tomorrow, but act today, in the interests of family policy, and accept this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13154	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is sufficiently supported, is sufficiently relevant to the matter of negotiation and therefore also to the debate or to the vote. The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. - He's not in the hall. The next speaker is therefore Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13183	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The ban on night work for women in Austria is now finally abolished, with the approval of these two government documents here in plenary. All other EU Member States, such as Belgium, France, Italy or the Netherlands, who have ratified this Convention, have already repealed the women's night work ban. – The removal of this night work ban – one with many holes – is another step, so to speak, into a future without obstacles. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to a press conference on the SPÖ dams, in which the SPÖ women spoke before Parliament of the abolition of obstacles. ==References====External links== April 2001 states: "Law of women in front of Parliament." – I say to you: We're doing this here in this house, in here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] We will bring about the reduction of another obstacle, namely an obstacle whose destruction with you from the SPÖ has not succeeded, with these present-day templates. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this context, I also allow myself to quote from a 1992 "standard" article by Conrad Seidl, in which he writes: "Woman Dohnal can sleep quietly. Mrs. Hostasch, too. And all the other ladies who want to ban women from working at night." It also says: "It would be high time that the officials – especially those in Lore Hostasch's private trade union – woke up and realize that workers can no longer be protected by bans." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Not bans, but responsible measures, not discrimination, but fair conditions for all night workers, both men and women! Act, instead of walls, dear opposition! Do not abuse this opportunity, do not play with the fear of people, because far better than in the EU directives, women are increasing in local collective agreements. For example, in the case of metallurgicals, consideration must also be given to the care of children under 12 years of age, and in the event of a proven risk of health, it will also be re-established on a daily basis. I would like to resist the reputation of the SPÖ and the Greens for national improvement of the Night Labour Act: The social partners are to find out about collective agreements for the currently around 300,000 night workers, two thirds of them men and one third women, something better! [[Calls of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I would like to point out a positive example, namely the public service, in which ÖAAB/FCG has the majority: There is equality in this, and women are not discriminated against there, nor in terms of salary. I should also like to say in this context: In the public service there is the same wage for the same work; that is not a keyword there! – What has not yet been achieved in the private sector – despite decades of SPÖ Social Ministers – would of course also be there. Therefore I repeat: act – and not wall! In addition, Mr Prammer said here that night work is generally harmful: Yes, we know that! [[Abg. May. Prammer: But don't do anything about it!]] She also said that we should vote in favour of her motion for a resolution. – On the other hand, I ask you: Voices You are dealing with this government proposal and you are acting socially in collective treaty negotiations that are in place in the near future!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13252	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13273	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, you can make it as easy as Mr Steibl and talk of a great success, of progress when it comes to making night work possible for all. I know, Mrs Steibl: The previous law on night work has been a problem, because it has allowed completely different rules for women, because one was not allowed to do the other. This has also been a problem because the women's night work ban had only the function of keeping women away from the labour market from its history and from its origin – just as it is now your childcare allowance. You have to say that too! [[Abg. Steibl: That's wrong...!]] This has been the declared function of the women's night work ban – and that is the explained function of the childcare allowance! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] This has been said clearly enough, especially on the part of the liberals. I already need to help the truth, Mrs Steibl, to understand! You have to see that! There is nothing to debate about, or one cannot say that one could possibly see it differently! That was so during the night work ban – and so it is with child care! But this debate is not about child care, it is about night work. But as progress, because it is now also possible for women to work at night, this is not yet to be described: on the one hand, because, as we know, night work – no matter if it is man or woman – is harmful to health, and on the other hand, because women, as we know, have women to care for children, especially because of childcare, often have to avoid night work, because of the lack of childcare facilities, Mrs Steibl. [[Abg. Steibl: I said that! That's right!]] That's why women still have to work at night! There are numerous investigations about this! [[Abg. Steibl: You already have to admit honestly that not all mothers have small children!]] Mrs Steibl, you cannot, therefore, praise night work for these women as progress, because many women have to make use of this opportunity from the point of view of the need so that they can get enough money. - And the childcare allowance? – Listening Come on! These 6,000 s! A woman with a child or two children cannot live with them! You know that as well as we do! [[New call of the abg. Steibl.]] Once again on the health damage of night work – and that is one of the most essential points, though by far not the only one. Of course, it is also a question – and this has already been mentioned by Mrs Prammer – that night work, as well as other different forms of work, limits social times, but the most worrying aspect of night work, because it is directly directed against the health of those people who have to do night work, is the health damage. Mrs Steibl, there is also something like a "ecology of people" – and this does not leave it so easy and above all unpunished that man/woman works at night, but it has clearly recognisable health consequences! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You, Mrs Steibl, said: We are not interested in this as a legislator, so the social partners should take care of how they regulate it. They said that the social partners were required on this issue. – I can only tell you the following, Mrs Steibl: That is exactly the evidence of poverty for your policy, which we are also talking about in this context. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Steibl.]] It is up to the legislator to protect his citizens from night work, and also in his own interest – I emphasize: in his own interest! – because, of course, night work is associated not only with health damage, but also with costs that the general public has to bear! If we do not want everyone/everyone to work at night completely indiscriminately, and that is not always voluntary, as I have already said, then it is necessary to limit this in a certain context. But that is the role of the legislator, and this cannot simply be taken away from the social partners. That's real. Your evidence of poverty!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13430	The next speaker is Mr Staffaneller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13451	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With the termination of the Convention on the Night Labour of Women, an EU-compliant legal situation will be established in Austria: It eliminates the international obligation to maintain a state-of-the-art protection provision for women, which has often led to discrimination against women in working life, as the EU said. Ladies and gentlemen! The creation of a legal situation which allows women and men, for example, to work in the manufacturing of electrical components in the third layer, finally opens up equal opportunities for women in many areas. If there were no night work in Europe, equal opportunities would be created for the economy, but also for women workers. However, this is not the case, and we need to adapt to European practices so that our employees and the economy can succeed accordingly. For women, it is now interesting to be trained in technical professions so far that they can also conduct and control production processes. The development of many other, higher quality jobs will be possible, and this opportunity can also be used. Poverty can be effectively addressed in this way. Ladies and gentlemen! Many women have long waited for the implementation of this principle of equal treatment for men and women in terms of access to employment, vocational training and, finally, in terms of vocational education and training; I know this from thirty years of professional experience in consulting and mediation also from socially disadvantaged women. However, occupational advancement is often only possible if a certain flexibility can be achieved on a working-time basis and the EU-compliant process is maintained. At present, training opportunities are still limited in firms. However, women seeking employment financed by the AMS are also geared to current job opportunities. There should therefore also be some change in this respect. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it should not and should not be so, that after the absence of the night-work ban for women, women are increasingly used as auxiliary workers where male skilled workers are currently working. Therefore, the economy is required to train the necessary number of women and girls in the case of skilled workers' needs, i.e. to cover the lack of skilled workers. It should no longer be the case, for example, as the current statistics on female apprenticeships of the Chamber of Commerce in Styria show, according to which the profession of retail shopkeeper of 1 400 women is taught and only 6 500 girls are trained in teaching professions, but 13 707 boys. We know why this is still the case: There was too little flexibility, and there was too little training and work opportunities in technical professions. But not only the training opportunities in technical professions must be reformed, but we also need reform in the field of schooling. In the future, it should not be the case that those schools which do not receive a professional degree are better promoted than those which offer a professional degree, a vocational degree in future professions, in technical professions. Leave I would also like to say something about border country: It is time to use the seven-year transitional period – and I am talking about a transition period of at least seven years – for the liberalisation of the labour market for EU candidate countries. This time is to be used to give women the chance to be employed as professionals and to earn as much as men! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13511	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13536	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that the ban on night work for women was introduced in 1919. Even then, protection provisions were reached for women. 2001 – that is, 82 years later – the night work ban will now be lifted. It is right that an EU-compliant regulation on night work bans should be established. But in introducing the women's night work ban, there have always been exceptions – especially in terms of care. That is why I have tabled a request for a postponement in the Committee, as there are many areas without a collective agreement, areas in which no agreements on protection for women and men are possible. You have rejected this request by ÖVP and FPÖ! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What does a single mother who doesn't have a babysitting place at night do? What makes a single woman who has no public transport available but cannot afford a car? - You don't seem to care about this from the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am thinking, for example, of the many employees of leasing companies, who are anyway sent from one job to another, and - you probably do not know - you would have behaved differently - this at a low wage. In the Committee, in particular on the part of the EIA, when there is talk of discrimination against women – and again today again by Mrs Steibl, who has said from this speaker that women are discriminated against because they are in the Not allowed to work night – then I have to say: I would have liked to know where all these women are, because I've been a long-time official, but to me never came a woman who wants to work at night. On the contrary: I even helped men get out of the night work because they didn't tolerate working at night. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Mr Steibl, I would like to say to you again: There are areas in Austria where there is no collective agreement. Now it would have been possible to achieve protection measures there through national regulations. But you rejected that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also think it is an eye-catching that is said in the Committee that women would now be in higher qualified positions by allowing them to work at night. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: They have more chances!]] I am going to look at exactly what opportunities there will be in one year, how many women will have gotten a higher qualification because they are allowed to work at night. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: More chances!]] I can already tell you today that those women, for whom there is no opportunity for business agreements, will stay on track because you were not prepared by ÖVP and FPÖ to help implement these missing measures. I would have had to know from the Federal Minister, who himself as a family father, as an employer knows the different situations at the workplace and he has to know – it needs to know! – as is the case with a single parent or a single parent, something else is expected. Those people who have no chance of being protected will become a game ball for the economy, because it is not written anywhere that we have to abolish the ban on night work today, but rather we have the opportunity to put in place protective measures. If you really know the workplace situation, where the pressure increases every day and still needs to be delivered quality, then you would have taken this into account so that we could have used this opportunity. Everyone knows – this has been said here by my colleague Prammer – that night work for men and women is harmful to health, that it is anti-education and that it is especially anti-family, because it is not possible to attend courses in the evening. [[Abg. Steibl: So anti-education...!]] – Even there, my colleague Steibl, it is possible, if there are protective measures, that the woman or even the man can get these times free for an education, but if I have no one, if I can't regulate it, it won't happen there either. If you, ladies and gentlemen, are talking about the compatibility of work and family, I have to say: You apparently don't know what you're talking about, because the fact is that all that already exists on working time forms is family hostile. We Socialists will therefore not give our consent to this government proposal, as you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, say: Protection measures have prevented all women and all men working at night.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13638	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13659	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With the termination of the Convention on the Night Labour of Women, an EU-compliant legal situation is now being established. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, Mrs Prammer and Mrs Bauer, I think Mrs Steibl mentioned this... – I have not said anything yet, Mrs Colleague, I have not said anything yet. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: But in the committee you had a different opinion!]] I am of your opinion as regards health in night work. [[Abg. May. Prammer: What are your conclusions?]] This is bad for health, both for women and for men. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Right! What do you conclude?]] That's a fact I agree with you. But it is unfortunately God's way that there are a lot of industries that do not come out without a certain night work. [[Abg. May. Prammer: What are your conclusions?]] Mr Oellinger mentioned it: One was allowed to, the other was not allowed. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Yes, but protection regulations!]] - Okay, we'll be there. Mrs Bauer! I work in a production plant myself. We've more and more recruited women. There was a single-layer operation, a two-layer operation and a three-layer operation. Sometime the quota was fulfilled. They called me ladies who meant: You guys recently hired some women, why don't you have a place for me? – I said: Because we're full in one and two-layer operation. I like to remember you, but it is not possible at the moment, perhaps at a later date. I'll notify you if anything gets free. Then the caller said: I work at night, too. A waitress, a waitress, nurses may also work at night. – I explained the legal situation to her, but she – like many other women – just doesn’t understand! You understand, that's the problem with that! Many women don't realize there are differences. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Protection measures are necessary for everyone!]] I am of the opinion that night work should be pushed back as far as possible. That is no question at all, I agree with you. I am also in favour of a legal solution because it includes all, but since there are different sectors, it will be necessary to resolve certain things by means of a collective agreement and in this respect the social partners are required, because it is not always possible to make such a decision on business agreements. [[Abg. May. Prammer: What's the end?]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: Yes!]] I would like to talk about accompanying measures relating to night work, both men and women. The Night Heavy Labour Act is revised. Time does not stop, it changes everything, that belongs to revised. In my opinion, even with regard to the retirement age, there must be a different calculation factor for those people who worked hard at night, so that they can retire earlier, but without deductions. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Right, too!]] That's what I'm saying! – Just so, we are not so far apart! [[Call at the SPÖ: Here we are on a line!]] But you have already had the opportunity to do so. They keep talking to the ÖVP that they did not agree. We'll see if they're gonna give us so much. On the issue of childcare places in women... – Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. Sophie Bauer:... votes you need majority!]] I don't have that much time. That's not a question, we need it. Perhaps vote You'll come with us sometime. In any case, we have now created the childcare allowance, in which you were against it with vehemence. But this child care allowance now offers mothers – whether they are standing alone or married – freedom of choice, because they have an income, they can decide whether to raise their children themselves or to give them to day mothers. It is very easy to expand public kindergartens, because if you extend kindergarten times, then the staff in the kindergartens also have to work longer! Working with farm kindergartens is not possible in a structure like in Austria, where, as you know, 85 percent of businesses have less than 20 employees. There are two classes again. Therefore, we simply need to put in place measures such as the childcare allowance, which allows for the compatibility of work and family life. They said that work and family could not be made compatible with this. I believe that this will make it possible to reconcile work and family very well. [[Abg. Silhavy: I have never heard such an absurd statement!]] Everything else is at too high a cost. I'm loading However, you would like to participate in discussions in an innovation of the Night Heavy Labour Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13858	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13879	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mr Dolinschek! I suppose you must have laughed yourself because it must have been kind of funny for you, what abstract thought you have made in connection with child money and reconciliation of work and family and night work. Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking here about two proposals to announce two conventions on women's night work. My colleague, Mrs Bauer, has already said this: We have deliberately tabled a request for a postponement in the Committee, because you, Mrs State Secretary, will know this, you, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties, and the Federal Government have not carried out tasks that you would actually have to fulfil, namely the implementation of the aspects of working time in accordance with Directive 93/104/EC. Even if you do not want to accept the arguments put forward by my group and that we do not want to accept national measures before we terminate these night work agreements, you should at least follow the rules of the EC or the EU. But there is not even an approach to this, there is not even a ministerial draft for it. We call for these measures to be implemented at national level first before you remove the ban on night work for women without any compensatory measures. You know that this directive requires a limitation of daily working hours for night workers, regular examinations of the health status of people working at night, as well as the possibility of moving to day-to-day work places if the performance of night work of the health of the night-working people is not acceptable. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a task you have to fulfil! However, I have not heard any comment from the speakers of the government parties on this directive at all. If Mr Steibl speaks about the tasks of the social partners at this debate on night work, I must say to her: Dear Ridi Steibl! This is not the task of the social partners. It is a responsibility of the Federal Government to implement these EU directives. That is certainly what we are calling for, that is the minimum! But there was not even an approach to this. You always put everything aside when it comes to responsibility. Then the social partners are always called for at once. But where you should carry out your tasks, where are you there? – You are stingy, you remain guilty of everything when it comes to the protection of workers. After all, you are only a party that hangs on the gangband of the economy. That's all you can say! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Economy is bad for you!]] However, Mrs State Secretary, I would like to ask you, as a member of your government, to comply with the framework conditions laid down by the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger:... Economy is catastrophic!]] It is not an economic hostility, ladies and gentlemen, if one seeks to compensate for social difficulties for people who compensate for these difficulties. Obviously, you have escaped the fact that the economy also includes people who achieve what the economy deserves at all. We are also concerned with these people, because they are part of the economy. Maybe you should write it behind your ears once! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: This is the class struggle of the last century!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You disqualify your calls yourself. They also do not necessarily bear witness to a particularly high level. Actually, it's sad for this house, but if you think you have to make politics at this level, please! It clearly shows your own powerlessness to your own legislation, to your own government! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition! If you agree to this request, you have taken a step towards solving your task, namely to implement the EU Directive. I would therefore ask you, in the sense of reason and in the sense of the commitments you actually have to fulfil, to give this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14006	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is sufficiently supported, is in a relevant context with the matter of negotiation and therefore also with the negotiation or voting. Mrs Rossmann is next speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14031	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we already agree that the old government has decided on the time of implementation, under the leadership of a Social Democratic Social Minister. I would like to keep this up so that we do not forget that in this whole debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I believe it is undisputed that night work really needs special labour law measures and that it requires a certain degree of labour protection. I mean, it is undisputed that this law, of course, also finally implements the equality of women, which the European Court of Justice has already called for in 1991. The fact that there has been discrimination against women in this area is probably undisputed. Because the EU Working Time Directive is specifically concerned with labour law aspects in its implementation, we will also take account of these aspects. I would just like to mention that adaptation to the EU Working Time Directive will be made quite clearly in the definition of night work and night work. [[Abg. Silhavy: When and where?]] This clearly means that even during the night working hours with a limit to 8 hours of the rest to 10 hours, it is to be paid as overtime. But this also means that the possibility of moving to a day-to-day work place must be created, of course, only where that is possible. Since the social partners are also required at the operational level, namely that a possibility be offered and an agreement is reached with the Works Council in the respective holding in order to allow for a shift to a day-to-day work place. We are also ready to talk about the fact that health tests may be introduced – especially in the case of night work. But there are certainly more opportunities for action and more scope for action at the operational level. The other provisions of the Directive – whether it be the working time of the other night workers, whether it be safety or health protection, but also of the working environment – are also important. The work rhythm has not yet been addressed, but it is a really more harmful factor in relation to shift work and day and night work than only night work alone. You also know that it takes urgent adaptations, especially for women! In turn, the social partners are called for at the operational level. That you want to overregulate everything is clear. However, the EU Directive is very broad, and we will meet it on these points.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14091	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14113	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The request made recently by Mr Silhavy raises the following question: Where was the application for those women who have already worked at night? – They were created wherever exceptions were needed. On the one hand, it is in the nursing service, where there is this exception, so that women have been allowed to work at night for decades, and on the other hand, there is this exception in the gastronomy. But there is this exception also to your former finance minister Androsch in the company AT&S, where he was willing to build the company only if the approval for the night work of women is granted. That is, wherever it was necessary from an economic point of view, you have given your consent to the night work of women. [[Abg. May. Prammer: But you already know...?]] Now we are finally repairing a discrimination section because you keep women away from working at night. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] There is a uniform procedure across Europe, that of 1. Women are also allowed to work at night on the labour market in January 2002. It would have been good for you if in recent years you had made sure that the income shears did not go even further apart. It was you, Mrs. Prammer, and your party, who are responsible for the fact that women have been less and less deserving of work in an ever-increasing number of jobs. That was in fact your responsibility! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Where were the improvements in the conditions for women during your term of office? – The last real woman minister – in front of the current Minister of Women Herbert Haupt – was Ms. Dohnal. She has still been working for women, although not necessarily for women in work, but at least socially she has had to show benefits. Of course, the night shift heavy work law also applies to women. Thank God! Or can I remember badly, and it is so that these have not been included? Access to the pension is still different in Austria between husband and wife. Thank God there are child rearing times and similar more. There is still a lot to do in these areas. In the case of workers' protection provisions and the Labour Inspectorate Act, points are repeatedly requested by the social partners. That's why I think what you're doing here is panic. I would like to stress once again: This had already been eaten in 1995 on the occasion of Austria's accession to the EU! The equal treatment of men and women, which you have always spoken about, is now being carried out by the current government!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14185	Mr Nürnberger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14217	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Member Gaugg has just claimed that AT&S – and thus Dr. Androsch – would have received a special scheme under the night work scheme for women. [[Abg. Dr. Grollisch: Of course!]] - That's not true! Androsch is subject to the industrial collective agreement of the trade union metal, the metal industry. In this sense, he has an agreement – no special arrangement!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14253	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on every committee proposal – I would like to pay attention; the debate is already closed! – separate aims. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the SPÖ and the Free Trade Unions]] First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Termination of Convention No. 89 in 480 of the supplements to be approved. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I notice: That's the majority. The request was therefore accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Silhavy and Mr Comrades on the elimination of the harmful effects of night work on the agenda item 14. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign of approval. – I notice: That's the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Termination of Convention No. 4 in 481 of the Supplements to be approved. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was therefore accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Silhavy and Mr Comrades on the elimination of the harmful effects of night work on the agenda item 15. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Before we go to the 16th place. There is a urgent question on the agenda. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Request for urgent notice: Edlinger an Edellinger!]] I am now interrupting the sitting for a minute to 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14328	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Rudolf Edlingerond Comrade to the Federal Minister for Finance on the future of the ÖIAG (2517/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14368	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 2517/J by Mr Edlinger and Mr Genossins to the Federal Minister for Finance. In the meantime, it has been distributed and all Members have been approached so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14572	For the purposes of the relevant provisions, I would like to give the floor to Mr Edlinger as the first questioner on the grounds of the question. The speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14593	Mr. Federal Minister! My dear friends Ladies and gentlemen! "A few days pass where a new name for a new function is not mentioned again within the framework of close-to-state companies. ,Name dropping’, i.e. the mention of known names, has become a kind of folk sport in politics. Just like the,manager-Mikado: He who is the first to touch, excites. Independentness is not asked, now streamlined careerists have high season." – This formulation does not come from me, it is one of many hundred reports in the media. This comes from Dr. Wailand from the "Kronen Zeitung" which continues in his comment: "Sometimes it looks like a spooky game: Red exudes from the outset who is on hunting parties, moves two fields forward, who even comes from the paper industry, also gets a free spin." So the economic policy you pursue will be qualified! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You know it's different!]] Furthermore, Mr. Wailand says – I'm putting this together because I'm not presumptuous...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14626	Deputies! Wait a minute, please! Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you not to practise a colloquium here. Officials are most warmly invited to take their seats. Please continue, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14644	I would also like to quote from Mr Wailand's comment, because I do not intend to be able to formulate in such scarcity as he does: "Some liberals leave their claim to rule free – and the ÖVP is looking forward to it. It is only not an internal dispute in order not to put the coalition at risk. Where does this party's economic competence remain? It was her strongest trump in the past." Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This striking description of the applied economic policy of this Federal Government, as well as many other public discussions of the economic policy chaotic policy of this government, is a matter of concern to us. The start of the current government in February 2000 also changed Austrian industrial policy, especially in the field of close-to-state and state-owned enterprises, which can be defined briefly and summarized in three points: [[Call to the liberals: Thank God!]] First of all, there is a huge re-politicisation of the ÖIAG by the appointment of supervisory councils and board members according to party political or personal interests. Secondly, the appointment of Supervisory Boards and Boards is partly with persons whose qualifications are at least to be questioned. And thirdly, the preparation of companies for total privatisation is taking place and thus for the sale of the domestic industry. Once, about 15 months ago, the SPÖ made a urgent request – at that time to the Federal Chancellor. At the time, the Federal Chancellor calmly argued by thanking him for the position of these urgent ones and saying that we had given him the opportunity to present the attitude of the government to a wide audience – there was a television broadcast. He also said – I quote from the Minutes –: "So there is no horror scenario planned, but a careful, professional, independent privatisation...." I repeat: careful, professional and independent! – Beautiful words, but all sound and smoke! The reality is another, as can be seen from the public media discussion. Careful. ==References====External links== January 2001? ",cleaning wave" in the ÖIAG. The new government has quickly put its key word on 'depoliticisation' in state-owned and close-to-state enterprises...' "He came, saw and struck. Blue-black makes the heads roll in the economy. Boards and Supervisory Boards are exchanged in the Stakkato." – This is "wary" à la Wolfgang Schüssel. [[The speaker put the following copies of the quoted articles on the speaker's desk.]] "Professional." "Management by Chaos" write the "Salzburger Nachrichten". – This is an interesting interpretation: "The ÖIAG Supervisory Board is born like a corporate lord and is interfering everywhere, although all major holdings are listed and holding only minority shares. Secret concepts about accelerated sales are made, price-damaging statements are made and the political mission of head-rolling is implemented." – Management at Chaos! "Heinzel hurts the AUA." – Your husband, ladies and gentlemen! "The "winning warning" of the incompetent ÖIAG Supervisory Boardlor Alfred Heinzel has reduced the tirelessly recovered AUA share." – All over the world, such a Supervisory Board president would have resigned the next day. "Chaos for Redemption of Telekom Chief Sundt." – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen, this is really the tip of your unprofessionality; in the truest sense of the word! Today, a Supervisory Board meeting took place, where the much-needed Ditz has not been implemented again, and again, in fact, dropped the item on the agenda and in fact pushed Deutsche Telekom's head into inability to act. This is the policy you are pursuing: intentional damage to the public economy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Independent. That was the third thing the Federal Chancellor said. [[The copy of an article put to the speaker by the speaker is tilting.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It happened now!]] For example, the "standard" writes: "Looking process in ÖIAG. In the desperate view of the Chief Supervisory Officer Johannes Ditz, the knowledge that he could be the next victim at any time was reflected. Like Stalin's chief prosecutor Andrej Wischinski, he attempts to secure his own survival through special contamination in the cleanings." – The "standard" on "independence". "What bosses fly out next," the "EconomicsBlatt" headlines. Do you, in fact, believe that this strengthens the business's ability to act? ==References====External links==* Official website May. – This is politics, you can decide! At the time, Mr Ditz tried very much at the shareholder's meeting and said that he chose the offensive in the matter of the redemption of the OMC shareholders. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Do you also have a speech or just newspaper clips?]] He explained that "no political influence has taken place." The "Kurier" writes: "Among the 569 shareholders present in the Austrian Center Vienna, there were spontaneous laughters." [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you have a speech, Mr. Edlinger? That's newspaper reading out!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a newspaper lecture!]] And the very last thing – that's what I'm going to stop, that's just a short demolition; I know you're doing more evening-filling politics in your chaotic way, but I want to save you this: [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the speech?]] "stations of a recoloration", ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! "Red out, black and blue in" – where you can put the "black" a little in brackets. This debate, which is only piecemeal, legitimizes urgency, because I believe that learning motives and backgrounds of this chaos is a matter that interests the National Council and the public as well as the future strategy if there is such a one of you at all. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The development of national residents up to the ÖIAG was difficult, perhaps not always successful, but it was carried out by the effort to act in the interests of businesses and their employees and to ensure the location. Perhaps some decisions have also been made half-heartedly, perhaps too late, but it would be unfair not to point out that the nationalized industry has for decades made a significant contribution to strengthening Austrian industrial and export shares. For example, the steel company Voest became a banner carrier of the Austrian steel industry, the LD steel process becoming an Austrian innovation of world steel. In 1993, the ÖIAG Act had set the course of making listed companies out of these national listed companies, which can also take advantage of the international challenge. The former governments sought to make the ÖIAG companies economically competitive by also pushing back political influence, but not under the responsibility of Austrian interests. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing the exchange of all persons in supervisory councils and boards who do not fit into the world view of the new government. We are experiencing a re-politicization of the ÖIAG to the detriment of the companies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the year 2000 alone, the listed companies lost 38 billion schilling in value, ladies and gentlemen! Let's take a look at this in detail: People who have been successfully active in the economy for decades, and perhaps for a few years in politics, such as Rudolf Streicher, are replaced by people who have worked in the party for decades and only a few years in the PTA, such as Johannes Ditz, or a randomly tangible, non-occupied management staff who are raised to this function. People who have launched a large public transport company into competitiveness – like Director-General Draxler – are replaced by people whose main merit it was to have greatly increased tariffs at an urban transport company in Berlin, as you can see from the media, significantly reduced passenger numbers, halved the workforce and doubled the loss in three years. These are the people, ladies and gentlemen, who have brought you to Austria! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] People who have been successful in the economy and are – like Horst Pöchhacker, Stephan Koren, Walter Wolfsberger – replaced in the ÖIAG Supervisory Board by persons whose main feature is their choice for these functions – and I emphasize that for these functions – it appears that they provide friendship services for Thomas Prinzhorn in his private foundation: Alfred Heinzel – he is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the ÖIAG and at the same time Executive Board of the Prinzhorn Foundation. Cornelius Groep – he is a member of the ÖIAG Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Prinzhorn Foundation. Veit Schalle – also a member of the ÖIAG and board of foundations of the Prinzhorn Foundation. Veit Sorger – ÖIAG Supervisory Board and at the same time a member of the Prinzhorn Foundation Council. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Where are we, ladies and gentlemen? This is a union, a scandal that seeks the same in Europe! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Never before, ladies and gentlemen, has a single man had as much influence on the fate of the domestic industry as Thomas Prinzhorn. Here, a private industrialist with his friends exerts a significant influence on companies that are public-owned and in which not private interests but the interests of the Republic are in the foreground. And you are neglecting this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Yesterday, Mr. Prinzhorn stood in front of TV cameras and said he had nothing at all to talk about. But if you know exactly what matter is, you know: Nowhere has the godfather shown up! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's where the envy speaks! The pure envy!]] For example, if Mr. Westenthaler said on 14.4. in the "profile": "He's our central economic zampano!" then it says a lot. "Zampano" or "pate" – that's actually completely sausage. Without him, nothing is going to happen in this government, ladies and gentlemen, and we are criticizing that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Staff changes also occurred in many other companies, and they always follow the same pattern: first cleaning of the Supervisory Board, then liquidation of unloving board members, cost it what it wants! I remember the union where, for example, the recognized Herbert Krejci had to leave because he was not part of the Princehorn clan. I recall the BUWOG, where the real estate agent of the FPÖ, Ernst Karl Plech, as well as Secretary of State of Grasser, now gives the tone. I recall several transport companies, where Minister Secretary of State of FPÖ has now moved in: at Brenner-Eisenbahngesellschaft, at Graz-Köflacher-Eisenbahngesellschaft or at HL-AG. I recall the changes in the Supervisory Boards of AUA, ÖBB et cetera. Cost what it wants! "200 million for colour teaching" writes the "Kurier", "Hausputz für 250 million" writes "format". They're wasting public wealth to raise unloving people. That's disgraceful, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The latest example is the IAKW. Dear Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol! I'm telling you in all clear terms: The former head of the Tourism Section of the Vienna Chamber of Commerce, the deserved Commercial Council Fröhlich, did not deserve him to come to a Supervisory Board meeting and find out during this Supervisory Board meeting that he has to pack the suitcases! That's how you deal with your people, dear Mr. Khol! – It remains written to you in the main book! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] According to a news magazine, the law firm of the Second National Council President has become a staff office of his personal "Austria AG". With the help of the Federal Government, this man has become the leader of the Austrian industrial policy, which allows FPÖ to operate and switch backbone due to lack of competence and the ÖVP. – That we blame you in public, you will have to please yourself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] How does Thomas Prinzhorn react? He says: "Only the incompetent must go!". 50 supervisory councils and managers had to go because of inability. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why you had to go too!]] What is the inability? I am particularly asking the ÖVP, Mr. Dr. Khol? What is the inability of Herbert Krejci, Mr Karl Kehrer, Mr Stephan Koren, Mr Walter Wolfsberger, Mr Josef Fröhlich, Mr Ludwig Schahringer, Mr Walter Rothensteiner, Mr Engelbert Wenckheim, Mr Georg Wailand, Mr Helmut Schuster, Mr Horst Pöchhacker, Strings, Rehulka, Bammer, Kastler, Factl, Draxler, Sundt and so on? What is their inability? You're all incapable? – You have different political views towards you, but one they have in common: You don't fit in with your concept, they just didn't stop the overcoloring because they refused the mental linkage. This speaks for the personalities of the Austrian economy whom you have turned off. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This government, ladies and gentlemen, is not about wise concepts for the Austrian industry, this government is not about location control and competence – this government is about the brutal enforcement, party and social interests, because these are pursuing FPÖ and ÖVP mercilessly: in the blue-black proportion in executive and supervisory bodies of public institutions, in the sale and transfer of domestic companies and assets to foreign capital owners, but also in the "striking" of the ORF, in the intimidation of media and opposition, in the misuse of tax millions for government propaganda, in the redistribution of arms to empire, in the burden of social weaknesses and tax gifts for the welfare, in access to study only for those who have the necessary money! This is your policy, but the bill is coming, ladies and gentlemen. At the Vienna election, the yellow card was shown to you, received at the next National Council election She's red!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14885	To answer the urgent question, the Federal Minister for Finance is speaking. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e14907	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased that I have the opportunity to answer this urgent question because it gives us the opportunity to explain the fundamentals and principles of economic policy and industrial policy of this Austrian Federal Government, while at the same time proving the complete disbelief of your argumentation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've been holding several times from this point of view: Our principle is: "Private is better than the state!" , and this proves many entrepreneurs in this country, with their heart blood, with their money, with their personal commitment and for the success of the companies. [[Abg. Edellinger: Libro! Steiner!]] Many small and medium-sized enterprises prove that they are backbones of this economy every day. That's why we say: "Private is better than the state!" [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I note that social democracy demands: Back to state property! In your urgent inquiry, you explain very detailed why state property for Austria is so necessary. Let me take a look at your change of line: In the period between 1993 and 1997, they privatized twelve companies to 100 percent. – Obviously at that time it was recognized that private is better than the state. Now you're saying, Being opposed is everything, we do total opposition! - I'm saying that's not a line! We have a modern industrial policy that is good and positive for the site. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, if you say: Back to the past! – at a time when taxpayers had to shoot many billions of schilling into a national industry and at the same time many thousand people in Austria lost their jobs. I should like to give you an example that has been raised today. The AT & S is an example of a privatisation that we have not, but you have done, and an example of your own failure in the time of national policy. The AT & S was a 100% state-owned company. The AT & S has done a piece of art in 1989 in the time of a Social Democratic Minister of Finance and Federal Chancellor and under your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, which reads as follows: 1989: Sales in about 350 million Schilling, operating loss 370 million Schilling, reported balance sheet loss 600 million Schilling. – That’s how you managed, ladies and gentlemen! This has been achieved by Social Democratic Finance Ministers! We want to do it differently. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I should like to continue with the example. 1990: red figures, 1991: red figures, 1992, 1993: red figures. In 1994 you said there was no hope anymore: If we sell this company, we do not believe in a sustainable renovation of the AT & S! They laid the half-yearly balance sheet 1994 as the basis for the purchase price, and it was known to be very low from today's point of view. Already in 1994 – privatisation took place in November 1994 – when it was privatized, a profit was first recorded in this company. In 1995 the mobile boom of this company overrun. Today this company has a stock exchange value of 7 billion schilling; 15 billion schilling has already been declared a stock exchange value. If we were to privatize like this, you'd blame us: Procrastination of popular wealth, self-service mentality, the economy of friends! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't do this, but I congratulate Director-General Dörflinger and also Hannes Androsch and the team on this great company success, because that means: Value added increases, jobs created, made a significant contribution to the site, and this because it was a 100 percent privatized company. A sample example of how to successfully privatize. Private is better than the state – you have proved this for a long time! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I'm allowed to continue and make you an offer, which means: Let's just measure ourselves by the performance, ladies and gentlemen! This has always been known by the Federal Government. What is smarter for the taxpayer, what is smarter for the location Austria? In its time, Minister of Finance, Federal Chancellor, SPÖ has generated privatisation revenues of 20.4 billion Schilling from 1982 to 1997. We have generated privatization proceeds of far more than 30 billion schillings in a year and a half alone. They left us in the ÖIAG debt of 86.6 billion schillings, we reduced these debts to 37.9 billion schillings in one year, more than halved, through very successful privatisations at the P.S.K., at the airport and at Telekom Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Edlinger! As my predecessor, you have pursued a policy of selling shares of Austrian tobacco plants so that you can repay interest rates. They have given up the taxpayer's assets to repay interest. The debts have remained. – That was your policy, and we reject such a policy! We are responsible for the wealth of the taxpayer, for jobs, for the location Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They have referred to the stock exchange value of ÖIAG's shareholders. I mean, we should take serious numbers, and these serious numbers, ladies and gentlemen, say: In May 2000, the total stock exchange value of ÖIAG's 28.9 billion Schilling companies, in May 2001, one year later, was 35.15 billion Schilling. – An increase in a time of falling stock exchanges, at a collapse of some indices, an increase of 6.2 billion schilling value for the taxpayer, for the population, a performance of more than 20 percent – you have to do that once! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You accuse us of being a friend of ours, you accuse us of party-political posts, you accuse us of settlement payments, ladies and gentlemen! I can only say to that: Please open your mind, acknowledge that there is a new time, do not transfer Your system of the past, of the business of friends, of the proporze and post-checker, of payment of settlements, into today's time! This is a new federal government that feels committed to performance and quality alone. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I really think it is more than presumptuous that you, Mr Edlinger, are producing yourself here and are now talking about the economy of friends and the occupation of posts. I brought with me a folder that my cabinet, the Ministry of Finance, prepared me, which clearly shows where there have been social democratic occupations everywhere, but I do not have the time to read to you the names painted red. For example, I am thinking only of the ÖIAG, that there was a former Minister Staribacher, who was president of the ÖIAG, who could be nominated by the trade union into the privatization society of the Republic. Those were your times! AUA, Control Bank, Oesterreichische Nationalbank and many other companies, there you have clearly occupied according to party policy. In her time, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, contracts fall, which, above all, have ensured the discharges, the pension benefits and which lastly made the benefit come to pass, and therefore your responsibility falls on contracts, as she had a Hugo Michael Sekyra, as she said. Mr Apfalter, on the basis of which a Mr Factl received his discharge. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] A Mr. Bammer and a Mr. Rehulka have such contracts. This also includes your former German Chancellor climate, who has also received a corresponding settlement from a semi-governmental company. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Party Book Economy to Death! That's the truth!]] Our criteria are quality and performance and are party-independent to the success of these companies. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Now I can go over to answer your question, and I am sure to know what you are asking for, namely, the legal situation of this urgent question. You know that issues raised in this context mainly relate to matters which are not the subject of the execution by the Federal Minister for Finance. The Federal Minister for Finance exclusively exercises the rights of the Republic of Austria as the sole owner of the ÖIAG at the general meeting of the ÖIAG. It therefore has no possibility, in accordance with the existing legislation, to influence the selection and appointment of organ members in OEIAG's equity companies or in Group companies. Furthermore, the present issues concern, in large part, decisions taken by OEIAG's and the Group companies of such equity companies. There is therefore no jurisdiction for the execution of the Federal Minister for Finance, nor is there any matter of the administration of the federal government as a body of private rights. The questions are therefore largely not covered by the question law as defined in § 90 of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, with regard to this legal basis, I can only express myself in agreement with the ÖIAG, and the information now provided is, therefore, largely information I have received from the ÖIAG. Question 1 may I answer as follows: The costs for the consulting company responsible for selecting members of the board of directors of ÖIAG amounted to 1.9 million schilling, for board members to 1.6 million schilling, and for the other companies no consultant fees have been paid. On question 2: No payments have been made in connection with the withdrawal of Supervisory Board members. Payments relating to the withdrawal of members of the board may not be made for data protection reasons. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Ah!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Stand still in the paper!]] Question 3: If you look at the price development on the Vienna Stock Exchange in the years from 1994 to 2000, for example, and compare it with the Euro Stock Index, you will know that we had a EuroStock index, which rose by 170 percent in these six years, while the Vienna Stock Exchange has practically persisted at its level and has not been able to make any increases. Since the beginning of 2001, the ATX has increased by more than 10 percent, one of the best-developed stock market indices worldwide, while the EuroStock index fell by 7 percent. We were able to record an increase in the stock exchange value of ÖIAG companies by 6.2 billion schilling. That is why I am deeply convinced that the privatisation initiative of this Austrian Federal Government is the right way. Whether the contact person is in the USA or Asia, there is a hugely positive feedback for this privatisation initiative everywhere. Everyone knows: This is the success of these companies, which is important for the economic location of Austria and for the jobs in our country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very sovereign!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Not even the argument is true!]] Question 4: This is about the course development of Telekom Austria. You certainly know how other Telekom companies have developed since the beginning of 2001: The British Telecom has minus 10.7 percent performance, the Telecom Italia has plus 1.6 percent, the Swisscom has plus 4.4 percent, the Deutsche Telekom has minus 19 percent. Telekom Austria has plus 6.5 percent and has thus been the best developing value since the beginning of 2001, better than that of Deutsche Telekom, better than that of Swisscom, better than that of Telecom Italia, than that of British Telecom. I can also see no negative influence of the Management Board discussion in the price value. [[Abg. Edlinger: Why does Sundt have to go?]] Perhaps this is a positive investment for the future, because this federal government is committed solely to the performance, positive development of a company and the turnaround. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! You left us problems in the AUA, you left us problems in Telekom, you were unable to bring about a timely separation of the mail and Deutsche Telekom. Your Minister of Finance climate is responsible for the fact that we had to carry out the last privatisation. You left us problems in VA Tech AG. They should support us because we are doing well again what You've done it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: If stupidity could scream, it would be loud in the hall! Why does the Sundt have to go?]] Question 5: I assume that the company-specific reasons were decisive for the price decline in the AUA, but your opinion is that if you say a less discussion would be good. But this also applies to the opposition, because one should give companies the opportunity to develop in peace and to carry out the business activity. On question 6: As the Federal Minister for Finance, I do not have the majority in any Supervisory Board. As you know, the Supervisory Boards are elected by the Annual General Meeting. I cannot therefore comment on the procedure mentioned, since this is a matter of the AUA's Supervisory Board and lies in its organ responsibility. Question 7: I can give the answer on the example of the ÖIAG: A Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Dr. Staribacher, who, according to his own information, was nominated there by the union, and a Supervisory Board, which fulfils the criterion of a proportioning, we have replaced with a Supervisory Board composed of the following personalities: Dr. Paul Achleitner, Dr. Cornelius Gruppe, graduate business assistant Alfred Heinzel, Dipl.-Ing. Jürgen Hubbert, Franz Rauch, Director Veit Sale, Dr. Veit Sorgr, Dr. Paul Tanos, Professor DDr. Hellwig Torggler, Dr. Erich Wiesner. These are entrepreneurs who, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, are responsible for about 500 000 employees and who are responsible for some 2,000 billion schilling sales and who have therefore proved with their experience and with their know-how that they understand to manage large corporations. We must therefore be grateful that they have assumed responsibility for the ÖIAG as Supervisory Boards. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I may submit the question to the other Supervisory Boards in writing to you as an information of the ÖIAG, since this falls within the responsibility of the ÖIAG. Question 8: The Supervisory Board of ÖIAG has been replaced in accordance with the legal obligation for a professional search for personnel with independent and successful economic managers and personalities with many years of experience in economic life. [[Abg. Edellinger: Who independent?]] They guarantee that the possible political impact on market processes will be finally eliminated. This mode, which we have chosen, namely the self-renewal of the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG, ensures the depoliticization of the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG. In this context, I should also like to point out that, in your responsibility, Mr Edlinger, the appointment and appointment of members of ÖIAG's Supervisory Board was directly with the Federal Minister for Finance and thus, contrary to today, was possible appropriate political influence. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: You know that's wrong!]] This distinguishes the work of the past from that of the new Federal Government! We are for depoliticization, for private management! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I can also say that, without any legal obligation to do so, we have been able to provide support from a staff advisory firm to meet, as far as possible, the criteria of objectivity, goodness and quality in the appointment of these supervisory councils. The costs of this staff consulting company are set out in the answer to the first question accordingly. On the question 9: As regards the amendments to the Executive Board, it is to be said: After the resignation of Dr. Streicher from the Board of Management of ÖIAG as at 31. On 25 January 2001 the Supervisory Board decided. May 2001 appointed Dr. Peter Michaelis as a further member of the Board of Directors of the ÖIAG alongside Dr. Johannes Ditz. I may also submit to you in writing as an information from ÖIAG. On questions 10 to 13, I should like to say the following: Executive Boards and Managing Directors are generally appointed by the responsible corporate bodies according to their professional suitability and professional experience. In general, a public invitation to tender shall be made if necessary in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Act. Emphasizing once again: Quality, performance, experience, personal background are the criteria according to which our Supervisory Board positions or those of the ÖIAG are exercised in their responsibility. Question 14: This is a particularly interesting question, it concerns my private apartment that I have acquired. It is asked whether Mr Ernst Karl Plech, who was appointed Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the BUWOG, was also my real estate agent. First of all, I can tell you that, as you have already said from the reply to Parliament's question 2227/J of 28. On March 1, 2001, any contractual relations in my private sector are not subject to the right of question in accordance with § 90 of the Rules of Procedure. In good German: That's relatively little for you! [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: This speaks for the "quality" of the Minister of Finance! Don't be angry with me: that's a character!]] On the other hand, however, I say very clearly to you: They underestimate the Federal Minister for Finance. I normally read an advertisement in the newspaper, went to the owner of this apartment, looked at the apartment and then bought the apartment at a fair price. I didn't serve any real estate consultants. Therefore: The independence is relatively great! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But this has now sounded like a very bad conscience!]] [[Lively ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In contrast to your ranks, I can tell you: My conscience and my white vest can You've been exploring for many years! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Questions 15 to 17: In the performance of its functions, the bodies of ÖIAG are only bound by the ÖIAG Law 2000, which defines in particular the tasks of privatisation management and participation management. The ÖIAG-Law 2000 orders in § 8 para. 4 that the Board of Directors of ÖIAG shall submit to the Supervisory Board a multiannual privatisation programme for the companies whose privatisation is intended to be approved. This privatisation programme is in line with a medium-term approach. This was also submitted by the ÖIAG accordingly. They are familiar with the privatisation mandate of the Austrian Federal Government, which includes the following participations: Austrian State Printing, Dorotheum, Print Media Austria, Vienna Airport, Telekom Austria and Austria Tobacco. I do not see a time limit – with the exception of the wording: "to privatize in this legislative period". That is why I do not see the time pressure you are addressing in your question. I am convinced that it is in the interests of Austria as before, that is: Increase in the value of these companies, i.e.: Keeping decisions in our country, i.e.: If possible, not only will jobs be maintained, but they will be increased, i.e.: Increase the value added of these companies, i.e.: serve the site Austria. It is precisely this way that ÖIAG's privatisation line is defined! On the question 18: The question of the sale of federal shares in the ÖIAG does not arise at the present time. On question 19: ==References== In May 2000, a privatisation contract was issued at the general meeting of the ÖIAG. An adapted or new privatisation order has not been awarded so far. On the last question, on question 20: As the ÖIAG states, further considerations will be carried on responsibly in consultation with the Ministry of Infrastructure, taking into account the necessary needs and regional policy circumstances. The goal must, of course, also be the achievement of a turnaround in the mailbox. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say: Modern industrial policy does not mean state property, as you have determined it, does not mean building walls around Austria, but means putting trust in private property means attractive framework conditions for our economy, means increasing the degree of freedom of the economy. You certainly know the investigation that has recently been presented worldwide, in which Austria was awarded 25th place in 15th place, i.e. 10th place forward. This was possible because we liberalize the economy and thus contribute to more growth, create more jobs in our country, achieve higher income and higher quality of life. This is a way you can be proud of and support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e15305	We are now going into the debate. It is known: Each club has a speaking time of 25 minutes, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Before I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Edlinger is given the floor for an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. Rules of Procedure: known. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e15347	Mr President. Minister! A few minutes ago, Federal Minister Grasser claimed that the former Finance Minister had personally and directly made supervisory orders in ÖIAG companies. - That's wrong! Rather, it is true that I have never made such orders. [[Call to the liberals: But have acquired!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Secretary of State!]] I would ask you to take note of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e15399	I call Mr Cap. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e15429	High house! What we have experienced today was an example of arrogance of power. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] The Sunnyboy smile of Mr. Finanzminister is gone. He always wants to be the preferred student. Today I have to say: Theme missing. Not enough. Sit down! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser holds a table in the height with the inscription: " Buenos Dias SPÖ! Viktor Klima. 27 million OES disbursed."]] He can't make himself here and say: My name is Grasser, I'm in the Ministry of Finance, and I don't know anything! No one's taking it from him! Or maybe he wants to explain to us if he's soon looking for one of the supervisory councils who's escaped that he'll only hear more "tut-tut" on the phone and say: Oh, why doesn't anyone report? And then some secretary comes and says: There will be a change, we have to ask! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Shame for the Kostelka!]] Or does he want us to know that he's looking for one of his boards and that suddenly someone else is reporting and he says to it: Jö, such a coincidence, a friend of mine sitting on the board, yes, how did you get there, you can't tell me how to do it?, and that he'll tell him the story and say: [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] Yes, that was quite, very difficult, but one day Prinzhorn came, and suddenly I was where I am now!, and he then says: Tests, I'm surprised!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] So about the story he wants to tell us today! That's what I'm telling you: He doesn't need to tell us that, because if a cleansing campaign takes place here, a günter lunch from the GDR – for you from the SED – can only dream of, that is, with what perfection this takes place, then I can only say: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a "real" clubman with "format"!]] This is a state-socialist cleansing model that we are presented here, which is looking for the same thing. Believe me! North Korea can still see how to make changes in the economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I find the sentence best: Private is better than state. – Look at this: There are private companies that have failed, and there are state companies that have failed; there are private companies that have made profits, and there are state enterprises that have made profits. [[Call to the Fidelity and the ÖVP: "Consumer"!]] Everything else is ideology! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the "consumer"?]] Do you know what ideology is? – Ideology is when I say: I'm selling a company now, no matter what price, I have to. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How long have you studied the speech!]] I feel a urge, I have to, I have to go to the stock exchange! Oh, I'm only getting 11 billion! That's a bad luck! But I have to, I feel a urge! – That’s ideology! Or for you, Mr Westenthaler: You go to the Naschmarkt, suddenly a cucumber seller comes, and you say: I don't want any cucumbers! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I think you have studied the speech before the mirror!]] He says: Anyway, I'll sell it to you anyway! For nothing! Cheap! And then you have the cucumbers for the cucumber salad. – This is your market-economic understanding! This is your economic competence! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to answer the questions: When I think of the consultants, I'm gonna get some slugs. By chance, an "independent" consultant firm always selects those people who want to be party-political, but who are without a party book – I know – but who have those close spiritual and physical relationships that guarantee that everything is right when the positions are occupied. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr Kostelka, stay at Klubobmann!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He will never get the style Kostelkas!]] In question 2, we would have been interested in the total sum of all payments and expenses. This is not covered by the Data Protection Act. Tell us: Was it 200 million schilling? Was it 250 million schilling? What was You worth this power-political game à la DDR? What did the taxpayer have to find out about the fact that Princehorn and you have accommodated your people? – By the way, why is it so quiet all the time at the ÖVP? Have you not accommodated anyone? Or have you been forgotten again? Or is it different now: Do they forget about you now? – That would be a new variant. [[towards Freedomable Wise]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Mitterlehner is your opinion anyway!]] What does Herbert Krejci say? – Herbert Krejci says: Supervisory Boards are stamped to party stallions, disassembly disassembled and removed without regard to losses. This is criticised by Herbert Krejci, former Secretary General of the Industrial Union. This game is extremely dangerous for the economy. Krejci is particularly angry that the People's Party leaves the whole field of Thomas Prinzhorn. Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel does not understand that policy in this area is also personnel policy. The ÖVP has absolutely resigned. – So he's already describing the condition you just have in this quote. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now we want to deal with Mr Prinzhorn a little bit more, because he has created this great sentence: "Only the unable must go!" Is Mr Prinzhorn such a great economic stallion that he is so much allowed to act as a neoliberal economic guru? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Finally he reads the "Falter"! At least one reads the "Falter"! Economic policy from the "Falter"! Economic policy from the "Falter"!]] Let us come to terms with a former Minister of Finance, who must know: Hannes Androsch. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Tax evasion!]] The fact that he still exists as an entrepreneur, says Androsch about Prinzhorn, made the then Minister of Finance possible in 1978. He received the state financing guarantee for a paper machine only through the express mandate of the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is economic policy à la "Falter"! Cap! Economic policy à la "Falter"!]] In the 1990s he was in the economic dying room. And again he was re-animated by massive state aid. I therefore cannot understand his state philosophy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You should read something different than the "Falter"!]] More thankful humility would be more than appropriate. That's why Princehorn's Credo in reality means: I'm nothing without the state! – That’s the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, all of this is reduced only to the fact that Prinzhorn understands under privatization: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr. Cap! The viewers on the stand leave the room in a hurry! They're all going home! They're talking, and they're all going home!]] Self-service. He simply wants him and his people to serve himself on the popular wealth that one has previously spoken badly and then wasted. That's the truth! One has to tell the Austrians what is going on here. You can describe the dudes: Instead of "Private" it means "self-services" in your language, in the "blue dudes" you should write sometime. Instead of "departmental politicizing" it is called "friendly economy". They create a new language culture. In order to understand you at all, you should translate it so that you can see what's really going on. What I find particularly appealing is the entire core shareholder debate and the consequence of your privatisation strategy, that in the end something can happen with the sale of Austrian key industries, which we will repeatedly point out. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Bank Austria!]] Local security will be at risk, workers will be at risk. Her sentence "Austria first" now turns into "Austria last". This is your philosophy that you bring in! They are the jobs Wurst, and you are also indifferent to Austrian property. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If that is so, then, I believe, the sentence of Prinzhorn makes sense when he says: Only the unable must go! – It is time for you to finally take all this sentence into account. In fact, he is voting for you – also for the ex-sunny boy.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e15758	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e15790	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! I think I am really doing you a great favor by not responding to Mr Cap's speech at all. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But, of course, we are very happy about the urgent question, which is also about the division of Mr Edlinger, because he has explained something about it today. What do you mean "coloring"? – Everything must have been coloured before! Was that randomly red-colored? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Was that random red-colored like your tie, colleague Edlinger? – It has not been changed here, but it has been used here on the basis of the qualification. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Each reasonable economic operator shall exchange its management board if it does not work in the company. This has nothing to do with coloring – perhaps just coloring in your mind, but not in our sense! Mr. Alt-Finanzminister Edlinger! [[Abg. Edlinger: What is it, Mr. Alt General Secretary? Do you have anything to say?]] I remember very well when, at the time in the Austrian Control Bank, it seemed absolutely necessary to set up a third Executive Director, because one needed a post for the former Deputy Minister of Transport Scholten. There was a Supervisory Board meeting. The Supervisory Board meeting of the Austrian Supervisory Bank on matters of the Management Board took only a short time. This is not a protocol, it is a letter from Mr Gerhard Praschak: Rudolf Scholten is appointed third member of the board, but with a contract term of five years; the old contracts run for only two years. – So there is a need for a third director, because that is reddish, as you have said, Mr Edlinger! [[Abg. Edlinger: I never said that!]] [[Contradict with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's incredible!]] There was a need for a third director, because the business areas there were so intensive and bloated. Praschak committed suicide because he was forced into his knees by the political red system. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Party Accounting!]] That's what he writes in his farewell letter. He also writes in this farewell letter that he met with Scholten on the occasion of a lunch to discuss the business division as it is necessary due to the function, after clearly clarifying the miserable division of rooms. Scholten said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, If it remains with the previous division that he remains chairman, then there is decent Zoff. In fact, it is a security risk in the sense of the main owner. If he doesn't stick to it, then you'll play the political card. Yeah, what about the liberals? After all, the socialist! That's fact. And that's what you're finally writing behind your ears! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Generate yourself! Shame, Mr. Edlinger.]] When he then saw how to deal with him – that's not an invention, that's all here in this farewell letter, the authenticity has been confirmed by each side – he said: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Party Book to Death!]] The mill is closed. The mill is closed – this is your dealings with people. [[Abg. Young: Mill of Unpowerful!]] What you blame the liberal is unjust, because what you do is humane! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We now have the feeling, for you the timing starts on 4. February 2000. Everything that was before didn't exist. There has been no billions of disaster in the national industry. There has been no "consumer" – at least 26 billion schilling, which has been used by the board director of the "consumer" and has added all the responsibility to him, although the responsibility lies with the owner. And who was the owner? – The Austrian Trade Union Federation! According to the qualification criteria of the Trade Union Confederation selected its Supervisory Board or appointed the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, it is asked, after this one has given a pitiful picture in a television discussion, since he did not even know what was a balance sheet, which in a balance sheet is investment and circulation assets and what liabilities are. Take it as the chairman of a Supervisory Board! That's where you want Mr. Gerharter to be interested in court, even though the sole responsibility lies with the owner's representative ÖGB! Here you just wanted to shift responsibility to the smaller one, but the responsibility lies with you. We will never let you out of this responsibility. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is a chronology of debtors and job destroyers: Lacina, strings, climate, one, edellinger. - All these are parade examples. Have you forgotten all these examples? – In addition to the "consumer", there were the national billion-billion-pleite trading: at least 4 billion schilling; Chemistry Linz, Merx: 600 million – that's less than 1 billion, we're not talking about it at all, are we?; this is a lercherl for you –; Mega Pleide AMAG: 15 billion schilling; Mega-mega-bank scandal CA-Landesbank – a federal law had to be created so that it could be written down for 15 years, otherwise the Landesbank would have to go to Riemergasse at that time! You know that very well. The Federal Budget continues to provide billions of money annually. And so on and so on. – This is an economic policy, which means that it is necessary to privatise the state from the economic responsibility of businesses. You yourself have said by promoting coalition negotiations with the ÖVP, privatising them, and the goal is to quickly manage 75 to 80 billion schilling – 75 to 80 billion schilling! On how to deal with the so-called privatisations before, I now give you an example. [[Abg. Eder: Where did Mr. Steiner flee? The private entrepreneur Steiner? Where did Steiner flee? Rosenstingl! Where's Mr. Steiner?]] The Court of Auditors report makes it quite clear that the ÖIAG lacks a comprehensive business concept for all business sectors. Why it comes to the whole, shows the following example of how you have privatized: In the case of privatisation in the ÖIAG earlier, no assessment has been made, no assessment of the assets has been made, but at least one has – the Court of Auditors has found this – subsequently produced a so-called justification opinion. [[Abg. Edlinger: Mr Alt General Secretary! You've been better!]] Let me give you an example, the Austrian metal: In 1996, the Austrian metal was sold, and two years later, the AMAG already made a profit of 412 million schilling, although it was still a grant company of 1.2 billion schilling in 1996. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: One of the best examples at all!]] This is a parade example! Who gave it to? – One has not even given an opinion on the asset of this value! You accuse this federal government of wasting property! You scared it! They were the ones who caused the fact that the value of postal and telecoms was not to be achieved through two measures – you know that very well: The first measure was: Through the phone fees commitment key, you have exhausted up to 10 billion schilling every year, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1995 and so on, between 7 and 10 billion schilling. [[Abg. Edlinger: Not and so on!]] What was the result? – The result was that the post in 1976 had a capital share of 13.3 percent in Austria – in Switzerland it was 94 percent. In 1991, the post was already in debt with 54.8 percent of foreign capital – 70.2 in Switzerland. In Switzerland, the share of foreign capital has dropped, and in Austria it has gone up. They have – and the trade unionists of the Post have criticized this – constantly eroded the post and sold it in a fallible state, or concluded a syndicate agreement with the Italians during the first transaction, which has severely discriminated against successors. Whoever was responsible for this option that was sold to the Italians in such a way that there were also these problems, was none other than the then chief of the cabinet of Mr. Vranitzky, Mr. Kramer – he has pulled the strings there, that is fact. They were the ones who have caused the post and Telekom of this privatisation proceeds to be reached, but this paper is a very safe investor paper and will still bring much joy to the Austrian public shareholders in the future. [[Abg. Edlinger: No one believes that!]] Finally, Mr. Alt-Finanzminister! – I wasn’t a Secretary-General! [[Abg. Edlinger: Please, Mr Alt General Secretary!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He was never Secretary General, but you can't know that! You still believe today, we only have 20 billion schilling deficit!]] Dealing with the numbers was always your biggest problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16038	Please, now the legal speaking time has also expired. I'm asking for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16054	Thank you, Mr President. . In my conclusion, I would like to say that the measures put forward by this Federal Government towards the privatisation of the ÖIAG are the right ones. Thank God this Federal Government was elected with Minister of Finance Edlinger!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16083	The Federal Minister has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16104	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to reply to Mr Edlinger's actual correction because I do not want to leave it to be actually corrected. § 4 para. 1 ÖIAG Act has read: The Federal Minister for Finance has to submit his proposal to the Federal Government before the appointment and appointment. – If this does not specify the competence of the Minister of Finance to appoint and convene the Supervisory Board, what then? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He doesn't know that anymore! He forgot!]] – You obviously don’t know what skills you had, or don’t remember.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16140	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16189	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's urgent request from the SPÖ is really amazing. I would almost, if I didn't have to worry about a call for order, use the expression "Chuzpe" – I don't use it, Mr President – but amazingly, this urgent question really is. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] It is not surprising because it is so urgent that the partyobmann and the clubman are no longer there, it is not surprising because the urgency is expressed in that, on the side, entire paragraphs of a also urgent request with date 26. April 2000 are written down, but it is therefore amazing because a party acts as a protector and savior of the domestic industry, which is politically responsible for the largest industrial debacle in the history of the Second Republic, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The replacement clubobmann is here!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is responsible for the debacle of the nationalized industry with more than 100 billion debts, with tens of thousands of lost jobs. This party, which is politically responsible for the largest trading business in the history of the Second Republic – the "consumer" keyword: more than 20 billion debts, 5,000 lost jobs – is playing its role here as the patron of the domestic and domestic industries. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Were you not also in the government and responsible for it?]] That's amazing, ladies and gentlemen! I do not use the other word consciously now, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: To the Howhern it is!]] It's amazing second, my Ladies and gentlemen, in this question, this party complains that federal shares are sold, that family silver, as it says, is sold, and you do not know that you have caused the whole thing. Because why is that happening, please? – Because this family silver was burdened with more than 100 billion liabilities and debts! We agree that the ÖIAG must act exactly as any ordinary merchant. If today a company that is over-indebted to a private company is the first question of every reindeer: Where is a non-commercial asset that can be sold for the rescue of the company? – The alternative you obviously want would be for the taxpayer to repay these debts. That is why we are protecting ourselves against taxpayers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It won't be the little pensioner, it won't pay back the little worker what you caused! That's what this government's doing. At the beginning of this government, the debt was over 80 billion schilling. In these one and a half years, it has succeeded in halving this debt. I acknowledge that it is a lot of social if we cancel debt through asset sales than by taxing the small taxpayer, which was your long-standing strategy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This urgent request is amazing for a third reason: Your basic philosophy is expressed here again. It is always called "Austria", and Austria is the state. – It means you are for the Austrian nuclear shareholder, but that can only be the state. They are for Austrian property, but that can only be the state. – That's why we're different: We are committed to private property, ladies and gentlemen. We confess ourselves to the private investor, and not only the state is an investor, not only the state can be core shareholder. This is your philosophy: Austria is the state, and the SPÖ is the state. – This philosophy of thinking, ladies and gentlemen, is over, that is 30 years of history. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: weren't you 14 years in the government?]] Now it's called "Rerule Austria". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs. Colleague! I also notice one thing: The urgent request also mentions a number of names. The name Veit Sorger, the name Cornelius Groep, the name Alfred Heinzel and the name Veit Slange are mentioned. They are not accused of being bad managers – these are top calibers in the Austrian industry – but they are accused of being friends with Thomas Prinzhorn. Very amazing! [[Call the SPÖ:No, not at all!]] They ask who was whose real estate agent. Next time, ask whose children went to school with. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] This is for you economic policy, ladies and gentlemen. – These are ridiculous questions, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Steiner!]] I'll tell you one thing: I am very happy and grateful that such a great caliber as a veit sound, a veit worryer, a Cornelius group, a Alfred Heinzel were at all willing to do what you have caused, my dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Where were you the 14 years?]] But one thing I say to you in all balance: I would also like some staff discussion to be conducted in the large area of the ÖIAG more in the organs and less in the public. In fact, there is a discrepancy. Look Today's "Economic Sheet": The ATX, which contains 40 percent listed ÖIAG companies, has a unique annual high. So there is a first-class performance, but in the public there is a negative image due to these personal discussions, and I regret that. I would therefore like these staff discussions to take place less in the public! I would also like to say one thing: Unlike in the past – the Minister has said it very clearly – organ discipline now prevails. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: With an arrogance that normally a Federal Minister should not have!]] The Stock Act applies. There's no ruling in there. The Supervisory Board shall execute the Executive Board order in accordance with the Stocks Act. There are no political calls, Mr Edlinger. We do not want to speak, therefore, because we do not want exactly these political calls. [[Abg. Edlinger: Go, stop! Do you believe that yourself?]] There are responsible leaders who have the responsibility to bear the responsibility under the Stocks Act. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Edlinger can no longer imagine that!]] They'd make political calls. We know that, Mr Edlinger. We don't do that. That's different policy. That also means "rerule Austria". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's beyond his imagination!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We see today that the policy of the Federal Government is correct with this forced privatisation of industrial policy. Industrial policy does not mean governing politics in industrial enterprises, as you have always understood it, but means improving location conditions so that our Austrian industry is competitive. It is socially right because privatisation is the only guarantee of depoliticization of the economy. And it is also right for financial policy because it is much better to reduce debt through asset sales than to tax the taxpayer. Ladies and gentlemen! I am on and on a friend of free speech and do not like to read only newspaper excerpts at the speaker's desk. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] But I took a newspaper section with me, Mr Edlinger, although I do not have 17 newspaper sections, but one for them. The color of the paper reveals that it is the "standard". In this, the really respected director of the economic editor Erik Frei has written something about the case of Deutsche Telekom, which is also mentioned in your urgent request. [[Abg. Edlinger: I quoted that!]] Let me quote three sentences. I quote Erik Frei, the highly regarded economic journalist: The Telekom walkway is seen as the waterloo of the black and blue government. But many of the causes of the lost stock market debut go back to the former government, especially on decisions made by a man who has now fully withdrawn from Austria: Ex-Kanzler Viktor Klima. Then a whole scapegoat of climate is listed. Here it goes on to say: He decided against the resistance of the ÖVP that Telekom would not withdraw from the PTA. - A misconception! He is accused of misjudgment in the staffing. [[Abg. Auer: Buenos días!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That was your policy. No calls are coming. No one's here now. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: That's all wrong with what you're producing now!]] This shows that you do not want to have a principle discussion about the future of our industry. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: They're looking very lame now! No one's here anymore!]] You think you can beat cheap daily policy little money out of it by asking questions that are at least one year old.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16518	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. He's got the floor. The clock is set to 10 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. President! I would like to make the request for the request for an early vote on the motion for a resolution.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] President. — I call Mr Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16553	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Abg. Haigermoser: They are discussing the follow-up of Cap after this speech!]] [[Renewal hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: About the fourth Klubobmann!]] My colleague, Mr Stumvoll, has once again tried to preach to us the already slightly yellowed slogan of "New Government". Let's stay with you. What does the Coalition Agreement say? What was to be heard in the opening speech of Cuisine? What else has been found in Grasser's budget speeches? – The debate was about depoliticization and a completely new industrial policy in the sense of privatisation. What strategy is right or not can be different. I am well-known to assume that the Green Group does not a prioritize any kind of privatisation. It is essential that the State, where it has interests, achieves its objectives for the benefit of its citizens through regulations or similar mechanisms. What remains or is missing is obviously the question of the sensibleness of the core shareholders, whether we can or cannot guarantee them in Austria, and is, at least, a reasonable debate on them. At the moment, nothing can be seen at all. It is also true that the Committee on Industrial Policy, which would be responsible for this, has not been present for months, and may well be a pre-taxed chairman. Let's privatize, depoliticize and so on and so on, all these exercises of the black and blue government like "New Government". Let us look at a few examples of what this is really about, because then it becomes clear what the Malheur is. The Malheur is not that anyone wants to call the friendship with colleagues Prinzhorn in principle a scapegoat – that is not the point – but it is about the fact that friendships in this area have certain consequences. No one can believe that if someone has essential functions in the foundation of President Prinzhorn that he has nothing else to do with him, he will otherwise act completely independently of these interests. That's the problem! And what is the interest of Mr. Prinzhorn? . In principle, it has a clear industrial policy line in mind and completely withdraws from the debate, namely privatization on zero, as soon as possible, at all costs. And this is the damage to the economy that is being done there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's why it doesn't matter who the friend of Princehorn is, where he sits and where he doesn't. To withdraw from this debate on the one hand and on the other hand to drive ahead of us – in the chaos, but on the other hand, we're going to go through it – is really not a happy performance. Let's come, for example, Telekom. Minister! If everything is as great as it is done here – you have also been quoted that there is no error in the management there – then I ask you why Sundt has to go now, still about this sum. . I don't want to get into this just polemic level right now. 52 billion to buy it out is not a cardboard stalk. But why does he have to go? – You have just praised the performance of the share development. I'll tell you why he has to go. It was also found here someone who can better climb with comrades Princehorn. That's the cause. That sounds so funny, but unfortunately it is true; you only have to look at the research that exists on this area. What was the case? – Ditz is blaming up to the bone to this day. All the action is blown off. How this affects the courses, we can then look at each other together immediately afterwards. It's supposed to be a new board of directors. There is no public justification for this. But to talk about it publicly is the stupidest thing you can do to a company. This flight is accompanied by Pentecost to Rome. With whom does Ditz fly to Pentecost to Rome? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: By plane!]] With whom, not with what, but these differentiations I have already given you no more. [[general hustle and bustle]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ditz flies to Rome with Heinzel. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board Ditz, who is said to act so independently in Telekom, receives a side car from the ÖIAG Supervisory Board, which, in turn, has nothing to do with Prinzhorn, but to be a mountain comrade. What's being done there? – One does not follow the enlightenment of the Holy Spirit in Rome, no, it is visited by the partner Telecom Italia to make them taste Mr. Häberli, whom the head of Telecom Italia is supposed to "swallow". What about him? – Any criterion that could have been predicted applies to: He's a friend of the so-called gentlemen, someone who made "in paper" in this case "in paper napkins". So all forecasts are being made. I am excited how the next board orders will look, I am not sure who has not yet been addressed from this industry and from the group of friends of Prinzhorn. That is the problem of this. It is not about someone having a friendship relationship, but about someone doing something in the interests of someone else who is manifestly acting to the detriment of the Republic, and that is the problem. You don't want to do that, and that's why you'd rather go from the ÖVP to the dive station. In the same way, you do it with regard to the question of why you have contributed nothing better in all those years before. But no one will let you go of this responsibility anyway. Next point: AUA. It's about Ditz again. This is announced, who belong to a replacement. How does Ditz actually get to it? – It could have been thought that Ditz – we have not had such a bad opinion of him so far – has a passable argument for this. But if you look closer, there's nothing left but that people have been ordered by the old government, in the sense of the old colour doctrine, if you want it to be as grateful as you have taken it up, and that's why you have to leave it. That is the criterion, cost it what it wants, including Golden Handshake and twenty million waste. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] Mr Finanzminister! The result of the AUA has sometimes not improved, because this planned redemption has been addressed in a diletantic style. If you have listened carefully, I have not explicitly spoken about this – and this is also true of my group’s opinion – that redundancies cannot be, in principle and economically, a happy and favourable investment. If there really is no longer any serious mistakes and all the reasons for such a meeting, then it is to be supported. But that is hardly done, and that was not so especially in the case of Deutsche Telekom. On the contrary: There is always praised by you, too. I would like to listen to how this is justified. At the AUA, one might argue, but the procedure – I can also mention another indication – was also diletantic by Ditz. We'll have to answer the question why he's doing that. What did he do? As head of the Supervisory Board, he appoints a company advisory institution, a head-hunting institute, with the search for new boards, although the Supervisory Board has not yet decided whether the old board should go. If that's not pretty slow, I don't know. All of this is publicly celebrated in all embarrassment, and at the end it cannot even prevail. That's diletantic and incompetent for me. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you understand this under "New Government", I'll "gratulate" you. You can't get out of the affair by saying that the "new government" is that you don't have anything to do with all these things anymore. I hope the friendships reach that far. Let us summarize the announcements made by this government: new industrial policy and independent staffing in the enterprises. There is relatively little left of that. The industrial policy orientation is zero, because we are going to get worse at the cheapest rate. One has the impression that the ÖIAG has been downgraded to the consolation agency. You wonder who's using this. You will still look at exactly what buyers will be in favor of this. For the Federal Forests, it was precisely what was feared that not the small forest farmer – of course not – benefited in the course of some arrondations of his terrains, but that a few large "filets" had gone cheaply across the shop table. And it will also be in the other areas. The industrial policy orientation is not recognizable and goes against zero. With regard to the independence of these posts, I can only say that the term "friendly economy" has never before experienced such a tangible charge as in this case. I do not need to continue to carry this out, because it is now embarrassingly rereadable everywhere. If the "new government" is, thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The fact that you have adopted the competence of the alleged and so-called little man is already obvious, but that you are also putting economic competence at risk in this way is a little surprising, as is the fact that the ÖVP is at diving station.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16659	I'm asking for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16674	The fact is that the whole thing will have a replay and a renunciation. [[Abg. Neudeck: Please ask for the final sentence!]] I have been very well informed that Deutsche Telekom will continue to be examined by the Court of Auditors, so there will be a review in the House, and I hope that we will not find too much cause for complaint. But if that's the case, I know whose cap it is.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16713	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kubitschek. Speaking time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16734	Mr President. Mr. Minister! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Were you in the "ZIB 3" yesterday?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The longer this government is in office, the more often one asks one the question, by which its alleged reputation for possessing economic competence can actually be justified. But I have to admit, ladies and gentlemen, in recent times a lot has really been contributed to demonstrating very clearly and very strongly what this government actually understands and what we can imagine. If we make the events of the last days and weeks of the week happen now, we can find the following: The economic policy of the FPÖ/ÖVP brand clearly means that the decision-makers in the large Austrian companies in the public are to be slandered, disavowed, and then eliminated in order to be able to eliminate them more easily afterwards. Economic competence, according to your idea, means that one first eliminates the management of the company and only then takes on the search for an appropriate successor. Economic competence also seems to mean that the quality of managers and supervisory boards is pretty much the last thing anyone is interested in. However, economic competence, ladies and gentlemen, in the government's division, means, above all, to ignore the share law, to pass the control bodies and thus to provoke a price collapse of the shares. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Economic competence, Minister Grasser – with which you have been personally addressed – seems to be setting the date for a company's stock exchange from the government bank and to wonder why this stock exchange is becoming a flop. Economic competence, Minister Grasser – even here you are personally addressed – also means to distribute negative censorships from the government bank on the performance of companies and in turn to provoke that the price situation is affected. Finally, economic competence means and at last that investors' groups are highly professional and highly sustainable. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, economic competence of the ÖVP/FPÖ brand means continuous and profound interference of policy in the management of companies and thus a relapse in times long past and the exact opposite of what you have on the lips under the motto "Private is better than State". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The beautiful words of you, Mr Grasser, can also not hide what is now really more than obvious in the whole world: The economic performance of this government is no longer to be surpassed by embarrassment. It is a relapse in the darkest times of state intervention policy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we have been seeing here for weeks is the reversing of a policy that has understood it over the last ten years, in all its peace and without pushing back large-scale government interventionism in the companies. This is really the reverse of a policy that has succeeded in placing the largest ÖIAG companies majority and very successful on the stock exchange, and it is the conversion of a policy that through predictability, through resistance and through competence has acquired the trust of investors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the end, it is also the conversion of a policy that has not set itself a short-sighted profit target, but which has been aimed at ensuring the long-term economic location. Privatization and depoliticization, ladies and gentlemen, are not something that this government has reinvented. In the context of this, only the diletantism with which this government is trying to achieve these objectives is new. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Grasser, if you do not want these words - which I can well imagine - to be true from the mouth of the opposition, if you do not want to take these words seriously, then at least you believe the forces you usually consider infallible. Minister Grasser, believe It is at least the forces of the market, because only the announcement to drop the AUA Board without a Supervisory Board decision has reduced the price on that day by 20 percent. Mr Stumvoll is not here now, but I would just like to draw your attention to what has actually happened, Mr Stumvoll, who spoke so much about the fact that the law of shares dominates the activities. Mr. Grasser, if you once again wonder why foreign investors avoid the Vienna Stock Exchange, you might not be asked to question your highly-dominated advisory agencies next time, but perhaps to change your highly-dominated ÖIAG representatives on the ÖIAG's management day, which is really the reason, because in recent days, in recent days and weeks, you have done everything you can to sell these investors. Finally, Mr Grasser, I would really like to ask you to become aware of what is going on here. You should be aware very quickly that you are not playing with your private assets here, but that it is about the assets of the Austrian population. Finally, you are responsible for what happens to these Austrian assets through dilettantism, unprofessionality and greed for power: that there is an irrevocable concealment of these assets. I ask you, Minister Grasser, to try and finally take this responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16797	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16818	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In fact, one should be really very slow to feel sorry for the Social Democrats. What since the 4th century? February on urgent requests and urgent requests from the SPÖ has always been a pipe-creper – as it is today. And what Mr Edlinger did not accomplish, the designed Clubobmann Cap has completed. It has become this urgent request a veritable abdominal area! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! With your economic and industrial policy past to make such a urgent request here, a large portion of courage or political self-denial is already required. [[Abg. Neudeck: Masochism!]] That is, as the colleague says, masochism. I do not want to quote the whole latte of newspaper articles that could be quoted, but I would just like to quote a few very short quotes, as Mr Edlinger did. "In hell's pace into the financial debacle." – By the way: In 1986, the execution Emperor called Strings; he received 5.1 million schilling for voluntary leave. You've already premeditated the execution at self-announcement. Strings, obviously not a liberal, but SPÖ presidency candidate: 5.1 million voluntary redundancies. "Ministry climate deliberately says an untruth" – in connection with the AMAG. "Amag disaster devours almost 15 billion schillings": "Sekyra and "his" Minister of Climate". But it's still going on. They have today criticized the fact that privatisation is far too fast. Earlier than you were in the government, you claimed something else. March 1997: "In Austria, much too hesitant is said to be too dissuasive, criticises Wifo expert Karl Aeginger." It calls for more competition for less efficient state enterprises. The commentators write: "The government forgets structural reforms." Or 1998: "Steyr sale: The infinite story". Peter Muzik of the "EconomicsBlatt" writes: "It's to be sure how amateury some transactions are handled in Austria. The CA then sells its shares of Steyr-Daimler-Puch quietly and secretly... – and then a few weeks later, Hannes Androsch and a German group suddenly appear to offer it much more." "Androsch and the Germans lay an egg for CA." – Socialist economic policy! Or: They criticize the appointment of the board members, the Supervisory Boards. Wednesday, 19. May 1999: "The invitation to tender of the ÖIAG Boards becomes a Farce." "EconomicsBlatt", Peter Music: "ÖIAG: The fall back to the Stone Age". "Polit packaging in ancient style Streicher and Ditz." – Your personnel policy! Or: You have concerns that 100 percent will be privatized, rightly 100 percent will be privatized. How was that when you thought you were coming to a government? ==References====External links== January 2000: "Start selling." "SPÖ and ÖVP have agreed on the widest state withdrawal from industry." "In the next four years, privatization will be speedy, with even the often conjured block-minorities... no more taboo in the core companies." - Listen, hear, hear, hear, hear, The SPÖ has abandoned the core company philosophy. The coalition negotiators of SPÖ and ÖVP would have agreed on this, it is said in the "Economic Sheet". [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They have destroyed 60 000 jobs in the nationalized industry. They've been wasting 120 billion schilling of economic assets. They did every job lost, every job destroyed with 2 million schilling. And if you're saying here today, there's going to be a payoff, I'm allowed to quote Christian Ortner from the "format." He says: "The SPÖ is now giving up, because this year's national lights are wasting 200 million for the disposal of managers." – Passing You're good at it! – "This corresponds precisely to the amount produced in the old VOEST under social democratic rule and responsibility in the mid-1980s on six normal working days of loss." There's no such thing as the devaluation of money at all. Ladies and gentlemen! In summarizing the situation in which the SPÖ is located today, I would like to conclude with a quote from Christian Ortner, who says: "The SPÖ is like an arsonist who criticizes the tactics of the fire brigade."
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16872	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e16893	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The request, although in much the same volume as last year's, is worth reading in order to capture the spirit that SPÖ still has in the economy. [[Call the SPÖ: You don't understand!]] "Because of the necessary capital," it says already in the second paragraph, "only the state can be a nuclear shareholder in the flagships of the Austrian industry at the moment." Ladies and gentlemen! This is to be a debate on the future of the ÖIAG – at your own request! – and no commemorative event for the failure of red state capitalism! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To remember: 60,000 jobs, 100 billion schilling loss, rehabilitation of the rest by throwing out the more than 50-year-olds and thus producing the greatest age unemployment of the eighties and nineties, enemy takeover of the Eastern and Central Europe Bank by Bank Austria, which was then also thrown abroad, use of Telekom, which you so often mention here, to the shock of many parts of the population, because it is not even ten years ago that one had to wait for a telephone connection in this city as long as on the Trabanten in the GDR, coupled with all the uncertainties of intervention and corruption. And despite all these conditions, you do not generate yourself, but Mr Cap goes out and delivers a cabaret number here. That's really a shame! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Mr Tancsits, with your vocabulary...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! To separate from executives and supervisory bodies of this kind is, in my opinion, the task of a responsible owner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If this separation – I come back to Mr Cap's cabaret number in a more serious matter – is compared to the bloody cleansing in North Korea, in the GDR and in other countries where your party president once kissed the ground, then this is a scandal, and I expect an excuse for this derailment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can come back to that again. It has already been quoted that investment in waste is often the best investment in the future of a company. Have you ever noticed that, unlike the management of the ÖIAG under red domination, what you have so kindly called coloring or coloring is now good for the businesses? Have you noticed that the companies mentioned in the ground not only make a sales increase but, if they are listed, also have a corresponding price gain? [[Abg. Oillingers: What's the name of the farms?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Owners have the right and the duty to provide for the appropriate management and supervisory bodies. I come to speak again to the Telekom, which is so dear to your heart, perhaps some incidents. In a construction plant in Carinthia, a consignee of the Landesdirektion suddenly appears, says: The work place is dissolved, and begins immediately with the degradation. People have to find themselves in a so-called staff pool. The newly renovated Call Center will be closed in Innsbruck; people will no longer be able to find themselves at the workplace. The apprenticeship training will be discontinued, and the training and training facilities for the company's members will be discontinued. Ladies and gentlemen! If, in this labour market situation and in the current forecasts, a management of companies starts investing in the future, such as apprenticeship training facilities, then I actually do not need to read a balance sheet anymore, then I already know that it has been abandoned to believe in the future of this company. [[Abg. Edler:... ÖBB!]] I do not understand that a party that has once called itself a working party has nothing to say about dealing with staff in such an important operation as Telekom, that Mr. Edler – thank you for calling for the call; whenever Mr. Edler calls in between, I know I will understand – has nothing to say to Riepl and how they call it to deal with employees in Austrian companies. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Edler]] [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that there are at least supervisory bodies that are still thinking about the future of employees and of these important companies. Therefore, I am sure that the path taken by government and government coalition is to create appropriate framework conditions for companies to be made fit for the market, to be able to exist here and not to be guided by political intervention and governance, is the right way. [[Abg. Riepl: The wrong way!]] – In this sense, thank you for your requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17023	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17047	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Market fit is certainly a big goal. Market fit is intended to benefit workers as much as the owner or owner, the Republic. In this regard, I do share your view, but, Mr Tancsits, what is going on under market-fits has already been one or perhaps even several of my previous speakers can clearly explain as a cleaning policy, as a display process in the ÖIAG, as a policy of the "burned earth", as "silfies and post-chachers". – I deliberately quote, you may have noticed, always headlines from either the "press" or the "standard", i.e. from newspapers that are very likely to declare themselves as the voice pipe of the market economy. This echo, this mirror and the criticism just from this corner of the market economists seem to me most appropriate in the case of ÖIAG, in the approach taken by the owner or, better said, in the approach of the wire-drawer President Prinzhorn. This is for me the mirror that needs to be kept in front of you. In the situation where you rightly say that the businesses belong to made market fit, you do exactly the opposite. Josef Urschitz: "Burned Earth." He says quite clearly once again: "The owner of course has the right to... To occupy board members according to his ideas. But whoever has owners who do so really doesn't need any more competitors." . I think there is hardly any more destructive judgment on your personnel policy, Mr President Prinzhorn, under the rule of protection of Mr Grasser, too. Mr Tancsits, I believe that the facts speak for themselves. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am concerned that, if we are already to be privatized – we have not yet gone into detail about the discussion of privatisation – it is privatized for the benefit of the owner, for the benefit of the company and especially for the benefit of the employees there. You can't make this three-tone, because who's looking through your fingers? – On the one hand, employees, because massive staff is reduced, on the other hand the owner, but above all the taxpayer and the Republic, because the revenues that can be achieved are not achieved. Mr Finanzminister, there are dates in the Government Convention. I'm just reminding you: The next tranche will be brought to the stock exchange at Telekom in 2002. Mr. Chairman of the Board Heinzel has already let you know about the media – I think it was in an interview in "format" – that he sees this as a kind of non-important assignment of orders, because he does not use the gun at the chest to hunt a company to the stock exchange, where he can never do that – I can then quote it in the original – which might be our owner. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grass]] I know you want 33 billion, but in the present situation this will not be possible. You made 13 billion in the fall. At the time, they wanted to win the 30 billion through the stock exchange – 13 billion have finally become. The outlook for 2002 is now 33 billion. What will actually come out then? Maybe 10 billion in total. And, please, what are you missing then? Then you lack the reason why you carry out this entire privatisation, namely the money for the repayment of the debt of the ÖIAG. Then you miss 13 to 18 billion. Where are you going to take them to get rid of debt? Your great title, which stands above privatisation – in addition to the commitment of ideology that private economies can do better; you can also discuss it – your big second title is debt reduction. How do you reduce debts if you don't get the proceeds? And you don't get the proceeds because you've been running a miserable personnel policy so far. How do you want to do this with these rascals now? The Telekom Supervisory Council meeting today is really a parade example of this: There's no redundancies again, although she's been propagated for three months now, I think. The proceeds are probably completely pointless because the company loses another year of time. This discussion about the personnel situation reduces the value of the companies. And this is our biggest accusation, in addition to the accusation that more or less under the Aegide Princehorn of Postschachers has turned from a black and red side into a ropeship that can be taken literally as well as in the transferred sense, where it is about bringing people from the paper industry into influential positions. You have certainly read: Häberli from Switzerland has as much idea of a Telekom company as you and I, because he can make calls. – Original quote from a newspaper. He admitted, he can make a phone call. This is his qualification for the follow-up and follow-up of Sundt. [[Abg. Oils: Here you go!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, we are so far through the ropes of Mr. Prinzhorn, which you cover. And your responsibility is an extremely political responsibility, Mr. Finanzminister, because you are the owner. And today you have once again shown us by your wonderful quote from the ÖIAG legislation that now, as it were, you can't be asked in any way that you are no longer responsible that you are no longer allowed to address this matter. – I wonder: Why? Then why does the Republic have any shares at all? You are no longer allowed to talk about it, and therefore, Mr Federal Minister, it is very important to me that we adopt a motion for a resolution and decide together to protect at least the fundamental rights of an owner. And you are very much in favour of property, and Mr Tancsits is always in favour of property. I would like to say to you: We must preserve the rights of ownership, and therefore submit the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Inform the owners, inform the owners! Tell us what it says! We like to discuss this, we don't mix further in, we only criticize you when you damage the reputation of the companies about board crews, Supervisory rochaden, and thus narrow our property. That's our starting point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17136	The motion for a resolution complies with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Nürnberger came to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17160	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Tancsits, I can of course understand that he is constantly confronted with the accusations from his own organization – I could tell him a number of names – that he should represent the interests of the employees as the Secretary-General of the ÖAAB here in this House. And he's trembling that he's being re-elected. But he also made it very clear to us that he has a "Josef-Cap syndrome". And I can only say, I can understand, because you can still go down there for ten years, you will never bring together such a good, intelligent speech like the "Sepperl" Cap. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at SPÖ.]] On behalf of the Federal Minister and Mr Trattner: More private instead of state! I quote something to you, Minister of State: 1 306 companies had to register in the first quarter, in the first three months, 2001 insolvency. 8.4 billion schilling! And do you know what the interesting thing is? The Pleiding Statistics: Seven out of ten pleas are owen by private entrepreneurs themselves. 33 percent are based on corporate errors, 27 percent on negligence and 7 percent on personal indebtedness. And where is Mr. Steiner, where is Mr. Rettberg from the Libro company? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I quote something else, a press release:... practice fierce criticism of ÖIAG policy, place persistent politicization – because you have rejected the politicization and said you have depoliticized it. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: We have too!]] I continue to quote:... practice severe criticism of personnel policy in the companies of the ÖIAG. The redemption debates in the AUA and Telekom Austria have shaken investors' confidence and given the impression of continued politicization. Above all, the statements by FP economics spokesman Thomas Prinzhorn were harmful, he said to the "standard". - Quote. You know, ladies and gentlemen, who said this? Do you know, Mr. Alt General Secretary Dr. Stummful, who said this? The current Deputy Secretary-General of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, the honourable Member Reinhold Mitterlehner, said this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Two others, because the Minister said you depoliticized. A quote from the "Economic Crown" of Saturday: "We have also taken up our office completely unpolitically. Then politics caught us." That's what he said? What do you think, Minister of State, who said this? – Alfred Heinzel, President of the ÖIAG Supervisory Board. He's been caught by politics. Another quote, and I quote it as it stands, namely in the dialect: "Then cut out the Draxler, get a shape, behind or in the forest, and he says that it's all classic anyway, just like the Draxler did." Do you know, Mr. Federal Minister, who said that? The one whom you so highly praised – and I share the praise – Hannes Androsch about the personnel policy of this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I invite you, I really invite you, just show me a single comment from a journalist in a newspaper from the past weeks or months that praises your policy in ÖIAG, which it is for good! – The opposite is the case: Everyone tells you about chaos and dilettantism. I would have liked you to have made any strategic forward-looking decisions, but no, in recent weeks and months, the ÖIAG is only in the headlines with personnel questions. And there you go very diletantic and unprofessional. What are the consequences of your policy? You can't repeat that often enough: You've just thrown people's wealth! Last year alone, ÖIAG participations have had to face a loss of value of 38 billion schilling. Similarly, the value of the OMC shares is – I quote the "Economic Sheet" of 10. March 2000 – 18 percent dropped from end of January to March 2000. If at least you'd been able to do that! But today we are going to make ourselves there, exactly on that day when the Supervisory Board President announces to the public that Bammer and Rehulka will be replaced, and the shares will fall by 20 percent, and to say that this will be in-house problems, Mr. Federal Minister, is the adoption of managers who unfortunately cannot defend themselves. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another example: Telecom sales. Mr President. I apologize for the expression, but I quote the "Economic Sheet" of 19.1.2001: "Telekom sales – very bad!" I didn't need this expression, I just quoted the "Economic Sheet". Göweil writes in the "Kurier" of 23.01.2001: Pure capital destruction, privatisation completely unsuccessful, poor price developments since sales, Zig thousands of small investors have already lost a third of their assets within a few months. I'm convinced you didn't buy Telekom shares because you probably foresaw this disaster. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have to come back to it again – "Kurier": The major problems of John D. Das "D." stands for Ditz, spokesman of the board of directors. In reality, you wanted to have other personalities, but of the truly true, experienced international managers, everyone has given you a basket, so it has become Mr Ditz. I don't know his qualification, I hope he'll do his thing well. But whether the second Executive Director you brought up is the Wunderwuzzi, I doubt, because he was not the first choice either. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am curious, however, whether you, as the owner of Dr. Ditz, will take responsibility, because what he has listed today with the appointment of Mr. Sundt, what he has announced there and there – for example, he has already given the task of finding three new managers at the AUA – is really not acceptable. But it has become a modern style to inform the other Supervisory Boards of the newspaper how to vote at the Supervisory Board meeting. So the representatives of the banks and other business professionals learn about the newspaper what Mr Ditz buys them. I therefore expect you to have the consequences, because I am convinced that Mr Ditz will probably have a large belly area. He will not find a majority in the Supervisory Board, and I am delighted to see if you will then take it to the responsibility and take it into account whether he will pay the opinion he has commissioned from the private treasure and whether you will send it to the desert without a handshake for this belly spot.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17240	Mr Gaugg, the next speaker, spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17261	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! These were quite interesting statements by Mr Nürnberger. But amazing is the collective memory wound of the SPÖ in the question of the national lights. They act as if it had worked perfectly in the nationalized industry before February 2000. There is one among you who has become the living innocence with pseudo-white tie, namely ex-minister Edlinger. Lively innocence: He goes to an actual correction to the speaker's desk and thinks he would never have intervened. And there's the still-non- and ex-Klubobmann, because if it goes on, it's probably not going to be long. He is praised by Nuremberger, and then Nürnberger praises Mr Mitterlehner – these are strange variants that open up there. You forget the pleas, you forget the many pleas and the sufferers. The losers in the arguments of the nationalists were the subcontractors and were the workers. The winners of these pleas were always the so-called and alleged managers and the top officials of SPÖ, who were then accommodated in the Chamber of Workers, at the ÖGB and in similar areas. They've always been all well cared for. What can be bad about this if the ÖIAG has reduced the debt level from 90 billion to 37 billion at the moment? What's bad about that? In your urgent request, enemy takeovers are spoken of. Just because it is foreign companies that are interested in having participations in Austria, are it hostile acquisitions? Are foreigners only good foreigners if they are beneficiaries of social assistance, and not even if good money is placed by good companies in Austria? They write that it would remove decorated and experienced supervisory councils. I do believe that Mr. Ex-Minister Staribacher has experience, but what do you have against people like Veit Sounde, Veit Worger and so on? I'm really asking you that. Because that sounds so blatant: because they have their economic contacts. And if names like strings, schools and co-fall, I wonder: Why have these gentlemen never gone into the sharp wind of the private sector? They've always been in the party headquarters' lap. Mr. Streicher has a sensational career behind him: From one finish to the other, he has migrated, from the AMAG to Steyr, to ÖIAG and so on, so always well supplied with many million schilling. Customer and market were disruptive factors. This was the policy of the past, so that even German Chancellor Klima in 1997 commissioned 73 Austrian companies to privatize. Mr Edlinger. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. He never intervened! Mr Cap has spoken about the arrogance of power. That's where I have to say: That's right. I can only say: Friendship, comrades! I now come to speak on a record. Mr Praschak was quoted on 14.3.1997 as Minister of Finance Edlinger, with the polite request to clear the board chair in the Austrian Control Bank. They would have prepared the board chair for him in the investment loan. And if he doesn't add to it – literally – there would be other alternatives. You could talk to him differently. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Incredible!]] That, Mr. Ex-Klubobmann Cap, is arrogance of power: You could talk to him differently. – These are mafiosis methods. There is one who is not willing, one like Praschak, who is supposed to turn a bone, doesn't give up in the first conversation, and then he is threatened: We can talk to you differently. – Needed with Mr Praschak No longer to talk to them, he is voluntarily divorced from life. The responsibility for this is exclusively yours and your functionaries. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The most damaging thing in this situation was: At that time one argued that one would necessarily need a third board director in the control bank. This is why we leave Mr Praschak there if he absolutely wants to, but Mr Scholten must also have a place there. Since the death of Mr Praschak, there are still two executive directors there, and I think the control bank is being run half way. That's why I'm saying: Arrogance of power – over! Measure us by the results! You always paint the devil on the wall. As the bad guy thinks, he's acting. You acknowledge with your behaviour that your chaotic policy in the nationalized industry has led to the loss of jobs by the thousands of Austrians and, ultimately, there is no healthy economy in this area. And it annoys you that successful privatizations are carried out by us. They were there: SPÖ and ÖVP agree on an extensive privatisation package. 100 percent privatization no longer taboo. Thursday, 2. January 2000. – It is an agreement that Telekom Austria, Austria, and so on can change tobacco to 100 percent in private ownership. [[Abg. Edlinger: No, wrong!]] You can change to 100 percent in private – you have agreed! And because that's being done now and you're not in it, you're playing insulted liver sausage. You can give up this position.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17321	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17383	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. Even today's urgent question proves that the Social Democrats do not take the leave of political power, because what you are criticising today in privatisation... – Mr Cap, I would be a little reluctant. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Text building block number 337!]] I am afraid, for the speeches you give here, there will soon again be a great longing for Mr Klubobmann Kostelka in the Social Democratic Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This was a surprising superficial and insidious speech today. And one thing you have certainly proved today: that you do not know very well in economic policy. Stay with cultural policy or cross-country skiing, I do not know exactly where, but do not try too often in economic policy, Mr Cap! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: At the football!]] One thing is clear: Social democracy has largely resigned here because its ideology has also resigned on these issues. That is why it has not been discussed today about economic policy and the need for privatisation policy, but only about human resources. For you, personnel questions have eventually become substitute ideology as a synonym for the preservation of power. This has shown itself again today quite clearly and clearly, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There have also been a number of points in this policy of power, where you have really taken advantage of it. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Six have applauded!]] Mr Edlinger! You have complained here about the redundancies of the ÖBB General Director Draxler. A particularly capable manager, you said to take the hat. But I'm telling you: The social-democratic trade unionists are obviously not here. Your opinion, because first of all they have agreed to the appointment of the new board of directors in the Supervisory Board and second, they have written in the relevant information to the local authorities of Vienna – signed by Willi Haberzetl; he is not quite unknown to you –: The railway union has finally ended the era of Draxler. – It’s only strange that those who have called for an end to the Draxler era for seven years now mourn it. And then they say: A martyr should by no means be born. It is to be expected, Mr Haberzettl writes, that Draxler's surroundings will reveal more stupidity in the near future. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who said that?]] Mr Edlinger! I don't want to count you on Draxler's environment, although the suspicion might appear because you've been so massive for him today. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Two have applauded!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I come from a core country of the national industry in Upper Austria. We all know that a large part of the SPÖ and its trade unions have always viewed the nationalized industry as a political loan that you, the SPÖ and its central works councilmen, were the true power factor in these companies. The loss of this political base of power is indeed what you have been doing this past year in an almost irresponsible panic towards privatisation. They have caused an irresponsible panic against privatisation and have tried to mobilise the trade union accordingly. But the population knows that the 5 billion schilling from the "consumer" argument was caused by your cooperatives that the national debacle cost the Austrian taxpayers around 110 billion schilling and in addition the loss of 50,000 jobs. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, did you not say today in this debate to your voters, to the Austrian people that the Austrian taxpayer will have to pay for Kreisky's and all of your national ministers until the beginning of this millennium? If you are honest with your voters, tell them, don't hide that, because these are the results of your national policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] VOEST- und AMAG-Debakel are all still in our best memory. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] When the AMAG was in front of the pleite in the early 1990s, 11 billion schilling were shot by the taxpayer. Three years later, when it was realized that the state could not lead them and that 1,000 jobs were lost, it was decided to sell them. Once again 1.2 billion schillings were shot, and then it was practically donated to a private owner. Today, the AMAG generates a cash flow of several hundred million schilling, and the overall group is worth around 5 billion schilling again, ladies and gentlemen! The employees who thanked God in the context of an employee's participation today are worth about 1 billion schilling. This is the story of a successful privatisation! You should spread this and tell the workers! But they're trying to panic! Not least has it been shown by the example of Bank Austria: a socially democratically dominated board of directors, a socially democratically controlled Supervisory Board. There has been further privatized, but this bank is now in foreign hands, Mr Cap. The credit institution was purchased by Bank Austria, and what is now? [[Abg. Eder: The ÖVP Vienna has demanded this! That's not to believe!]] – It no longer exists or will no longer exist in the coming months, and thousands of jobs have been lost. That's your style, that's social-democratic privatisation! This is a privatisation policy that we cannot accept, which we do not represent and which you alone have to answer, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The economic policy you have pursued at the expense of the future was not just negligent, but simply unresponsible, and it is high time that the financial rowing was torn around in this country and that again responsible economic policy was made.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17544	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17566	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Careful and professional – careful and professional will be the privatisations of this new coalition government, Federal Chancellor Schüssel has promised us. Let us take a quote from an economic captain whom you all know, because he was finally also in this Parliament, we see what the one who says about the "wary and professional" nature of this new government. The former Member of Parliament, Haselsteiner, said to "profile": "What we experience is an unfrozen possession of positions of power. After this ÖIAG decision, Mr. Prinzhorn or Mr. Grasser or Shell can never in future claim that this government would push back party influence. ... Whoever now enters the reign, these are the Blues and the Blacks – with Tarncape." This may also be the reason why Mr President Prinzhorn did not take part in this debate during the first two hours, although he does not play an essential role throughout the game. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But without Tarncap!]] "Certainly and professionally," said Mr. Schüssel. The way in which the Federal Government or Mr. Finanzminister worked, for example, in selecting the ÖIAG Supervisory Boards and hiding the traces was careful. And professionally, one can well recognize this, was the honorary of the Tender company, which as a headhunting agency has fulfilled these orders for the Minister of Finance. Why, ladies and gentlemen? – It’s interesting to track how the company Zehnder came to your order: The managing director of the company Zehender, Mr Kappel, who dements the close relationship with the FPÖ, but is co-editor of Andreas Mölzer's newspaper "Currently" and has a witness who sits in the Parliamentary Presidium, has a woman who was the assistant to the President of Parliament Princehorn and also worked with Mr Grasser. And that very staff office – just by chance, of course, understands! – the staff office of Mr Kappel has been assigned. [[Call the SPÖ:As the best bidder!]] What order for 1.8 million schilling did this office receive as a best bidder? – Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Partik-Pablé, we are talking about 'Euroteam' in the Committee of Inquiry, but I would also like to examine this task. [[Abg. Grabner: Come on!]] 1.8 million Schilling has received the company Zehnder for making a "shortlist" out of a list of 44 people who listed the company Zehnder and who were in question as possible supervisory councils. Thus, Mr Kappel, who is known to Mr Prinzhorn and Mr Grasser, has been put together with the Tender company, and then this list of 44 persons of the potential supervisory councils has been made in agreement with the ÖVP, which has not had much to report otherwise, a shortlist of 14 who remained. And from this "Shortlist" the staff consulting office or Headhunter Kappel was allowed to filter out ten people for the Supervisory Board. A "remarkable" performance for 1.8 million schilling. A remarkable achievement! Above all, the selection of these ten people should not have been very difficult, because they already knew each other before. So one only had to point to certain people and say: Mr Worger, we know him, Mr Schalle, whom we know, and so on and so on. All these persons were well known to each other, are in friendly but also economic relations with each other, serve each other as supervisory councils and do not hurt each other. – You can say that. Mrs. Pablo! Thus, the staff selection of 1.8 million schillings has taken place. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I didn't get it!]] 30 out of 44 people were deleted. That went relatively fast. These are probably the ones you didn't know. And the 14, which you knew, were left. 1.8 million Schilling for this worthwhile work for Mr. Finanzminister and Mr. Prinzhorn to identify the friends in the economy from a list and then forge to an ÖIAG Supervisory Board. This ÖIAG Supervisory Board has then continued to work worthily, and has given Mr Ditz a mandate – and I would like to give you this already – which has been part of the overall political project of this Federal Government, namely to privatize Deutsche Telekom, for example, cautiously and professionally, as this Federal Government has stated. One has known carefully and professionally that the yield of this quarter privatisation is to be between 30 and 40 billion. The Minister of Finance can now no longer remember. It is also to him, as he told me in an answer to a question, no matter what the proceeds, because that doesn't interest him. It stands for the Republic as the owner, but not to influence the ÖIAG. That's why he doesn't care whether the proceeds are 10, 9, 8 or 7 billion or the 40 billion one originally hoped for. However, Mr Ditz took this task of careful and professional privatisation very seriously and pushed what it held only to carry out the privatisation of Telekom at the most unfavourable time. He succeeded! It has been the most unfavourable time for Telekom privatisation. One had to set the lowest output rate that could only be found. 9 j – that was the lower end of the price band you agreed on after you already knew that the original expectations will not be met. This 9 j has actually been determined and hopes that at least this will lead to a positive price trend. After agreeing on the 9 j, it was clear: The proceeds from 30 to 40 billion is not to be kept. All right, we landed somewhere at 15 billion. One then deducts the 3 billion one had to pay to the Telecom Italia – that is no longer what Mr Finanzminister no longer cares about, of which he knows nothing, only the ÖIAG – and one withdraws from it the fee for the issuing bank: about 1 billion schilling. Then, according to my estimates, about 12 billion shilling is left. The Minister of Finance could not give us any estimates of what was left of the stock market. Imagine that! Ladies and gentlemen! With an estimate of between 30 and 40 billion, the Minister of Finance, who had previously hoped for some of the UMTS proceeds. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I didn't do it!]] After this has already taken place, Minister of Finance, after the UMTS licenses have gone, you have said: Well, then the privatisation of Telekom will be all the more successful. The effect was 12 billion schilling net for 25 percent of Telekom and an exchange course that washed, about which Mr. Urschitz wrote of the "Presse" – and this is not a left-wing radical newspaper – that is the sale of family silver at the price of scrap. – He is right, too, because everything was done in the run-up to the stock exchange so that as little profit could be achieved. One has also given the banks special discounts, and they have, not lazy...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17646	The final sentence, please! The speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17662	Thank you, Mr President. – They actually bought shares at the best possible price and sold them again on the first day. This is how this federal government's privatisation policy looks! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Sewings in politics are bad, but in the economy at least the same.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17701	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17722	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dilettantism, greed for power, unprofessionality – sounds Mr. Edlinger. It's him from the SPÖ propaganda roll, especially Mr. Edlinger. In a similar sense, my previous speaker, Mr Oellinger. To Mr Ollinger I must say: He says something and doesn't know what he's talking about. [[Abg. Grabner: A community!]] For example, if he knew the Telekom syndicate contract, he would bite on the tongue. [[Abg. Oillinger: Who negotiated it?]] – The Telekom Treaty, the Syndicate Treaty, which Mr Edlinger, your friend, has negotiated! [[Abg. Edlinger: Such a fool!]] And Mr Ditz, Mr Oellinger, he was right at the time, and he was welcome at the time, and he was a valuable help of fulfillment at the time. Now Mr. Edlinger cleans himself up and says: What's this manager, Mr. Ditz? Ladies and gentlemen! I too have a very shared view of some people. But what you do, Mr Edlinger, first praise your former coalition partner high up in heaven, because you need him, and then say he's not worth anything, that's just bad! [[Abg. Huber: What you do is bad!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I feel easily attracted by some of the self-appointed Telekom experts here. You know, ladies and gentlemen, there is always the question: Why is there so much Zoff on the Board of Directors? I can tell you one thing: There is probably no telecom company in Europe today where management, the board of directors is not on the test stand. Look at Germany! You just need to watch! Look at what Mr Ron Sommer needs to hear, for example. This must have been the accusation that he had overpaid the UMTS license. There were at least 600 billion, ladies and gentlemen. They come here and say: The UMTS license in Austria was donated. [[Abg. Grabner: Now!]] That's a double-bedded game. If Deutsche Telekom had paid heavily for this license, you would have said on the one hand that it had been paid over, therefore the company would be so bad today. Since this did not happen, as the Minister of Finance was in fact suffering a moderate price base, you say that the Minister of Finance is to blame. So you're turning it as you like. They just want to polemize! You don't want to discuss telecoms in a matter of fact, you just want to play here as self-appointed Telekom experts. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you one thing: Mr Edlinger! They were then, in 1997, the godfather, when the contract with the Italians was concluded in Switzerland. At that time 80 million skilling fees for the Republic of Austria have been lost! You watched, you were right, you were right at the time – out of unhindered greed. Because you and your predecessors first broke the company down, and then you had to do something quickly to clean up the budget. That's the reality! You, Mr. Finanzminister a.D., have always negated the facts together with your predecessors and your predecessors. You didn't say that this could eventually be a problem. You have not seen that you can only bring a Telekom company individually to the stock exchange, but you have concluded a contract that at least makes the further way into successful privatisation very difficult. Ladies and gentlemen! For this reason, it is high time that ÖIAG has another management in the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board today. [[Abg. Grabner: Mr Ditz!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want to have board members there that act market-oriented. We want to have supervisory councils there that are not gearboxes. Not the way you'd like it to be: Everything remains with the old, and Mr. Edlinger gives the orders from the party headquarters and says: Show them! That would be your tactic. That was your intention, my colleague. [[Abg. Edlinger: Never done!]] You can't ignore that. You'd be right. You're just hurting that's not the way it is. Other conditions have been created. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the ring sign.]] – I come to the conclusion, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We want supervisory boards that can read a balance sheet that know that the loss on the left side and the profit is on the right side.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17849	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17864	That's our credo. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] If this is carried on successfully, the ÖIAG is on a good path.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17900	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Gabriela Moserund Comrades on regular reports on the development of the ÖIAG holding. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17943	The next brief debate concerns the request made by Mr Kiss, Dr Krüger and colleagues to the Constitutional Committee for reporting on motion 98/A at 30. Date of June 2001 until 30. ==References====External links== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the current deadline request. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretarys on the floor shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e17975	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! ==References====External links== In May the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee discussed the so-called democratic package. We have highlighted the problem from all sides, of course diverging, as is the case with various positions of parties. But one thing the government coalition has registered: The opposition is the following. SPÖ and Greens thought that the time to discuss this very sensitive issue is too short for us. Well, we said, accepted, agreed, we discuss longer. Let's do nails with heads! Let us not speak for short periods of time! The result of these internal considerations between the EIA and the FPÖ is the proposal we are making today, which I am submitting, which we are discussing: Request by Mrs Kiss, Dr. Krüger and colleagues on time-limits in accordance with § 43 para. 2 in conjunction with Abs. 1 GOOD In accordance with Article 43 of the GOG, the National Council intends to decide on the Constitutional Committee as at 30. June 2001 on reporting on the motion for a resolution 98/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Ing. Peter Westenthaler and colleagues concerning a federal law which amends the Federal Constitutional Law, the National Council Election Order 1992, the Federal Presidential Election Act, the European Election Order, the Volkswehrengesetz, the Volksammungsgesetz, the Constitutional Court Act and the Administrative Court Act, until 30. ==References====External links== When we accepted the postponement under your chairmanship, Mr Kostelka, as well for the next time, we were internally clear, we had to do something. And we are doing something about this request. The debate, as I said earlier, was extremely interesting. There have been statements of speech from you, and I told you at that time, Mr Kostelka, that you are a great theorist far from any practice, would only argue after the letter of the relevant legal provisions, and you lack the sensitivity to what a mayor, for example, would bring in in practice. At that time I also attested to Mr Schieder, who was the city councillor in Vienna at the time, had taken care of the problem. And I think we're doing well to keep talking about it ourselves. And if referees are practitioners, at least according to my understanding in the SPÖ of the makers, the boss, the boss, it is not cast builder. And it's Häupl, who took place on 27 July. April of this year, on the occasion of his government statement in the Vienna Landtag, said: The right to vote will be reformed. Therefore, there will be an option of 16 years of age, the choice of letters and a right of election for foreigners at the district level. Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, but also from the Greens! We now offer you the opportunity to discuss this topic in a very serious way, at a time of one year. In secret, I have the hope, Mr Kostelka, that you will be transferred to the public prosecutor's office and that another will chair the Constitutional Committee, at least SPÖ-internally, that there will be another momentum in it, that not so much emphasis will be placed and that more will come into the debate on Drive and Pfiff. So we have once fulfilled the timings that have been the desire of the opposition. We also have an ally with what Häupl says a few hundred meters further in the city hall in Vienna. For if he is the boss, he will be man enough, and the group of the SPÖ national councillors who come from Vienna is big enough and strong and numerous enough to bring the pressure of the state party lord and mayor of Vienna into this assembly of the National Council that the letter election is coming. And this choice of letters, Mr Kostelka – I told you – is a criterion that brings us a progress in democracy policy. Letter election from our point of view, from the point of view of the ÖVP, is quite simply a need for democracy policy today. There will be no way forward. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Ministry of the Interior has also reviewed this draft in principle, rethinked it and, as I believe, has taken account of this new draft of those intentions which we have already set out in the debate in the Subcommittee. It will – and this is the most important message – finally achieve what we all want with the election of letters: No citizen in this country, no Austrian, no Austrian, no Viennese, colleague Kostelka, and no Viennese is to be excluded from the election to represent the municipal council, from a country or federal election. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: No Burgenländerin either!]] We only reach this goal with the choice of letters. As a government coalition, I, as a representative of the ÖVP, we will not be looser to implement this objective with your consideration. At the same time, we have guaranteed that the principles of a secret and personal right to vote will be implemented thanks to an affidavit – this is also evident in the documents. The complicated right to vote abroad could not be met. In addition, a change to the first draft would have to be made to the electoral card at the appropriate local election authority no later than the second day following the election day until 12 noon. This means, therefore, that: With the new rule of a letter election, the electoral procedure is undoubtedly simplified, accelerated, in the sense of the citizens, better designed in the sense of the voters. I wonder what is against speeding up this individual citizen's right to vote, making it better for all people to have access to the right to vote, which is a matter of course in democracy. I wonder what the SPÖ has up to now prevented this choice of letters from giving its consent. And above all, I wonder what will come of arguments in the course of the next year's debate. You, Mr Kostelka, will be able to track it as a popular lawyer at least in the media, newspapers, magazines, radio and television, as we discuss internally. But we are also willing to conduct the personal dispute with you. So you will be able to watch it from the gallery – I think without She will do better – so this choice of letters is a subject that we pursue consistently and stubbornly. If the SPÖ has so far struggled, I believe that it is missing, in our view, the appropriate gripping arguments. Arguments, as we heard in the Subcommittee, have said: Well, there are other considerations, in connection with the reduction of the electoral age. – I wonder: What does a reduction in the electoral age have to do with the right to vote in letter? They have picked up various things, as well as made a lot of them so as not to have to answer our open questions, which are obvious. And if I wonder what the SPÖ is still preventing from saying yes to the election of letters, then I believe that pretty slowly those cohorts, who are still firmly opposed to the election of letters in the SPÖ, will continue to crumble. If Häupl presents the topic, if in his government statement in Vienna's Landtag in April, Häupl said yes to the letter election, then I believe that the SPÖ should also be put on record. In any case, we will do everything we can in this Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee to make the SPÖ work. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenitsch.]] If we put pressure on letter choices, then of course also with another thought, because we practitioners want to improve something. In this House there are a large number of mayors, vice-bourgeois, i.e. officials who, in elections – whether they are elections to the municipal representation, to the state day or to the federal level – have to do with the resolution of the election itself every day, who know how difficult it is to implement some of the provisions in practice, who know how difficult it is to reduce bedridden people, sick people often, under the most unworthy conditions, the yes to this election and ultimately the "crucerl". We want to make it better, and with the choice of letters we make it better! And with this request for a deadline, this path can also be pursued. One final thought: A year of commitment seems to us to be a fair deadline. For example, a year of time-limitation will allow for a very, very intensive consultation from the coming autumn, but one year of time-limitation will also bring about a rethinking, especially in the SPÖ. We know that you know, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ that there are no means of decision-making on a simple legal basis on this bill. So we need you! With the request for a deadline, Mr Kostelka, we are prepared to discuss this issue, at a fair level, where arguments and counter-arguments are put in place, but where one should be clear in the strictest sense: [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] The choice of letters is a political need for democracy. That should also be seen by the SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18045	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. Mr Kostelka has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18069	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kiss, you have made it easy for me to say goodbye to some of your remarks, but I would nevertheless like to address your arguments because with this request you have put an act of reason and an act of realism. You have given the impression here that your own request in the Subcommittee, which we are now giving a year more time to discuss only the choice of letters. But in this context I must point out to you that we are all over all political groups on the 20th century. Last October, we agreed on a package of democracy which contained the reduction of the electoral age, the election of letters, the mandatory referendum in popular desire, the strengthening of the right of personality elections, the Auslandsösterreicher-Wahlrecht, the right of foreigners to vote and eight other points. They ask why we want to refresh the electoral age with the right to vote. The answer is very simple: Because, first of all, both of these are voting rights, Mr President, and secondly, because it is constitutional, but also politically, highly unwise to intervene twice in the same Article 26 of our Federal Constitution and to change things that belong to one another. We have understood that a common package is tied up in which you recognize yourself, but in which we also recognise ourselves. We were and are ready to talk about the choice of letters, but we also want to talk about the electoral age and the right to vote for personality, about the right of minority to set up an investigation committee, but also about things like the Ambassador-Hearing. Ladies and gentlemen! The right of choice of letter must be discussed, and my group has become aware of this, but democracy does not end with the election of letters, but there are other essential steps to be taken. But what I must reject in this context is that we have walled from the SPÖ. ==References====External links== October reached agreement on this list of topics, but we then had to note with amazement that you obviously addressed the media in the absence of other issues in your club clause in January: A deadline is now being set. I immediately sent my counterparts to the Constitutional Committee an offer of a total of ten committee dates, but I had to note regretfully that the first meeting did not take place in February, did not take place in March, but only did it on 16 March. ==References== And at the end of this trial, on 16 June. May we were not even able to agree on the next date! – So much about your commitment to democracy, Mr Kiss. At this speed, a period of one year will not be enough, and I would therefore urge you to draw up a negotiating plan before the end of this part-session in autumn, in which we will work out these issues – the important issues: important topics for you, but also for us – and look for common solutions. One last word. Mr Kiss! All of this, however, also needs a different climate and a different culture of constitution and conversation. We often have the impression that you don't want to talk at all – a suspicion that can and must, if it takes a total of four and a half months to make an appointment with you, even though we have offered a wealth of appointments. That is why, on behalf of my group, I would like to make one more offer: If you want democracy, you can also dare it – not least by accepting conversations!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18141	As the next speaker, Mr Krüger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18163	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It corresponds to an old wisdom of negotiation that an agreement is all the more difficult to achieve, the more issues to deal with. In the democratic package, as my previous speaker rightly pointed out, it is not only about the questions of the election of letters, not only about the questions of the change of the Constitutional Court law, about the questions of change – possibly towards the right of initiative – of the People's Procuratorate, but also about other questions. That's not a question at all. But the more I overload the negotiations on new topics, the less likely it is to be to reach an agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! We are not talking about majority relations or a simple majority, but we are deeply in constitutional law, in which a two-thirds majority is now asked and also required. I would now like to draw a comparison between the nature and quality of the speeches of my two previous speakers, because I believe that the differences between government and government have come to light. Mr Kiss rightly pointed out: If a matter is reasonable to regulate and there is no real objection to what is the case with the choice of letters, then one cannot refuse to consent to any junkims. That's "rerule"! On the other hand, "old governance" means: I am of your opinion, I fully agree with your plan, but I would like to say something for myself. I would like your consent to the subject of c, d and e, then I would also give you the consent to a, although I would give it to you anyway, because I am your opinion. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! These times of packing, packing and mutual calculation are over once and for all! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But if my colleague Kiss in connection with the divorced Klubobmann Kostelka says that he believes that now a practitioner is doing better to carry out the task for the SPÖ, then I cannot entirely follow this optimism. I do not believe that something better is going to be done here – I do not mean that this is something that I do not mind – and I would also like to use this opportunity to thank Mr Klubobmann Kostelka for his objective negotiation in the Committee. That's not a question at all. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] But I also believe - and I say that by no means with an ironic side-taste - that his departure from the Social Democratic Group into the People's Procuratorate will tear a strong gap within the SPÖ Group. I do not want to finish the other colleagues, but I have met Mr Kostelka as a very profound expert in the Austrian federal constitution and I am excited who will try to slip into his very large shoes by the SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! I can now say something about the content, about the choice of letters. If Mr Kiss points out here that it is sufficient for the letter to arrive with the electoral paper two days after the election, I believe that this should only be possible under the limit that it is objectively recognizable and proven – and not with an affidavit, as it is clearly thought – that the vote was actually given before the end of the last electoral venue. For me, it would not be acceptable to see it as valid if someone would throw the envelope in the box in such a timely manner the next day after Sunday, that it would arrive at the Electoral Authority on Tuesday at 12 o'clock. I do not think that can be in the interests of the Austrian Constitutional Officer. This would completely disband the immediacy of a vote, which has already been partially waived, and I am of course in favour of the election of letters, because we know from many discussions, especially with the Austrians abroad, that the bureaucratic obstacles were so high that they finally led to the fact that about 20 percent of these votes were invalid. That's what it's all about by choosing a letter.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18232	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18253	Mr President. High house! I would like to say a few words about the democratic package and the statements made by my two previous speakers. Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! I am pleased that – I took this from his speech – he obviously supports our request. I therefore take the view that his group is still ready to speak on the subject of the choice of letters. I would like to welcome this in principle, and I am pleased about it. But a word about the allegation you have made of the refusal to talk, which is alleged to be carried out by our side. I do not want to let that happen because I have always been looking for the conversation and I have finally found it if it was also sought on the other side. But I have to say, you can also make offers that are simply not feasible. There is also that. – That only on the ten dates you have mentioned, Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka. On the issue of the choice of letter. – The political maturity of a state can be measured by how it is made possible for voters or is also simplified to take part in a election. The general right to vote is a core principle of democracy. One must not only grant voters this right of vote, but also ensure the effective way to participate. The choice of letters facilitates this participation, and that is, as much as I know, quite undisputed. The ÖVP is very persistent on this subject. Since the beginning of the 1960s – the first time in 1963 – ÖVP MEPs have made a request in this regard, because the issue is important to us because we want to make it easier for voters to take part in the election and give them the opportunity to do so. In principle, we hope that the opposition parties will finally also be able to make contentions. If, on democratic matters, one admits that further development is important and possible, then one does not pass by the issue of the election of letters as the first and simplest step. The choice of letters meets the changed living conditions of the population, increased mobility, without being revolutionary. There are also positive experiences regarding the choice of letters, for example the Chamber of Workers' Elections in Tyrol. There, the voter participation increased from earlier 26 percent to ultimately 60 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what I call a clear case-by-case argument for a choice of letters. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also clearly a signal from voters that they want this choice of letter. Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! You will no longer be present, and I therefore call on your colleagues in the political groups to take a small and very tried-and-tested step of developing the rules of democracy in this country together with the government parties, to negotiate the present proposal together with us in autumn and to give the election of letter after almost 40 years, perhaps at last, to the hoped-for breakthrough.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18308	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18329	Mr President. High house! The time-limit and the time-limit for extension will be set under the heading "Democracy Package". Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer! I think that this term "democracy package" is a little too high for a request for a letter election. It's not even a package! If you have said, please don't ask Junktims, then my opposite question: Why not? If there are a whole range of amendments, needs and concerns, then it is only reasonable that various interests and concerns be negotiated together, and hopefully something emerges from what can be called a "democracy package" with fug and law, and then this cannot and must not be limited to the issue of the choice of letter. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Even if we remain on the subject of voting rights – we have told you that in the previous committee deliberations – it would be the least to come to at least a package that we will then discuss the corrective needs within the area of voting rights in its entirety. If we are talking about how we can improve the possibility of taking part in the election for people who, for some reason, are restricted in their mobility or who would have to overcome the wide distances, then from our point of view, it is absolutely essential to include in the negotiations measures to eliminate screaming deficits that have our right to vote. This is, for example, the granting of at least municipal voting rights for people who have no Austrian passport and no EU passport, who have been living here for many years, work and have family, but not even at the district level, who can exercise their right to vote at the municipal level. That's a lousy thing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we talk about advanced opportunities for a democratic participation, it will only be possible, from a green point of view – I hope, from a social democratic point of view – if the right to vote is improved and corrected as a whole. But in order to be able to speak of a genuine democratic package, we also need to talk about the mechanisms in connection with how the instruments of direct democracy are dealt with. I keep remembering the popular desires that have been so successful – women’s people’s desires, genetic engineering people’s desires, animal welfare people’s desires – and not a single point has been implemented. I invite you again and again: Let us show the population that we are serious about direct democracy! Let us take a point of this great and successful popular desire quickly and seriously in negotiation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But just as – and I only mention the words here – we need to talk about the parliamentary control mechanisms, about the right to set up committee of inquiry. We need to talk about the mass procedures – we have started to have discussions in this area, but we have not actually gone on. We need to talk about legal protection at the level of the federal states. Administrative jurisdiction has long been in need of reform and needs to be improved and strengthened. And finally, we need to talk about a meaningful reorganisation of the competences in the state: There are materials that are no longer meaningful at the national level – keyword: Animal welfare, or the energy sector; we discussed this at an early stage. But there may be other skills that one can soak up to a lower level. All of this would belong to such a democratic package. The way we come to do this is a much more suffocated and wounded one: first of all, the government party's proposal for a deadline; now that one realizes that it will not be possible to sell only the letter election as a democratic package, the withdrawal takes place. But if, for your part, it is serious that we are now entering into negotiations, then we should be right.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18401	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request submitted to the Constitutional Committee for reporting on motion 98/A as at 30. Date of June 2001 until 30. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. 16. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (566 of the Supplements): Notification of the Republic Austria of amendments to the Annexes to the European Agreement on Social Security and the Additional Agreement on the Implementation of the Agreement (Supplementary Agreement for the Application of the Convention, respectively. Accord complémentaire pour l'application de la Convention) (665 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18441	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. I ask you to take the seats. There are no words. There was no oral reporting. We shall therefore vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 566 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. 17. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (587 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Civil Fund Act 1996 and the Federal Finance Act 2001 (637 of the Supplements) 18. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (585 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the instructions on the exploitation of animal origin in animal body recycling establishments (animal use) (638 of the supplements) 19. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (586 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the meat investigation law (639 of the supplements) 20. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (584 of the Supplements): Federal law amending the animal meal law (640 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18526	We now come to points 17 to 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Heindl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. [[Abg. Dr Heindl: (on the way to the speaker's desk) That is enough, Mr President.]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18561	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! When I opened the meeting of the Financial Committee last week, I was surprised at the presence of three members of the government. [[Federal Minister Mag. Main: (on the Federal Minister Molterer, present on the government bank and pointing at himself) We are two!]] – Three members of the government were there last week, so I emphasize that; today it is two, perhaps the third is still coming. – We were all very happy because we thought there would be an objective discussion. But what came out, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately God was not really informative, but many questions – many important questions – have remained unanswered. We would have liked to have - I say this on behalf of my group - taken a unanimous decision on these four important materials, because this would have been important for the farmers who were suffering as well as for the insured consumers. The following is the case: Questions, hardly an answer, no answer at all. Important statements were actually ignored. The most important thing for me – I tell you that, gentlemen on the government bank – was that it turned out: Once again, there was no review, once again the stakeholders, namely municipalities and cities, were not questioned. I'm really wondering: How does a parliamentarian feel here in this house who represents either mayor or is himself mayor? These institutions are particularly affected. In particular, there was no answer to the questions: What does that look like? What role does the triggered mechanism play? Is the law now being passed, or is it waiting for the decision to be taken? What do the countries say about this decision? – There were no correct answers. [[Abg. Böhacker: The consent of the countries is available! The countries have agreed!]] Gentlemen! Never, as long as I'm Obmann, I've got correct answers to that. This time I – I’ve done this – went into the matter, and it’s surprising: The meeting of the Financial Committee was held on 29 February. On 31 December the countries received letters from Ministers Grasser, Head and Molterer, which point out that they should be given a quick opinion on these proposed texts and novels, and that the request for negotiations in the consultation body should be withdrawn. I called – it took a long time for me to get one or the other to the device –: There's nothing to decide until the hour. So what Mr. Haider has sent out as chairman of the national conference is true: As regards the distribution of BSE follow-up costs, there is no uniform view by the countries, according to Haider. According to Haider, Upper Austria and Salzburg have their No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consultation mechanism initiated. On Friday, a fax was received from the head of state Haider, in which he writes: Ladies and gentlemen! The letter of Federal Minister Grasser, Molterer and Head of State on the financing of the BSE follow-up costs was delivered on 29 May. With a view to a uniform procedure on this issue, I should like to ask for urgent opinion on the proposals submitted, with prior priority being given to the course of the transitional arrangements. - Quote. I don't want to go into it any further now. My second question was: Please, when do you decide? When do the national finance providers, the national leaders, decide whether or not a grant will come from the countries? Answer: We'll meet next time on 13. June, next week, at the national financial conference. – Whether it is decided in this way or not, I have not been able to learn from the relevant national financial advisers from the telephone calls I have conducted. My proposal, ladies and gentlemen from the government parties – sometimes a proposal from a member of the opposition – is good: ==References== The decisive meeting of national financial experts will take place on June. We reject the draft laws except the draft to the animal meal law, complying with the 13th. We will perhaps be able to agree on a common procedure if we have put forward our factual arguments on June 1st. So, please, without review, for a Ho-ruck procedure will be You don't get our consent! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18616	The next speaker was Mr Böhacker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18638	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Heindl, I understood differently the information provided by the two ministers and also by Mr Finz's Secretary of State in the Committee, in the direction that all the federal states can in principle imagine taking part in this package of measures, with one exception – and above that will be on 13 March. It was traded in June. Therefore, from my point of view, it has been fully informed. So I do not see this as you, Mr Heindl, have explained that this would not have been the case. First of all, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The four government documents under negotiation are a package of measures to address the BSE crisis in Austria: Provision will be made for financing the BSE follow-up costs. The ban on animal feed will be extended until there is a definitive regime at EU level. Adjustments are made to the prohibition of the production of animal feed from offal. Finally, in certain areas, inconsistencies for official veterinarians are created, so that they are not allowed to carry out meat investigations in all cases. From my point of view, these templates are quite a round matter. I regret that the S & D Group cannot give its approval to one of these four government documents, because these proposals are in themselves a rounded package and it is really high time that everyone took a fair part in the financing of these BSE follow-up costs. One thing has to be said: Austria has no BSE scandal! Unfortunately, however, we have a BSE crisis. The facts speak a clear language: In the United Kingdom, more than 180 000 BSE cases have been reported, in the Federal Republic of Germany 65 cases of about 15 million bovine animals, and in Switzerland – similar to Austria from the structure of their agriculture – 36 cases. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] 36, was my last information. [[Abg. Auer: 370 it was!]] 370! – I would like to take note of this correction. There are also reasons why this is so. Despite 80 000 investigations carried out, Austria alone has no BSE case. Austria is therefore BSE-free. I would therefore hope – I appeal to the media in this sense – that in the report on this matter, the fact that there is no BSE case in Austria will finally find the appropriate rainfall. But this fact must not make us careless, because the threats around us are still present. And we must be grateful to our farmers that, despite a lack of EU agricultural policy, despite the statement of the German Chancellor Schröder, it is not a state to do with this "Schrebergarten-Agriculture" that, despite globalisation, it has not left the path of virtue despite difficult conditions under which our farmers have to produce. We should be very grateful to our farmers, especially as consumers! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We should also think about it. It really can't be like this or become a system or stay that milk is cheaper than mineral water, that butter is cheaper than a quality shoe cream, and it must not be so that of any schilling that is spent on food, only 8 growlings stay with the farmer. There has to be a rethinking, and we have to ask ourselves the question over and over again: What are healthy foods worth us? Our farmers simply need fair prices for their excellent products. Our farmers don't need alms, they don't need subsidies, they need a service fee for their activities, including for the maintenance and maintenance of the Austrian cultural landscape. Austria has a great opportunity through this BSE crisis – the wine scandal has shown it – to really become a gourmet shop in Europe when it is consistently being worked on here!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18725	The just-readed amendment tabled by Mr Böhacker, Dr. Stumbling and colleagues are sufficiently supported and involved in the negotiations. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18759	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The current legislative amendments are the provisional last chapter of the BSE crisis's "handling" or "non-proliferation". "Management" must be highlighted here, because this is in itself a European question, and it must also be solved at European level. I believe that from an Austrian point of view, it would be urgently necessary to continue to force the cause research in the field of BSE and to move forward at European level, because only if we really know about the causes can we continue to develop a policy that not only causes costs but also ensures disposal opportunities for animal meal that are cost-effective. [[Abg. Haigermoser:... that you have called Austria a pig stable!]] In this context, I would like to take up the criticism made by Mr Heindl in the context of these proposals, in part, it is obvious that there are some rapid shots, rapid shots, Mr Bundesminister's head, which I cannot fully understand, because they come from your area. One thing is undisputed, and we will definitely vote for it: that the deadline is 30. It is suspended on 1 June 2001 for the prohibition on the feeding of animal meal. That's clear. In this regard, I believe we have national consensus. This is a prerequisite so that we can operate quality assurance in Austria. Another point is the amendment of the Civil Fund Act. Ladies and gentlemen! The present proposal has now received an amendment, I have taken note of it with interest. I think that the procedural shortcomings, Mr Federal Minister, are still evident; I have already said that in committee. I think it would have been important to provide a detailed list of the costs incurred so far. You just said what happened to the animal meal, but you did not specified the cost positions, not list the proportions used for each disposal step and necessary measures. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also tried to discuss a proposal from the Greens in the Committee, namely whether we should not provide for BSE quality control charges on feed. You will say: This is only true of agriculture. . I think that is not quite right insofar as such a tax on feed processed purely industrially gives the chance that it will also provide positive support for circular feeding and feed production in agricultural holdings. This is a proposal that we have put to the debate. We have not met with this in mind. I think we should think about it in the long term. What is to be said positively and, from our point of view, is the increase in the number of controls on feed. They have already announced this in the Committee. This is certainly a necessary and correct step. Finally, however, an open funding amount of 250 million Schilling will remain for 2002, which will be partially covered by the use of the carcasses or by meat inspection fees, as far as I am pursuing. In this respect too, I have lost the more precise cost-development estimate in the proposal for a law. In the sense of transparency, Mr Federal Minister, this would be desirable and necessary. We have also argued that the handling of costs through the position from the quality improvement measures of your budget in the agricultural sector would not be in question for us. I have now heard that the amendment would remove the article in question. I take note of this with goodwill. Mr. Federal Minister. With reference to the execution instructions relating to animal body exploitation in the relevant institutions, we consider it very worrying that exceptions from the obligation of departure are transferred to the head of state. You do not give any detailed descriptions of which exceptions can be granted, you give here a general clause. I also think that this is a problem for Austrian-wide uniform quality assurance. They have not subject these drafts, as has been said, to any assessment process – which has been criticised several times by the federal states, and that is not legal – and the question of cost-effective pricing by means of a cost-balancing system is not modelled in this concept. It's unclear what you mean by that. For if you mean a cost-effective pricing scheme, which also includes the disposal of animal meal, then we do not need to finance animal meal management from the disaster fund either. So here the cat bites in the tail. It is not clear what you mean, Minister of State. In the field of the meat investigation law, we believe that there are no uniform control plans. They are talking about flexibilization in the control area in favour of small businesses, but we have no guarantee that every head of state will take this into account the same as you think. Again, there is only one general clause that the head of state can fix control plans according to the need. I do not think that is true in view of our quality debate. I think it would also be necessary to ensure a federal framework for controls and, at the same time, to clarify the areas in which the head of state can distance himself from it. One point which I do not think is irrelevant from the point of view of agriculture is the question of TBC freedom, which is also clarified in this meat investigation law novelle, namely that calves of domestic slaughters should in future also be subject to veterinary control, of which about 6,000 calves are affected per year. I think it would have been necessary to give the farmers who came to the Handkuss with a cost-taking of the federal government a corresponding signal effect, because the reporting of such domestic slaughters is not quite easy. We both know that. If an additional cost burden is incurred for the farm, there is not necessarily a great interest in reporting it and carrying it out as you intend. So it would have been a good idea to cover these costs by public authorities, because on the other hand, as I remember, we discussed this in the committee, we saved some 30 million schillings. Therefore, it would have been possible to cover the costs in this area of slaughter. Due to the above shortcomings, especially in the field of animal body recovery instructions and in the meat investigation law, we cannot accept these templates. We see the animal meal law as a necessary measure, and in the Civil Fund Act, we believe that, in this amended version, it is one of the possible compromises that we will agree to in the interests of the safety of Austrian meat quality and also of safety in the beef markets, despite many shortcomings.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18799	The next speaker was Mr Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18820	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heindl's remarks were a little interesting. So far, there has also been massive criticism on this side that in solving the BSE problem, nothing has gone on that one has failed to do this and that. [[towards SPÖ]] The Federal Ministers said that there was a need for action here. Ladies and gentlemen! Now there is an agreement, and I expressly thank the two Federal Ministers for the government's support for this agreement. But now this page explains to us, no, now it went too fast, you can't agree now, because there is still some sort of clarification to be made. Ladies and gentlemen! Obviously, for this reason, the SPÖ's financial spokesperson was sent out as the first speaker in this debate, so that the agricultural stakeholders in the SPÖ could do something easier to scratch the curve. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is also said, Mr Pirklhuber: Yes, the cause of research is a European question. It would be important to operate it – that is undisputed – but it is also a European question, because how do the Austrian farmers and consumers, the trade, the meat ranchers, get out of a soup for which we cannot do anything in our country? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And how is the Austrian taxpayer finally added, ladies and gentlemen? In Austria where excellent quality is produced, where hygienic standards are respected, where regulations are put in place, which have ultimately benefited us, because the feeding of animal meal to ruminants has been prohibited since 1990, because many European states could take an example in the removal of carcasses, in the production of animal meal, which was characterised by genuine caution. However, it has nothing to do with a European agricultural policy that BSE has acted so strongly in this area, because I remember that Switzerland is not with the European Union. It has a structure similar to Austria, however, with regard to the size of the country, it has a multiple compared to what unfortunately Germany also has to show in BSE cases – every case is too much. We could be proud of ourselves and should celebrate almost a anniversary: 85 000 BSE tests in Austria – and thank God no one case! Is that not evidence of a careful agricultural policy? Is this not evidenced by a responsible agricultural policy by the Minister responsible, the Minister of Health, but also by the Austrian farmers and the farms working in this area, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am surprised that this page cannot be accepted today, because it is also results from the past. [[towards SPÖ]] That's where you were in the government! Rejoice with us, ladies and gentlemen, and do not suddenly act as if it were none of your business. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Until a year ago, you were proud of it. [[Abg. Huber: That's what the right one is talking about!]] Dear colleague Bauer! Their statements on the agricultural policy are boundless. They are known, but unfortunately not viable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In today's press, a young lady who studies veterinary medicine writes: Whoever buys cheap, buys expensive. – To do a good business, to get something cheap, everyone is happy. But would you not become suspicious if something was suddenly sold completely below its value, for example, a car at a fraction of the list price? Everyone would be careful to say: No, I'd like to have that tested, I'd rather go to a specialist dealer. Only in the case of products which are offered as locks in the food trade, in wholesale, is it not asked what is behind which production, whether or not it has been managed with care, has been produced in a sustainable manner. No, it's important, it's not supposed to cost anything or very little. There is no difficulty in driving across the border, where there are no hygienic standards, no regulations. Important is: Cheap buy! That's the decisive thing. And woe when a cup of yogurt gets more expensive or even the milk costs 8 s. This is not acceptable to a consumer! Ladies and gentlemen! You should be glad that there is such an Austrian quality. Support such production! We welcome the fact that there is such a guarantee for Austrian food! I am therefore also saying: If we welcome the fact that today's decision-making in various areas ensures funding, we are pleased to see that rules that are viable are made! For it is crucial that there is a guarantee for consumers that agriculture can rely on the future production of feed that has been subject to poor quality criteria. And we are pleased that, in the end, it has succeeded in finding a fair distribution of costs between the federal government, countries, consumers and farmers! I am also grateful that it is possible to obtain the appropriate funds from the disaster fund. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also remarkable how the cost of disposal has been reduced, from originally around 3 000 s per tonne to 1,260 p.a. today. And if it could succeed in energetically using these materials even better – in the succession chain almost – then there would have to be an approval once again. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hornek]] The expert of the Freedom Party, and I am pleased to say this, has clearly stated in the Financial Committee that Austria will remain BSE-free on the basis of the forward-looking agricultural policy, on the basis of the structure, and we can hope that it will remain. Therefore, we do not have a BSE crisis in the real sense in Austria, but we had a crisis of media coverage, and sometimes I felt that ladies and gentlemen – I expressly say the impression – as if some colleagues in one group or another could hardly expect such a case to occur in Austria. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That's it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Bauer-being, the activity in agriculture – and we should know that – is an attitude to life, but it is also a profession, and ultimately every farmer has to try to achieve something. And there are two ways when he constantly writes losses: either produce cheaply or stop. Cheap production means mass animal husbandry, animal meal feeding and so on. Let us stay with the careful Austrian agricultural policy – in the interests of all of us in our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18918	Mr Gradwelt has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e18939	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Großruck, only the producers alone would not do it, but agriculture also needs such people as you and me, namely consumers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it should be our main task to ensure that the safety of our products – including our, your colleague, Grossruck, including mine as a consumer – is so great that we do not have to worry at all and do not need to discuss them at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Auer! You mentioned in your introduction that the SPÖ has nominated Mr Heindl here as the first speaker to the speaker's desk. That's right. He is the chairman of the committee in the financial committee and, as such, I think he is calling on the Committee on Budgets to debate and initiate discussions here in the House. Mr Auer! It was not really the intention of the opposition groups to treat this package together in the financial committee, but it was rather an idea of the government groups which we have welcomed, because, contrary to the all-time repeated claims that we are constantly pursuing fundamental opposition policy, we are interested in solutions. And that's proof. [[Abg. Auer: Then why do you not agree?]] I will explain to you and explain why not, Mr Auer. Another point: You spoke of the 'polluter pays' principle, Mr Auer. Now I'm wondering, What are the causes of the present regulation actually involved? Where do these things come from? Where does the animal meal come from that was fed? Not in Austria! But where is this regulation? I don't see them. The contaminants will not be asked to the cash register until now. However, this is a demand that comes from us and which would also be supported by you. Those who have caused this should now also be asked to the cash register to bear the follow-up costs and to take the burdens from the well-producing farmers, Mr Hornek. [[Abg. Hornek: Tell the Lord Blair!]] That's why it went. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Auer: Tell Blair, your party friend!]] We have – and I agree with you, Mr Auer – thank God for not having BSE cases in Austria, and I hope we will not have one in the future. I rely on farmers to know how to treat their animals, how to feed them, so that they can remain the same. But I'm not supposed to be – even if you didn't talk to me personally, I think you meant the two opposition fractions – that we wanted to see such a case. [[Abg. Auer: I didn't say that!]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Read the Minutes! I don't suppose you meant colleagues like Großruck or stupid with that. You didn't call me by name, but since we've known each other for a long time, we also understand the little things between the words. [[Abg. Auer: I didn't say that!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One last point, and hence, to explain why our attitude is as it is, is that we cannot accept this package in three points and call for referral back to the Financial Committee: Mr Auer, you said that funding was guaranteed. By what? – At the financial committee meeting on 29 October. In May, I asked the Minister of State, as it was with the consent of the countries, because already on 2 May. In May, at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, we had an APA broadcast on the table by Mr. President of the national conference, in which he announced that the countries in this matter would call upon the consultation mechanism. We have discussed this in the general debate, and the Minister of State has given me an answer: We'll clear it up. At the Financial Committee meeting on 29 October. May was the answer to this question: All of this has already been clarified, and the countries will co-finance it. Now we hear from the federal states that this consultation mechanism has actually been called and that the federal states are not prepared to finance the part that they have to do. And you, ladies and gentlemen, today – and you, as mayor, too, want to make a decision here in the House without the fact that those who are supposed to pay with them would have at some point also announced that they want it. That's where I ask you: Where is the financing secured if the countries do not co-finance? [[Abg. That's what they're going to do.]] Good. We will see, but so far this question has not been clarified. [[Abg. Böhacker: Waiting and drinking tea!]] I would therefore think that we should refer this back to the Financial Committee and treat it there again. But there are also some other points in this law, which are not quite correct in technical terms. Mr. Federal Minister. You mentioned at the Committee meeting that you want to eliminate the partiality of the veterinarians, but only the official veterinarians are mentioned in the law. The practicers are not quoted, i.e. practitioners can continue to carry out meat examinations under this meat investigation law, even if they concern their customers. This is an inequality, so I should like to make the following request on this point: [[Quoted print version removed]] Furthermore, one of my previous speakers, Mr Böhacker, said that the fundamental change should actually take place in the agricultural policy. I give you the right to do so, my colleague. If we changed agricultural policy, we would not have to discuss end-of-pipe solutions, as we do today. [[Abg. Böhacker: International!]] Yes. In order to enable you to make a national contribution, Mr Böhacker, I would like to make the following motion for a resolution, which covers the core points of our ideas: [[Abg. Böhacker: We did that!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Hornek: at EU level!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] A first step would be to change this agricultural policy in the right direction. And you, Mr Böhacker, have the opportunity to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19191	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Gradwelt and Mr Genossins, has just been supported and is under negotiation. The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Dr Cap, comrades and comrades, is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Hornegger is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19219	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On Friday after the negotiations, Mr President-in-Office and Mr Molterer demonstrated their satisfaction at the financial committee because we have taken a majority decision on the basis of which BSE financing is guaranteed. In contrast to Mr Heindl, I therefore appeal to all the representatives of the country, but, as agreed, to make their contribution so that this sad chapter can finally be completed and not even higher taxes on our farmers and consumers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Colleague Auer is not in the hall now, but I could explain to him why the SPÖ cannot support these applications: Unfortunately, the SPÖ has recently become a disinterested, disoriented party, ladies and gentlemen. That's sad, but it's true. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The key dates are known to you. I am not satisfied – I say that from this pult once again, and I have also done it in advance in the negotiations – is the financing of the 250 million schilling, which is due to the slaughterhouse fees. One can only hope – I do not believe – that these fees – and then I place on our ministers that you will then come to our aid – that these costs will not be reduced to farmers and in the second line to consumers. Ladies and gentlemen! Should this be the case, I hope that colleagues from the agricultural policy will also be able to help me when it comes to finding a solution together with consumers, so that it is not only on the producers alone. To the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: They must help with us to obtain a label of the imported products so that we can show this. It must not be so that in Austria we produce products for which we no longer use animal meal in the feeding area, but on the other hand we find places in our stores on routes across other EU countries, via Eastern countries, third countries, which end up breaking our price. As a further point, I would like to stress the amendment to the meat investigation law, particularly the point in order to prevent conflicts of interest which could lead to doubts about impartiality by no longer ordering official veterinarians to be meat-researched veterinarians. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, an appeal: Let's do it the way our two ministers did, Chief and Molterer: Let's put the joint before the parting! Then we will cope positively with emerging crises such as the BSE crisis and the foot-and-mouth disease.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19279	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19300	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion on BSE follow-up costs again shows: This Federal Government's policy on pleas, bad luck and pans continues. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] That's the mark of "Regenerate New". The funding, ladies and gentlemen, is not guaranteed. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Because we don't have BSE cases, is that a favor?]] [[Abg. Auer: Yes, that's annoyed!]] I agree with colleagues In principle, when he speaks of a European issue in dealing with the BSE crisis, he speaks of a European issue in dealing with the BSE disease. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to quote the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the European Parliament, Elmar Brok of the CDU, who has dealt with this issue sufficiently: The ministers of agriculture in the Council of Ministers are also legislators, executives, controllers and also finance their policies. This is, of course, a very serious misconstruction, which urgently needs to be improved. Federal Minister Molterer! They were part of this misconstruction and are therefore responsible for this European agricultural policy. [[Abg. Böhacker: But this is already very far from here!]] Today, when we discuss the management of the BSE crisis, it is about replacing the costs of combating the disease. Only: Early control of the disease was prevented by the Council of Agriculture Ministers in 1997, at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express it quite openly: Normally, after a round of representatives, the representatives of the government take the floor. I'm just saying, The first round is already over, but you seem to have lost the language. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] The chaos is perfect. Dispute within the coalition. You can't agree on the cost. Federal Minister Molterer! Mr. Federal Minister. I would like to ask you specifically: Why have you been silent in the Committee on Facts? – It could also be formulated differently. – Why did you not inform us that the federal states have launched the consultation mechanism? The federal states, such as the federal state of Salzburg, have had sufficient reason to do so. Only for your information, because you are apparently not fully informed: There is a letter from the Federal Chancellery to the Office of the Salzburg State Government to comment on this package within a week. The opinion was submitted with 15.5.2001 and it was explicitly pointed out that the countries, in particular the country of Salzburg, are not prepared to bear these costs because the fight against animal diseases is the federal and not the countries. I quote: The measures required in the course of the BSE crisis are those of the veterinary, health and nutrition sector, including food control and therefore fall within the competence of the federal authorities as a whole, in legislation and enforcement. [[Abg. Murauer: In principle made itself! That's your problem!]] And now it comes: The BSE follow-up costs must therefore be borne exclusively by the European Union and the Federation. - Quote. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Not only Salzburg, but also other federal states have launched this consultation mechanism. We were told in the Committee on Finance that it would only be a problem for Vienna. Federal Minister! We are willing to do something together, but not under these conditions. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There was still a lot to be done with regard to the laws in detail. Mr Gradwelt has already said that the meat investigation law concerns the question of the official veterinarian and the practical physician. But the main problem I see is that BSE investigations are subject to the meat investigation law and are therefore subject to the country's sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should, in principle, deal with the issue of food safety. This concerns us about the problem of securing human resources in the federal food research institutes and in the other federal institutions. There will no longer be post-occupied in the event of terminations, not even – as in Salzburg – when someone retires. I therefore think that we should work together to achieve this – this is a constructive request from social democracy – that these posts be re-occupied. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! They are invited to contribute to food safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19424	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by the honourable Members. Maier, comrades and comrades are sufficiently supported and are negotiating. Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I shall return to a debate in the context of the urgent request. In this debate, Member Gaugg spoke literally of "mafiaic methods" and thus, as shown in the Minutes, clearly meant by Mr Edlinger. I'll give him a call for order. The next speaker was Mr Zellot. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19456	Mr President. The Federal Ministers! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the day of the decision-making on the Federal Act amending the Civil Fund Act and on various accompanying measures due to BSE follow-up costs. I think this is really a discharge from farmers. You have the feeling of finally being freed from this burden today, also from the burden of uncertainty. It should also be mentioned: There's no "pans" and there's no bad luck either. This is likely to be found in the other Member States. As soon as the Federal Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, Federal Minister of State, Minister of State, has acted in cooperation with Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Molterer, there is no such thing in any other European Member State. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Farmers are proud of it, and they know that they can rely on someone who does not come in empty words. Ladies and gentlemen! There may not always be an ideal solution here, but it is certain and certain that farmers will finally be freed from this burden. The government is, of course, not only a guarantee for the protection of consumers, but also for both consumers and farmers. We're on this alliance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the Government's proposal for the meat investigation law is concerned, there is also an amendment from me:
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19555	The amendment tabled by Mr Zelot, Dr. Stummvoll and colleagues, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Sima. A voluntary speaking time of 6 minutes is set. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19579	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! We already had a relatively strong debate in committee on BSE-related costs. Unfortunately, I have to say that our fears have actually been fully fulfilled. Today's proposal for legislation on BSE follow-up costs is the sad highlight of a long debate. Once again, there is chaos in the BSE follow-up costs. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: That's... that we don't have BSE case!]] I will explain it to you immediately, Mr Commissioner: because the countries have simply not been negotiated; at least there has not been any conclusion. This is really not the best way to achieve a success here. Above all, we have had to follow this debate – since I would like to pick up a little bit of history – more often. There was an BSE-cost debate at the end of December, there was an end of February, and there was just an end of April. It was always about dividing the follow-up costs between the Federal Government and countries, and as always the Federal Government was poorly prepared. After long disputes and many contradictory, conflicting proposals presented here, one has again agreed on transitional solutions. I would like to quote a few of them now, because this was really an absolutely absurd debate, and in my opinion it was almost unworthy. In January, Minister for Agriculture Molterer spoke of BSE charges, i.e. a waste on the consumer. The Committee on Agriculture asked for an increase in VAT shortly thereafter in order to cover the BSE-related costs. The Minister for Finance directly excluded VAT. Head of State Haider proposed a BSE schilling and the next day distanced himself from his own demand. Minister of Health has asked the EU to take all the follow-up costs, and the next day he said: Trade shall bear the costs of the BSE follow-up. – Now that was just a small selection of proposals, I could read that much longer. They note that there was obviously no uniform opinion here in the Federal Government. It was a bad preparation, and now the same thing happened again. The transitional solution expired at the end of April. We have reached the beginning of June, and there is still no ready solution that would really be on the table and negotiated with the countries. I think you have just neglected ensuring the further financing of BSE follow-up costs. With a mild name one can only call this procedure "unsick". For to decide in the Committee on a regime which has not been negotiated with the countries and for which there is no agreement of the countries, it can only be described as unskillable. What would interest me is: How do you imagine that? Do you simply want to decide this here and today and present the countries with completed facts? Faith You really think this is a good strategy if you want to pay 40 percent of the costs of the countries? – I can’t imagine that this is a good strategy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Have you considered what happens to this proposal, which you want to decide today, if the countries decide not to pay within the framework of the consultation mechanism? Who will then take over the 40 percent you have planned here? – These are very open points that have not really been clarified. Finally, I would like to take a brief look at the increase in slaughterhouse fees. As you know, we have always stressed that it is very important to us that consumers are not burdened twice. Consumers must already pay for the financing of agricultural policy. With the slaughterhouse charges, which are certainly passed on to consumers or one to one to the consumers, they then have to pay twice for agriculture: once for the policies you have taken up, and once for disposal. [[Abg. Großruck:... this is a logic!]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: This is the wrong argument!]] No, that's not the wrong argument. That's the argument you don't want to hear! I can understand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler:... you have always pleaded for the imports!]] That's not true at all! We will, of course, agree to the extension of the animal meal ban, as my colleagues have already pointed out. But for the slaughterhouse fee and for this poorly prepared draft for the acquisition of BSE follow-up costs you will not get our consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19668	The next speaker was Mr Pistotnig. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19690	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier said here: The pans in this government continue. – He also said: Molterer is co-responsible for having the BSE crisis. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Mr Maier, you are a very brave man, I'm "gratulating"! They were one of those who cried out loudest, how beautiful it is in the EU, and who beat people wide. But now that we know that in the EU everything is not rosy, what is happening there, now individual people are responsible at once! I would like to congratulate you on this; I would have imagined something else. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But one thing I also say to you: If the EU were to work in this way in the agricultural policy – and I have no reason to defend Molterer – like our Minister of Agriculture Molterer, like a Federal Minister of Agriculture, or like our farmers, then the world would be fine. There they have to learn; I hope they are able to learn. Let us be proud that a "small" minister from a small EU country says where it goes. The EU does not believe it yet, but it will be on its way. Dear colleague Sima! There is no chaos in the follow-up costs. If you had read § 6, you would know that farmers should not be used to pay for it via slaughterhouse fees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zelot.]] But you are right, we have already spent billions of money on the BSE crisis and we will use more resources for it. This is to put a thing into control that we have not caused. Thanks to God, our farmers have worked so well that we have no BSE case. Thank God the danger of feeding animal meal in Austria has long been recognized before the EU, and this has been forbidden. But I would be interested when the EU will have the courage to ban this in general – now there is only one extension – because of course that belongs to it. We tell them every day anyway, Mrs. Sima, only no one believes us so far. I wonder when they will think about whether there has already been enough disasters. The contaminants – which has already been addressed today – are of course feed manufacturers and large farms. With us in Europe, there is the system that you bring the fire brigade only after the fire start; you do not prevent the fire. The Austrian farmers have slowed down long before the arson, and they prevent these fires. But we're just a little grain in a big economic block. Ladies and gentlemen! I see the next disaster to be expected again coming in the wood. I was recently in a sawmill and measured wood there. There they had delivered wood from Switzerland, the disaster wood that overthrew the "Lothar" two years ago. I can tell you one thing: This wood is grafted with pests – starting from the woodbock, and I am not talking about the birch beetle at all – and there is no way to ban imports even against third countries. I inquired at the Ministry and at the National Forest Director: It's just not possible. There I see the next disaster coming. I wonder once again whether the EU is learning nothing from it. Professor Prodi said in the "Europe News": "BSE and foot-and-mouth disease are the disastrous effects of a missing policy." – I would like to ask you to say this once to the Green Minister for Agriculture in Germany, and also to Mr Schröder! You probably haven't heard of it there yet. But Mr Prodi seems to have already come up with it. They will not be able to explain to a farmer why our farmer has to take note of the most expensive production and that the pressure on the price of the other countries will be so high that the farmer simply cannot find it anymore. In the end, the little one should always pay for the sins of the great and the sloppy. It's not visible, so it can't be in the long run! Not that our Federal Minister, Molterer, like a lonely caller in the EU desert, always says what is necessary and where it goes – that is the truth. They have to think about it. Jesus said when he was crucified: "Lord, forgive them, for they do not know what they do." - Let me tell you one thing: The EU gentlemen know exactly what they are doing. They only use the time disgracefully as long as it will take for us to say yes and Amen to everything. But once we reach the Mount of Oil, it will be too late!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19765	The next speaker is Mrs Anna Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19789	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Zellot! I would like to ask you: Clear You do exactly what you do? – If you are today actually pushing through this bill package for the coverage of BSE costs, then you are on very thin ice. [[Abg. Böhacker: It wasn't Zelot, it was Pistodige!]] You know that very well. Of the 400 million schilling countries, 130 million are expected to pay – at least more than a third. You just went over with this law without consideration. An agreement is not in sight, even if you still so conjure it, so this 130 million schilling is not yet coming to the world. You know that the consultation mechanism has been set in motion. That is why I seriously ask you, Mr Minister, where should this third come from if the countries do not pay? [[Abg. Böhacker: Best, we don't do anything?]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Where is your proposal? Where does... come from?]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Do you want farmers to pay?]] I am very concerned that, on the other hand, in the Food Investigation Act, you will leave it to the national leaders, what the control plans should look like. Dear Lords of the Government! How do you want to guarantee uniform standards if not even the same frequency of control can be provided or guaranteed? [[Abg. May. Trattner:... word in the mouth!]] I am also concerned that at this time when consumers – probably very legitimate or unwarranted – are concerned about the safety of meat, the capacity of food research institutes is being restricted. Do you really think that personnel reductions and, therefore, reductions in controls will particularly strengthen consumer confidence? I am also concerned that the funding provided by the Ministry of Health for financing will be deducted from the resources previously provided for quality improvement. This means, please, that further quality improvements are not planned at the moment. I am also concerned that, despite the BSE problems – which have not occurred with us thanks to God – the causers have not been used to pay again. However, figures must be very likely for consumers, and they pay twice and triples: on taxes and on meat prices. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I would therefore ask you to take the floor and take up the proposal of our committee chairman Heindl: Let us refer this financing package back to the Financial Committee! Make the consensus with the countries, and in July we will decide on a round, proper financing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19880	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19902	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Mr State Secretary! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! As a farmer, I am very sad that there is a mood here on the back of the cattle farmers who have already suffered almost a billion shillings of income losses due to the price losses, against the orderly financing of risk recovery and tests. [[Abg. Huber: There is no orderly financing!]] We will soon have carried out 100 000 BSE tests, and I hope that these 100 000 will not be a single positive case. It will also have its effect that we have already banned animal meal feeding to ruminants in Austria in 1990 and also checked that the ban has been complied with. If the honourable Member is talking about a "place", I must say: It is not a "place" for me if we are one of the three countries in addition to Sweden and Finland that do not yet have BSE cases. There is therefore no "place" of our government, but it should be recognised, taken into account and supported accordingly by the measures we have put in place and put in place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Molterer also supported Commissioner Fischler's proposal to introduce a ceiling of 90 animal premiums per holding in all 15 Member States of the European Union. This issue and these proposals were discussed in the European Parliament two weeks ago. There, too, the Austrian SPÖ delegates and the Green Member Voggenhuber have rejected this proposal of restriction to 90 animal premiums per holding. I must draw attention to the fact that these animal premiums are 100% paid by the EU, which can only be changed by amending the EU directives. A farmer has a legal claim on it. If the Ministry refuses to pay over 90 premiums, the farmer concerned could sue these premiums. It must be regulated in the EU, and this is an objective of the Austrian Federal Government. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution on the Government document 584 of the Supplements: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the interests of all Austrian farmers, I would ask that this motion for a resolution be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e19979	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is in a sufficient context with the subject-matter of the negotiations and is therefore part of the negotiation or vote. The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e20006	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! My colleague, Mr Pirklhuber, will say a few words about the European debate on beef premiums. Mr Schwarzenberger! It really raises the question – particularly with regard to the position of the ÖVP in the past – as you yourself have kept it with the call you have read at the end of your request: to express the interests of the small and medium-sized farmers. Mr Schwarzenberger, I do not know how many green requests have been rejected in the direction of a mandatory, binding declaration of products, not only when an animal is only a product – if it is meat or if we talk about eggs – but also when we talk about animals. You have always refused a binding product declaration according to how the animal lived before – the animal justice index – although it would have been one of the most important steps towards protecting farm interests. I do not think this is a credible policy which you are presenting here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! On a number of specific cases, I would like to ask you how some of your colleagues, your mayors, do. They know the names, for example from Upper Austria, from the largest Austrian chicken holder, who continues to invest in the cagekeeping of hens – now in the Lower Austrian area, in side streets. At the European level, the members of the government can negotiate so much about the exit from the chicken batteries – Mr Latschenberger continues to invest and continue. Then we also learn that the limits on environmental impact assessment are not respected. If the animalists get on it, then just at night and fog disappear a few 10,000 chickens and go to the battle bench in advance. This is not the protection of the agricultural interests. Please turn to your own door! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] I would like to say a few words about the meat investigation law. Mr. Federal Minister. You know that we are, of course, acting for the most stringent investigations. We have no understanding of this if there are conflicts of interest somewhere that could be at the expense of product quality and at the expense of consumer protection. But I ask myself whether this law and this type of regulation will really satisfy that objective or whether it will be sustainable in this way under the terms of the Constitution. I also ask the question: Who has reviewed the constitutional conformity of this government template, and what has been the outcome of this review? – If it is stated here in the explanatory notes as regards the control function of official veterinarians, doubts about impartiality may not be excluded, this raises me with the following questions: Was there any specific occasions? How were these stored? Is it the function of a person as an official veterinarian or an official veterinarian, or could there not be any conflict of interest – against which we are all – with other persons, i.e. with veterinary doctors who are not appointed as official veterinarians? What are we doing about these conflicts of interest? Official veterinarians must not act as occupational veterinarians, therefore I believe that in this group of persons the likelihood of such conflicts of interest should be less likely. And if we still do – and I can do so in this respect with the request made by the honourable Member – a geographical separation of functions, then I do not think that the likelihood of conflicts of interest among official veterinarians is actually greater than with others. There is no doubt that we should fight conflicts of interest, but a certain group whose sale in the official function is not exactly world-moving, so that – with a striking regulation – a source of revenue and also a possibility of collecting practical experience, it does not seem to me entirely inconstitutional aspects of freedom of employment and equality. In addition, I also ask myself the question of the extent to which a federal authority, a Federal Minister, should be possible, if nothing, nothing to you an order that my information is made by the head of state or the head of state, to annul. – I would have expected legal explanations on constitutional conformity. One last thing: Mr. Federal Minister. In a multifunctional function, you are not only responsible for this area, but also for women's affairs, and you have recently announced in this function a speech of equal treatment, in which it is expressly said that women's participation is too little. You know as well as I do that the study of veterinary medicine has been performed and completed very often and very intensively by women. Why, contrary to the Council of Ministers' proposal, you yourself are again presenting a draft law, in which women are not even ignored as regards the linguistic division, it must probably result in a higher logic of the legal departments in your home. All in all, we cannot agree to this area. Mr Pirklhuber will still give an opinion on the beef premiums.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e20085	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e20106	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Mr Schwarzenberger referred to the European level once again. I think it is necessary to clarify what you are currently giving and disseminating in your agricultural media. It is true that the Conservative Group in the European Parliament, led by the Christian Democrats in person by the British rapporteur, Mr Sturdy, has brought a proposal to the Committee on Agriculture, which intends to abolish the 90th Directive. This is a fact, Mr Schwarzenberger, but you obviously do not know that. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is the upper limit after the Fischler proposal!]] I agree with you that your party colleagues were for a binding border of 90 bovine animals, only they could not even stand up to this position in their own European Parliament Group. That's the reality! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] [[Abg. Auer: How was that in your group?]] That is the reality, Mr Schwarzenberger, and you should not hide it. - I'll be right there, colleague Auer! The Green Amendment has for the first time put the labour force component on the agenda at European level, i.e. that businesses are to be assessed in terms of funding, according to how many employees there are in this company. I think that's a first step. But I agree with you: I too am not satisfied with this proposal because I am dealing with a specific element, namely a degression component. It is missing in this proposal, and I believe that we should continue to work at European level towards a change in this directive. However, I would like to conclude – and this about your information! – also do not hide that the support limit in Austria is currently 200 mastriders. This is stated in the 2000 animal premium regulation, which should not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e20171	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e20193	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is nothing to add to the explanations made by my predecessor on the accusations made by Mr Schwarzenberger, but something has to be mentioned: Ladies and gentlemen, especially the government coalition! We're negotiating a package of financing here. A number of questions have been raised in the context of these negotiations. Remarkably, three members of the government sit on the government bank, but no one has participated in this discussion. Even if you do not notice, ladies and gentlemen of the government: This refusal of discussion, this refusal to talk, is a disdain of Parliament! [[Abg. Auer: Thank you very much!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this also concerns you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e20228	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We are now coming to a whole series of votes. With regard to the draft law concerning a federal law amending the Civil Fund Act 1996 and the Federal Finance Act 2001, there is a referral request from Members Dr. Heindl and Comrades, on whom I shall vote immediately. I would ask those members of the House who are in favour of having to refer the draft federal law amending the Civil Fund Act 1996 and the Federal Finance Act 2001 back to the Financial Committee for a sign. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. In addition, as regards the draft law concerning a federal law amending the instructions on the exploitation of articles of animal origin in animal body recycling establishments (animal body exploitation), a referral request from Members Dr. Heindl and comrades is available. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of having to refer back to the Financial Committee in 585 the draft law against which it is based, in order to give a sign. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. Finally, as regards the draft law concerning a federal law amending the meat investigation law, there is a referral request from Dr. Heindl and comrades. I shall also vote on this referral request at once. I would ask those members of the House who are in favour of referring the draft law concerning a federal law amending the meat investigation law back to the Financial Committee for a sign. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the individual items themselves, which I shall do separately. First, we shall vote on the draft law in 587 of the Supplements. To this end, Deputies Böhacker, Dr. Assuredly and comrades submit an amendment which refers to the deletion of Article 2 and the resulting changes in the number and title. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt as amended by the Government template, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Böhacker, Mr Dr. Stummvoll and Mr Comrades. I am looking for a corresponding sign in the case of confirmation. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 585 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree with this draft law at third reading too, in order to give a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 586 of the supplements. To this end, the Members of Parliament, Dr. Stummvoll and comrades have tabled an amendment. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled a motion for an amendment. I am therefore going to vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the amendments and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Gradwelt and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to point 2 and to the deletion of Article 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. Whoever gives his consent to this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. Mr Zellot, Mr Stummvoll and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to paragraph 6. I would like to ask those Members of the House who give their agreement to do so for a sign in this regard. – This is the majority again, and thus adopted. Mr Gradwelt and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to the deletion of Article 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Mr Zellot, Mr Stummvoll and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to paragraph 3 in Article 2. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of a sign of approval. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign in this regard. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a similar sign. – I notice: This is the majority again. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Maier and comrades on the protection of human resources in the Federal Food Research and Other Federal Institutes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 584 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – I notice: That is unanimity the other day. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cap and Mr Comrades on the fundamental reorientation of the agricultural system by radical conversion of the support system with a strict focus on social justice and the sustainable promotion of organic farming in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Schwarzenberger, Mr Wenitsch and Mr Comrades on the principles of Austrian agricultural policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – I notice: This is the majority, and so it is accepted. (E 85.) 21. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (562 of the Supplements): The Federal Law on the Restriction of Time-limits by the 31st century. December 2001 (602 of the Supplements) 22. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (590 of the Supplements): The Federal Act, with which the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the VAT Act 1994, the Federal Act of 19 December 1988. May 1976 on VAT remuneration to foreign representative authorities and their members in the diplomatic and professional consular status, the Assessment Act 1955, the Basic Tax Act 1955, the Assessment Amendment Act 1987, the Heritage and Gift Tax Act 1955, the Income Tax Act 1987, the Road Tax Act, the Insurance Tax Act 1953, the Fire Tax Act 1952, the Gas Tax Act, the Energy Tax Rate Act, the Municipal Tax Act 1993, the Federal Tax Code, the Tax Code, the Financial Penal Code and the Gambling Act (EuroStuG 2001) (603 of the Supplements) 23. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (567 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Law on the Enforcement of Customs Law and the Procuratur Act (4. Customs-Implementation Act-Novelle – 4. ZollR-DG-Novelle) (604 of the Supplements) 24. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (589 of the Supplements): Federal Act laying down additional rules in respect of the movement of goods which infringe an intellectual property right (Product Piracy Act – PPG) (605 of the Supplements) 25. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (554 of the Supplements): Decision of the Council of the European Union of 29. September 2000 on the system of own resources of the European Communities (607 of the Supplements) 26. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (591 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Performance of a Contribution to the Asian Development Fund (ADF VIII) of the Asian Development Bank (606 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e20550	We now come to points 21 to 26 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. I assume that reporting will not be reported so that we can go directly into the debate. First of all, Mr Heindl has spoken. I'll give it to him with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e20577	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing today with a bundle of laws relating to the euro changeover. The participation of Austria in economic and monetary union means participation in a historically unique integration project for Austria and thus the opportunity for our country to participate in and benefit from a powerful monetary and economic area. The removal of exchange rate risks and increased price transparency have greatly stimulated intra-European trade. Economic and monetary union was quite successful in the now almost two and a half years of its existence. The main objective of the euro system, price stability and thus purchasing power has been achieved by far. In the EU countries, inflation rates have declined despite increases in energy prices. Economic growth is good, unemployment is falling, and the budgets of the euro countries are moving towards stabilisation. Recently, the exchange rate between US dollar and euro has often been discussed. Ladies and gentlemen! Without the Euro cursor: If we want to neglect US dollars, I would like to point out two essential aspects: The twelve EU member countries of the euro area generate 85 to 90 percent of their gross domestic product within the euro area. We should not think in the short term either. Let's think back to the bocks that made the currency's curtailing relation to schilling and the D-Mark over the last 10, 15 years! However, they were not necessarily crucial to the economic and monetary situation in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! With the introduction of euro cash, there is now another major challenge, for businesses as well as for consumers. Over the past century, the Austrian population has also had to get used to new currencies several times in the context of monetary reforms. However, the changeover from schilling to euro is different from previous currency changes mainly because this time it is a voluntary currency changeover rather than a currency reform with all its negative effects – as has been the case several times in the past century. It is understandable that such a change for many parts of the Austrian population, especially for the older generation, is accompanied by a sense of uncertainty. In the case of currency reforms in the past, the Austrians have always had to expect losses. In addition, people's confidence in schilling was and is very great. The main reason for this is the successful stability and hard currency policy over the last 30 years. The beginning of this hard currency policy was not easy and without a doubt a success of the inner Austrian real constitution, namely the cooperation of the social partners with the government. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There was little inflation in our country in these 30 years, and we had a hard currency. Given the changeover to a new currency, many citizens hope that the euro will also be a hard currency, combined with stability, no or only low inflation and economic prosperity. The population's expectations therefore focus on the fact that the euro can also be trusted to the same extent as schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that politics and the economy have the central task of conveying this confidence and not of insinuating uncertainty. The European Union's monetary policy has long been aimed at keeping the euro stable. [[Abg. Böhacker: Not quite successful!]] If, in the early 1980s, there was nothing unusual in some EU countries to have inflation rates of 20 percent and more, there has been a similar trend over the last two and a half years. Practically all countries in the euro area were able to push their inflation rates below 5 percent. The purchasing power of the euro is thus secured. Ladies and gentlemen! Opinion polls signal our consent to the euro changeover, to the euro in the order between 50 and 53 percent in Austria. However, we must note that around 38 percent of the Austrian population of the introduction of the euro are still very critical or even negative. However, the information campaigns of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Workers and, lastly, the Federal Government are beginning to take hold. Since these campaigns are under way, we have seen a up to five percent increase in public approval. Ladies and gentlemen! Businesses are also required. Although many companies have already introduced the double awarding of prices, the euro prices are largely only marked with restraint and rather small prints. Their perceptibility and thus the discussion of consumers with euro prices is not particularly promoted. Public and public sector in particular play a role in building trust. Ladies and gentlemen! It is an important signal, and therefore I also appeal to the government not to raise government fees in the course of the euro changeover. On the part of the government, Minister of Finance Grasser in the Financial Committee has made the statement that he guarantees that, in the course of the euro changeover, there will not be any price increases and burdens on citizens, that even an advantage of approximately 250 to 300 million schilling can be expected. In some federal states, observation work is already being carried out in this respect, and I very much hope that this will take place in general in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! For the Austrian economy, the euro offers many additional opportunities. Exports in particular can benefit: Removal of transaction costs for exchange of currencies, removal of export barriers for small and medium-sized enterprises. The monetary risks fall away. [[Abg. Böhacker: international transfers continue to be expensive!]] The new single currency creates price transparency and facilitates price comparison. At the same time, of course, competition presents special challenges. We are hearing with particular interest – at least I have done so – that, according to the National Bank, 40 percent of new emissions have already taken place in euro in 2000, and that according to an IMF analysis, the share of the euro in international foreign exchange reserves was already 13 percent at the end of 1999. That means: The euro is already the second strongest, second most important reserve currency after the US dollar. In addition, the euro is already acting directly or indirectly as an anchor currency for its exchange rate regime in around 50 countries worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, it is also necessary to see the dangers and problems that go hand in hand with this euro changeover. Experts in the Chamber of Labour see in particular three dangers: secret price increases during the conversion, false conversions and the same price for smaller packages. In this area, I have already said this, special observations are appropriate both on the part of the economy and on the part of consumers and ultimately on the part of the government. Let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say again: We should keep in mind and, in particular, make our fellow citizens aware that the euro changeover is not a currency reform, but rather a computer changeover, in which balances as debt remain equally valuable. The European Single Market currently comprises 360 million inhabitants, of which around 300 million will use the euro. Just as we have felt the schilling as our currency and until the very last feel, so I very much hope that we will soon be able to speak of "our euro". We Socialists will therefore give our approval to all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e20639	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e20660	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Heindl! It would be quite tempting to replicate your statements, in particular with regard to the stability and the internal and external value of the euro. They preferred to sing a hymn of praise to the euro. I do not fully share your opinion, but that is your matter. I would now like to return to the downfalls in the present matter of law after your monetary policy flights, and to introduce a motion for an amendment by Mr Böhacker, Dr. Stummvold and colleagues to the Euro-Taxation Act. The application has already been distributed. In essence, this request concerns roundings, in particular certain allowances should be increased in order to obtain 12 divisible values. In part, these are only clarifications from administrative practice. An appropriate legal provision should simply be made. § 33 of the EStG deals with a uniform rate. Secondly, I would like to deal with the Euro pean Tax Regulation. Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser has promised, not only in the Financial Committee, but before, that the conversion, in the rounds, will not entail any additional burden on the taxpayer, but quite the contrary: Rounds should be in favour of the taxable person. One can characterise this Euro-Tax Change-over Act in this way: No basket money for the Minister of Finance in the euro conversion. In the case of the replacement of schilling amounts by euro amounts, the financial sector has been quite fair and thus also exemplary. Mr Heindl has already addressed this issue: This change will not create a burden, but quite the contrary: Taxation and taxation are reduced by approximately 250 to 300 million schilling, which in principle represents nothing but a small tax reform, a tax reduction. So there's no basket money for the Minister of Finance. The fact that Mr Heindl has already announced his group's agreement to this Euro-Tax Change Act shows that this is also seen by the opposition. I would like to see the changeover from Schilling to Euro not used in the private sector to silent price increases. In this respect, market observations and price comparisons can be expected to be very positive in this area too and that, apart from exceptions, there will usually not be any increases due to the euro changeover. A few words to the Customs Enforcement Act: It is known that the customs administration offers economic operators so-called house views also outside the customs office and outside the official hours of customs duties. The fees previously charged were no longer cost-effective. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly criticised the fact that it does not work with cost-effective tariffs. The resultant finish is about 20 million schilling. The aim of this innovation is to ensure that work can be carried out on a cost-effective basis. In other respects, there is a relief or a reduction for the economy with this new law: So far, every hour started has been calculated as a full hour, now every hour started is to be charged only more than half an hour. There will also be facilitation for the economy through the expansion of customs online, i.e. the use of computer. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will, of course, be voting in favour of all the new laws in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e20714	The amendment tabled by Mr Böhacker has a great deal of scope and has already been distributed in plenary. It is sufficiently supported and is therefore also involved in the negotiation. – It will be distributed, it has not yet been distributed, but it will be distributed. I would ask you to take note of him accordingly. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e21897	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Maderthaner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e21918	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues in the house! An important step forward in the development of the common Europe is now facing concrete implementation: the use of the euro as a daily means of payment. It is, of course, necessary to put in place the appropriate accompanying measures and also to provide them with the legal basis. This also includes inhibiting the time-limits through the 31st century. ==References== That's to say, the 31. In December, where credit institutions have been closed by the introduction of the new means of payment due to the major labour attack, payment periods shall be equal to Saturdays, Sundays, holidays and day-cars. This is a good thing, because for all Austrians, especially for the farms, a considerable amount of work is created by this currency changeover. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this short-term surplus or overload can be very much purchased, I believe, if we consider the positive effects of this introduction of a common European currency as a daily means of payment. Ladies and gentlemen! The EU is a single success story, so I would say if we look at its development since its inception. It is both a success story from a personal point of view – the Visiting other countries or other cities is as easy today as if you are travelling from Vienna to Salzburg or flying from Vienna to Innsbruck, but it is already starting when you change money. I found this in France only last week: You can enter and walk through every customs office without problems, but if you want to change money, there are problems at the hotel, there are difficulties and so on; all this is lost. However, it is also a success story from an economic point of view – if we look at it in recent years, we see that export activity has been substantially increased, especially of course exports to EU countries – and the EU is also a success story if you consider it to be a peace-making measure, and here in particular. Because the success can be seen and felt, everything must also be done to strengthen and develop this European integration. And this Community currency is a major contribution to this development, as I believe. There are still great tasks ahead of us, which is why it is important to take any Community-promoting measure to deal with these major tasks too, and the greatest of these tasks that we will have to deal with in the future is certainly the full integration of the Central and Eastern European countries. We have everything to do – with the appropriate preparation of course – that Western and Eastern Europe will be brought together, because the competition of the future, ladies and gentlemen – and this, of course, is particularly interested in the economy, and the economy is all – will take place between Europe and America and between Europe and Asia. And to do that, I believe, we need the whole common Europe: East and west. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We will have to do everything we can to work together well, to use the strengths of each country, and we will also have to do everything we can to understand each other not only with the heart, but also to understand us in a common language, if possible. Ladies and gentlemen! This will also be a great challenge and a great task, but I could well imagine – and we will certainly not be around in the future – to teach English in all countries of Europe already in the public school or in the kindergarten next to our own national language. I believe that – I am quite aware of what this means, but also of the experience of one that has come about in many countries – this would be a great advantage for the consolidation of this common Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like us all to understand this and also the courage to do so and jump over our own shadow. Ladies and gentlemen! Since I am going to relinquish my mandate at the end of June, this is also my last speech as a Member of this House. They therefore allow me to say a few words. I am now working in this house almost on the day exactly 22 years: 10 years in the Federal Council and 12 years in the National Council; in 12 days it will be exactly 22 years. It has been an interesting and exciting period of life that I do not want to miss. The work in this house has always been and has always been a challenge for me. She wasn't always quite satisfactory. Let us say that very clearly and clearly. Much has happened in this long period of 22 years. A number of important decisions have been taken to make important legislative decisions for the economy, which have brought positive results to enterprises as a whole, i.e. employers and workers, who have also been able to develop themselves strongly and effectively and to demonstrate in the domestic as well as in the export industry what quality products are. The Austrian quality products – I can say that – are really good both as goods and as a service abroad, and we should be happy about this. Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly pleased that exports have been particularly successful in the last ten years, because I was responsible for this. And I'm a little proud, too, if I can say, In 1990 we had a volume of 470 billion schillings in exports and now, in 2000, some 950 billion schillings, about a doubling of the total volume of exports. And that's very pleasing. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman and the Abg. Dr. Heindl.]] I am also very pleased that I have been able to support and advance accession to the European Union at crucial stages, and I believe that this has also made a positive contribution to the successful development of Austria and the Austrian economy. I am also pleased that as a politician I have been able to help some people in important concerns and to alleviate many sufferings. As I said earlier, some have not been satisfactory either. So I may say that I have decided so many things, which was not quite in my own mind – we are probably going to all of us sometimes, not a question – and that, for example, in terms of reducing the additional wage costs – even a special chapter of mine – despite efforts, I still cannot find any special success. You will still have to work on this, or you will still have to work on all those who can influence it in some way. What also saddens me, ladies and gentlemen, when I take stock of this, is that I have not been able to help some people in their concerns or concerns – for various reasons. At any rate, I would like to take the opportunity to thank everyone in this House, all the employees of this House, from the ground floor to the second floor, who helped me in various situations. Thank you very much! I'll never forget this. [[General condolences.]] I would also like to thank all my colleagues who have worked well with me. It has also developed very good friendships. At such a final speech, one may also express wishes. I don't have a lot, but I'd love to put on a few. I would be very pleased if it would be possible for anyone working in the law machine to combine two relatively incomprehensible laws in one that is easy to understand. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] If one were to pay premiums, that would certainly be an incentive and a real service to the citizen. My second wish: Ladies and gentlemen! Dear friends! Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you, who continue to work in this House, a lot of joy in your work in the High House and a lot of success in your work, which is to be borne by mutual respect – I say this quite consciously – in order to give a good example to youth as well, and which above all should also be borne by a high level of responsibility for our beautiful Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22053	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Kurt Eder, for an actual correction, allow me to say a few more personal words to Leo Madethaner from the Presidency. Dear Leo Maderthaner! You have been and have not only been one of the outstanding parliamentarians through your more than twenty years of work in this House, but you have been the symbol of the economy and of the social partnership for us for years. You yourself were one who not only worked for the representative of interest entrusted to him, but also carried the reputation of Austria personally into the world, and we all know that we have a good share of the Austrian export success also attributed to your activity. However, we also know how to appreciate your activity in the accession of Austria to the European Union and also in Austria's participation in a common European currency. We thank you for this and wish you all the best on your future life course! In your last speech here in this place, you used the word "the whole of the common" and you always kept it that way to see the whole thing together and to do it together. In this sense we wish you all the best, and you will continue to be a model and model for us in many interests. [[General condolences.]] Mr Kurt Ederge has referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22106	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maderthaner, in his speech, said that he had done a good job in his 22 years of parliamentary work, and I would like to note that this is only conditionally correct. I would like to point out here: Mr Maderthaner has done a very good job in these 22 years and I should also like to congratulate him very warmly on behalf of my group. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, the liberals and the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens]] I thank you for his last speech. I hope we remain friends, and I wish him health and hope for continued good cooperation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22145	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22166	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Estimated colleague Maderthaner! I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. On the one hand, you have designed your contribution to the actual item on the agenda in such a way that you have rightly pointed out that we now have a legislative work in front of us, which is purely technical, but which is in reality one of the important and major conversions and one of the few things that are offered here in the House in 2001 on the occasion of the introduction of the euro. Mr Maderthaner took the opportunity to speak a few words of European and economic policy. I think this is very fine, and I would like to refer to it briefly. On the occasion of the ever-trouble situation of saying goodbye to someone with whom we have actually had a very critical approach from history, I would just like to say two things: the role of social partners and the activity of individuals here in the house. Of course, the role of social partnership is very ambivalent from the tradition of the Greens as far as the fights of the 1980s – that is right – are concerned, on the other hand, with regard to the question of concordance-democratic funds, which, where they offer their advantages, were not only rejected by the Greens. There are certain advantages of negotiation, and now the question – I stretch the bow to the present – is being pushed aside relatively quickly by the advantages and disadvantages of a concordance democracy. In this respect, I can also take something critical into the present with my praise for your past activity and, so to speak, have fulfilled both roles that I have to perform here. But I mean it honestly. The second in this context: It has not been so clear to us until the end to what extent interest representatives are sitting in Parliament or simply formulated – salopp; They apologise and take note of this – stay outside. I did not come to a unanimous opinion. It also has certain advantages if, as it were, a kind of cultivated lobbyism – in parts, not in quantitatively dominant parts – takes place here in the house. You have certainly made your contribution to this, and I should like to congratulate Parliamentary Maderthaner on his Greens for the future. [[We welcome the Greens and the ÖVP, as well as the SPÖ and the Liberals.]] I am not going to talk for too long, because it is already 8 p.m. – the question of the introduction of the euro and the enlargement of the East from an economic point of view. For the introduction of the euro: You know, the Greens were relatively skeptical about the matter. I am also in retrospect for having advantages and disadvantages. The disadvantages of the single economic and monetary area were also known. This is the loss of an independent monetary policy and so on and so on, it is the disadvantages of countries – not from Austria – which may not yet be so far so far with the convergence criteria, especially in the south of Europe, so that at least in economic policy advice the situation in the mid-1990s – which must be reflected today – was not so clear. Many bourgeois economists, in whom I was still allowed to study in the 1980s, also considered the project very skeptical. The Greens have taken over some of this scepticism, but also recognized benefits. I do not want to admit in retrospect that a monetary union, this great throw, if at all, can only succeed if one raises it to the political project. I believe that it has been made a political project at all, because it has needed one in Europe, but I have already gained the insight that eternal expectation is that until all the convergence criteria fit precisely, until all policies in economic policy design – financial policy, budget deficits et cetera – are fully harmonised, perhaps a waiting for Godot. In so far, it has actually been a big political throw – recognised in retrospect; a few green voices have already been there at that time – and I am quite sure that such a project cannot be implemented differently at all. This is marked here. Nevertheless, we also feel some disadvantages of monetary union, but we do not want to expressly regret them today. The fact is that there were not only events at that time, but it was a classic weighing of for and against, and there were quite a lot of reasonable arguments taking place. With regard to the enlargement of the East and the economic policy direction and line of this Federal Government, I am not as sure as to the speed of a uniform course that is actually needed, and I can say here that, as far as the previous speaker is concerned, the greens are already much further away, because they recognise the possibility and the sensibleness of the implementation of transitional periods, but that they may be accurately and definitely and precisely defined at seven years, I think that they are a little overdue. There might be another possibility: there are also certain bilateral possibilities and the accession treaty of the Eastern countries gives these bilateral opportunities. Then we could agree on specific transitional periods; that would be an essential step. I know that some negotiations are also going in this direction. However, one must be skeptical when comparing this with the "F" economic policy projects, which are based on family and migration policy – how should I say? – Findings or defending their own line actually runs a difficult economic course. I think that this is a great damage if the government does not disband itself from what certain parts of the FPÖ have to say. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: (showing on the red light at the speaker's desk) speaking time!]] Time is voluntary. Mr Böhacker, you should listen carefully. It is simply not to be tolerated, either from the point of view of human kindness or from the point of view of human rights, but also for economic policy reasons that such restrictive action is being taken here. I would have expected a different line and enforcement of the ÖVP in the last few days. This is the subject raised by Mr Maderthaner. I want it used. The other items on the agenda are our approval. You don't have to explain that any more, since so many good speeches have already been made. [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you mean me?]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22234	The next speaker is Mr Sodian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22256	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear colleague Maderthaner! As still young Members on behalf of the Freedom Party, I can thank you very much for your extraordinary and truly committed work in this House. As a young Member of Parliament, who has come to know and appreciate you over the last one and a half years, who has been following your work in media presence for decades, I would like to thank you once again and wish you all the best for the next decades and for your further development. Thank you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now a few words about the product piracy law, ladies and gentlemen: Worldwide, there is a huge increase in serious offences due to product piracy and product counterfeiting. Whole industries of some countries are only concerned with the production of cheap copies. Thus, the number of seized goods has almost increased tenfold in the last six years. In the first three quarters of 2000, 274 seizures were made in Austria by customs offices and 235,000 units of counterfeit goods were seized. The majority of cases are clothing and accessories. Watches and jewelry are becoming increasingly common and with increasing tendency CDs, computer software and perfumery products and cosmetics are confiscated. The highest growth in recent years has been in the field of car suppliers, even before the forgery of the potency pill Viagra is not stopped. Among the most frequent countries of origin of counterfeit products, ladies and gentlemen, are Hong Kong, China, Ukraine and Thailand. According to studies conducted by the OECD and the International Chamber of Commerce, the worldwide damage caused by piracy amounts to 250 trillion j per year. Facilitating the new legislation on piracy, which complements the 1995 EU regulation. This Regulation lays down measures for the administration of customs duties and creates an instrument allowing the customs authorities to withdraw from the market, as early as possible, the goods infringing protection rights. This shortened procedure has the advantage that the courts will be relieved. The Republic of Austria has here at the expense of the rightholder only to ensure the destruction of the goods and can carry them with its permission charitative purposes. Product piracy has a particularly negative impact on the economy and on fair competition. The financial loss caused by counterfeiting inevitably leads to savings, which, not least in Austria, also loses jobs. Product piracy has already cost more than 200 000 jobs in Europe, not to mention the loss of tax revenue for the State. In cooperation with the Austrian customs administration as a partner of the economy in the fight against counterfeiting, it contributes to the preservation of Austria's economic location and significantly reduces the financial loss for companies due to counterfeiting. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to approve this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22313	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22334	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with Mr Kogler that it is actually a happy coincidence that today's farewell speech by President Leo Maderthaner has come into the discussion, because we are used to deciding, as usual routinely and not with clear attention, a wealth of euro-adaptation laws, perhaps not aware of what historical quantum leap the introduction of the euro means in the context of European integration. That's where I want to say a word to you, dear Leo Madethaner. I think it was an uplifting feeling to see how, out of an emotionally positive mood, the appreciation of all political groups has been expressed here spontaneously. I think we've all felt that today a great political personality is saying goodbye to the stage of the High House. But all the friends who know you very well know that this is just a formal farewell. You will not be able to put your qualities that predestinate you as a politician, namely to be able to go to people who like to help people wherever help is needed, you cannot put these qualities at all. That is why you will always remain one of us, even without formal membership of this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I have said that it is actually good that at least at this moment we became aware of the farewell speech by Mr Maderthaner, which quantum leap in European integration is the introduction of the euro, I would like to quote in this context what wise people already – almost unimaginable! – have said half a century ago. For example, Jacques Rueff, the consultant to Charles de Gaulle on economic issues, said already in the 1950s: There will be a common Europe as a monetary union or not at all. This shows: This is not a question of monetary policy, it is an extremely political one. The European idea was always a peace idea, and peace idea means: We need a solid economic foundation. This is given by the internal market. But everyone has to be clear: Single market without a single currency is a torso, is a fragment. What is a single market in which it is possible for individual countries in this single market – and this has happened in the past – to devalue their currencies overnight for competitive reasons, so that businesses then suddenly stand there, and the lira, the Swedish crown is worth 10 or 15 percent less overnight? Only the common currency is an incredible political necessity for a small export-oriented country – every second job in Austria is somehow dependent on exports. The fact that you, dear Leo Madethaner, also made a contribution to this is to be counted high. I say now it's a challenge to all of us. Please, let's be aware of this: In nine months, the Schilling is no longer the legal means of payment, because on 28 November, the Schilling was the first one to become the legal tenderer. The history of schilling ends on February 22, 2002. I believe that we all as political decision-makers are incredibly required to explain to our citizens that this is not a monetary reform, but a currency changeover. That is where I believe we are called for, and I believe that, Mr Kogler, since our efforts to join the EU for the biggest communicative challenge we have, we also have here as Members, because it is a question of ultimately requiring the political acceptance of our citizens for this new currency. This is a huge challenge for us, but also in Germany, for the Germans since the end of World War II, the D-Mark was the symbol of stability, with us the Schilling was the symbol of economic stability. I would like to point out that we have a huge challenge here. It is not just a matter of adopting technical adaptation laws, it is a communicative challenge for us parliamentarians, and I am pleased that we have a broad consensus on these issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22395	The next speaker is Mr Müller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22416	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! High house! The European Council met on 24 and 25 February. In Berlin in March 1999, it noted, inter alia, that the system of EU own resources should be fair, transparent, cost-effective and based on criteria that best take account of the contribution capacity of each Member State, while respecting strict budgetary discipline. The adoption by the Member States of this new regulation, and hence the approval by the National Council, of some amendments to the existing own resources decision, has to be made. In principle, it should be noted that the EU cannot be indebted. The reason is that expenditure will first be fixed, and this will result in the amount of revenue. The first rules on own resources were adopted in 1970. They provided for agricultural levies, customs duties and a source of financing based on VAT. This system was fully implemented only from 1980 onwards, with a further development in 1985, 1988 and 1994 respectively. The 1994 own resources decision is the basis of the current own resources system, which is now to be replaced by the September 2000 decision. The following revenue represents the EU budget: Firstly, these are the traditional means, the agricultural tariffs. This is the first time that we have been able to find a A balance between world market prices and EU market prices. As is well known, EU agricultural prices are supported and therefore higher than world market prices. Secondly, it is the customs duties on imports from third countries. There is also a production and storage levy in the sugar sector, which is paid by the sugar factories. The current 10-percent collection fee for these traditional own resources is now retroactive by 1. January 2001 raised to 25 percent. Secondly, it concerns VAT. Each Member State calculates a VAT base, 1 percent of which has so far been paid. This percentage has now been reduced to 0.75% for the EU countries for 2002 and 2003 and further to 0.5% from 2004. The reason for this reduction is that the tax calculation regarding the VAT system is not considered entirely fair. The poorer member countries are now benefiting from this weakening. The gross social product is then used. This is the basis for further own resources calculation. In summary, I agree with the conclusion that the two changes – increasing the retention of traditional resources from 10 to 25 percent and reducing the VAT base calculation from currently 1 percent to 0.75 and, subsequently, 0.5 percent – bring benefits to our state. An even greater advantage for Austria is the change – simply expressed – of England's discount. This special scheme for the United Kingdom dates back to 1985. On the basis of the fact that Britain was a large net payer who had almost no return flows from the EU, the UK rebate was negotiated at the time. This country will receive two thirds of the net payments. In 2001, these reimbursements amounted to 5.2 billion euros. This reimbursement is, of course, missing in the EU budget and the other 14 Member States, with Germany holding only two thirds of its own share. Through a very skillful negotiating mandate from our representatives in the EU, led by Mrs Mag. Peter stood, can now be presented a very good result for Austria. The countries of Austria, Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands will be in the first place. In January 2002, only 25 percent of the previous payments were required to be made. For the next four years, that's a few billion schillings. Dear ladies and gentlemen! At its meeting on 16 February, the Financial Committee adopted this Government proposal. ==References====External links== It decided unanimously to recommend to the National Council the approval of the conclusion of the present State Treaty. I would now like to ask you to approve this government proposal. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22470	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mühlbachler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22492	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about the introduction of the euro, we are constantly talking about an increasing dynamic in the economy. But I am missing an aspect or a way of thinking. I believe that the introduction of the euro will also bring about a very serious political dynamic within the EU countries. Now, if I ask you: If 20 000 Italian lire are involved in family aid, or if 1 000 Swedish kroners are few in family aid, you will certainly not be able to answer me from the stand. Imagine, starting at 1. January of next year all these benefits will be comparable! It is quite surprising that this has not been more complaintd so far, because we have, of course, comparisons in many other areas, such as metrics, when it comes to quantities and qualities, but we do not have comparisons when it comes to state services. This is certainly an aspect that will bring a tremendous dynamic into the policies of the EU countries; I am convinced of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to comment on another thing, namely on the 4th. Customs law Enforcement Act Novelle. This novel brings the customs duty closer to the customer. Without a doubt, it is partly associated with higher costs, and I believe that this cost adjustment is partly an adjustment of administrative costs to actual costs. On the whole, however, I believe that this innovation shows that the government is ready to take up the administrative reform. I am aware that this reform is a step in the right direction and that even more needs to be done, for example in the direction of an own judicial agency. This would certainly be an essential reform. I am convinced that this reform will be achieved in the near future due to the efforts of this government. I hope, however, that when it comes to reform decisions, the opposition parties will not simply take a stand against it, but will be able to recognize that any reform – and if it has been so long in mind – has been discussed for so long. That is why I also call for a reform work to be measured only when it has proved successful in practice. I believe that many criticism points, which have already been put forward for major reform, are not justified because it will prove in practice that the population can live well with these reforms and will also accept them very well. I'm thinking about child care. This will be a family-political reform which will lead to ad absurdum very much of all that has been criticised here. [[Abg. Edler:... collect!]] I am convinced that it is a measure that will also show the population how strongly to act this government is ready.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22535	The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22570	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! One could be under the motto "It has already been said everything, just not of me" the speech has already ended again, because in fact a lot of right words have been said. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (demonstrative applause donating) Yes!]] I would just like to make one point, which Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has pointed out in a bold way, namely the information on the euro changeover. Ladies and gentlemen! Eighty-year-olds in Austria already have such a currency changeover several times. They know that the Schilling was introduced in 1924; until then we had the crown. In 1938 the Reichsmark, in 1945 the Schilling again, and with 1st. The euro is coming in January of next year. I would like to express my express thanks to the Federal Government and the Ministry of Finance for the positive documents that exist. These are manageable, very valuable, clear and understandable, making it easier for Austrian citizens to handle the new money. Ladies and gentlemen! I feel a little pain in that the smallest banknote is 5 euros. Perhaps it will be possible at some point in the European Central Bank to think of a smaller banknote. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Zweytick.]] It is not very practical that we then have to carry a plastic bag with cent and so on with us. But that will be the only thing that might be a little painful. An excellent brochure, "On the way to the euro cash", is also available from the Austrian National Bank, which is praised. It is very positively designed. Overall, the euro is very positive for the economy, for employment, for people. He is, as Mr Maderthaner has rightly said, a "hit". It's a success story. Ladies and gentlemen! The euro has great potential. It is up to us to actually exploit this potential.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22622	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22643	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! We are also discussing today the Council decision of 29. The system of own resources of the European Communities will be approved by the Commission on September 2000 and will be approved. I would like to draw your attention to an important point on today's agenda, which might deserve more interest because it is about honouring consistent Austrian policy. The European Council in Berlin has made guidelines for financing. It should be fair, transparent, cost-effective and designed to take the best possible account of the country's contribution capacity. The principle of strict budgetary discipline applies. This is a principle that many in this House are strange. The principle is: no debt; it does not mean no new debt, but simply: no debt. We have had to find this way back in Austria, and today we are saying that no new debt – because we know that this is the right policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With Agenda 2000, the EU has undertaken four important areas: the common agricultural policy, the concentration of structural policy, the instruments for preparing for accession, and the agenda should also provide scope for enlargement. This is financed by agricultural levies, the extent of which is increasing; the storage costs in the sugar industry are also eliminated. The tariffs are becoming less so because the agenda has increasingly reduced prices to world market levels. VAT from own resources becomes less because it was consciously wanted. In other words, the revenue corresponds to the gross social product, so they will increase the economic performance of the countries accordingly. In the future, the principle is: Those who can do something should also make their contribution. This means that 47 percent of the EU budget is already being removed after the economic performance of the countries and according to objective criteria. This money is used to finance different policies. It is particularly important to me as wine-fourths that the funds go into rural development, i.e. also into the environmental programmes, into compensatory payments and, in particular, in the preparation for enlargement. We know today how important it is that there are these compensation payments. It is impossible in all industrialized countries to operate agriculture in open competition with the world market. Remember: These compensation payments enable cheap food in Europe, cheap food in good quality in Europe, and in Austria with high environmental performance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Remember that in this European system we were able to maintain our special Austrian qualities. Remember that with 2 groschens on each semester, you contribute to the preservation of the environment and, with 30 grosses, contribute to each schnitzel so that our environment will be preserved. Much more all these high EU fundings, which we are always talking about, are not converted to the individual, we are talking about such marginal amounts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, a lot of money is also a lot of money, and we want to save. It is therefore very commendable that Commissioner Fischler and Federal Minister Molterer are laying the weight of funding in the EU on strengthening rural regions, the environment and economic strength. In the future, Austria will save itself enormous sums due to the new design of contributions. Although we save a lot of money, we get even more money back than before. The amazing thing is that in the future we will pay less for 1.3 billion schilling a year and will save 700 million more each in the next two years, because VAT rates have been changed. This means, for us, that over the next two years, the Minister of Finance has increased its scope by two billion schilling, and he urgently needs it to clean up the budget. The Secretary of State likes this, and we all like it. No more debt and yet do more for our country – that is the principle! We see, so does Molterer, so it is done, so it is good for us, for the environment, for the country, for the budget, just for everyone – bravo!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22721	The next speaker is Mr Zernatto. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22743	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, A very brief contribution from my side, which seems to me to be important, because it will point out that this federal government is serious not only with forward-looking new regulations, but above all with an administrative reform within the meaning of our federal system. This federal system – allow me to say that – has always held our dear friend Leo Madethaner very high. Since I am one of those who, as a country politician, have always had a lot to do with him, I would like to thank him for keeping not only this federalist Austria high – in the sense of hearing and acceptance also of suggestions from the countries – but also that he has always kept it high in his organization. This is a very special facet to your work – and for that I thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger:... "fully short"?]] Ladies and gentlemen! You may not have noticed: As far as these new regulations on the product piracy law are concerned, which are undoubtedly important and necessary, which ultimately give additional impetus and, above all, additional protection to Austria's economic location, the enforcement of the regulations under this law and the corresponding regulation is carried out by the customs office Arnoldstein in Germany. It is my first knowledge that the responsibility for a federal administration is being relocated in such a decentralized way. [[Abg. Böhacker: Federalism!]] I mean, this too is an example of "rerule". I would like to thank you very much, Mr State Secretary, but also the hope that this will not remain a day's fly. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22805	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 562 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – Again, I note the unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law in 590 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 603 of the Supplements. Mr Böhacker, Mr Stummvoll and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment or amendment which is in the form of an amendment. 1 refers. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, title and receipt as amended by the Government template, taking into account the amendment to the Committee's report 603 of the Supplements and taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Böhacker, Dr. Stummvoll and Comrades. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – I note the unanimity and therefore the acceptance. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is done unanimously again. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 567 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 589 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to a sign in this regard. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request made by the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force, decision of the Council of the European Union of 29 May. In September 2000 on the system of own resources of the European Communities in 554 of the Supplements to be approved. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I note the unanimity and therefore the acceptance. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 591 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to a sign in this regard. – That is unanimous again. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 27. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (352 and 352 of the Supplements): Federal Law on accompanying regulations on EMAS-V II (Environmental Management Act – UMG) (645 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22950	We're on the 27th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. As the first speaker, Mrs Mag. Ulrike Simazu word reported. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e22980	Mr President. Lord – not yet present – Federal Minister! High house! In view of the late hour, I will keep my speech a little shorter, which you will surely be pleased with. [[Demonstrative applause with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Thank you. The new motto of this Federal Government in environmental protection seems to be: Voluntary rather than regulatory measures. Instead of improving the environmental protection of farms, many important regulatory environmental requirements for farms that have a EMAS certificate will simply fall away in the future. In fact, this certificate does not mean any more than that an environmental management system has been introduced into operation. But there is no evidence or control that there is indeed sufficient environmental protection. I cannot personally understand why the new environmental management law, which we are discussing here, will be issued a personal ID in the future. We have already criticised this in detail in the past. In the future, for example, it will be possible to extend the capacity of companies without official approval. I would like to mention here as a negative example only the Salzburg airport, where this will be possible in the future. Administrative controls will be removed... – That's right! [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's not true!]] Mr President, I cannot imagine you knowing at all what this law means, let alone have read it or understood it at all. [[Abg. Böhacker: No excesses!]] So, please, look at it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't play like that! You're not so well off!]] Yes, yes, but neither do you! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Official controls are not carried out. Neighbors and arrants can hardly talk in environmental matters. Emission data of such plants no longer need to be recorded in the future. As a voluntary instrument, this EMAS certificate would be acceptable and desirable. But why, in the future, such privileges should suddenly be linked to the EMAS certificate, I am completely enigmatic, incomprehensible and unintelligible. In addition, this draft also entails disadvantages for the economy, which we have already mentioned several times. The law creates legal uncertainty. To date, the possession of an official authorisation has been a protection against injunctions. However, since the official approval of EMAS certified companies will only be necessary in exceptional cases, this authorisation and therefore the protection against injunctions will not be required. Ladies and gentlemen! This law is in line with your new black and blue environmental policy. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes!]] It is a reduction of voting rights and a reduction of environmental standards that we reject.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23070	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gerhard Fallent.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23102	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unlike my previous speaker, I can only confirm that we believe that we should give priority to voluntary measures. We believe that it is more willing to actually implement environmentally relevant measures. In 1993, the Council of the European Commission adopted the EMAS Regulation. This will regulate the voluntary participation of commercial enterprises in a Community environmental management and audit system. Every five years – or after five years – it is necessary to draw up experience and propose amendments to the Council. The result is precisely this EMAS II regulation, which is now in the form of an environmental management law for decision-making. The main elements of EMAS II are the extension of the scope to all organisations and sectors, the adoption of the international standard ISO 14001, thirdly the involvement of workers, fourthly the promotion of a uniform application of the Regulation in the Member States and fifthly the creation of a separate logo for better public visibility. National provisions should be adapted to implement the EMAS II Regulation at national level. Environmental management is this basis. The approval of environmental verifiers and the supervision of environmental verifiers are a priority of this Environmental Management Act. Further priorities are the management of a list of registered organisations, special administrative charges for the approval and supervision of environmental assessments, the registration of the auditing organisations and the simplification of the management of EMAS organisations. A very essential area and key point of this Regulation is the adoption of a consolidated approval decision. I believe that this is a very good, very important measure in the sense of administrative simplification. The district chief teams shall draw up a final consolidated notice from the sum of these decisions. In the future, it will be easier to implement appropriate investment changes and projects planned by companies. The positive thing about this is that the rights of the parties are preserved. This is very important because we believe that the participation of stakeholders in these processes is crucial. Ladies and gentlemen! This Regulation shall include voluntary measures, which continue to be granted by the parties' rights, to be able to submit a consolidated notice for future projects and to ensure that the financing is regulated. Short: It represents a good, round thing in the sense of economy and ecology. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23151	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23172	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! High house! I'm going to take a short look, too. In fact, the assessment that this law is a round thing is a false one. It is overwhelming as regards the exemption from State supervision for businesses subject to voluntary environmental management systems. I believe that there are, in principle, systematic limits: It is not possible to regulate everything with voluntary environmental systems. This has been overly regulated in this proposal. We have a differentiated position, and I would therefore also like to mention the positive points: In the old presentation of us as missing criticism, there is now a new concentration of responsibilities for the registration of environmental experts at the Ministry of the Environment. Secondly, there is a symmetry of legal protection: Against the registration in the list of locations, the environmental prosecutors may now also object as representatives of the environment. These are two positive points from our point of view. The negative points that force us to reject this draft are: Such a voluntary system stands and falls with the independence of environmentalists. Nothing has been improved on this point. It is still only about independence and integrity, which are very open, very sluggish terms. The "legal compliance" is not guaranteed from our point of view. It is only necessary to ensure that compliance is ensured, and not that compliance is guaranteed. Of course, the freedom of authorisation for plant changes is also overwhelming, in our opinion, especially because the criterion that there must be a reduction in resource consumption per unit of production or provided power can also have a negative impact on the entire output load in a specific case. In all, it is an environmental law that pursues more deregulation and environmental degradation than a fair balance. Furthermore, we do not understand the hurry, the reason why this regulation had to be implemented so quickly. EMAS II is just on the table, and there have also been many critical comments from the federal states. It is also significant that it was necessary to postpone several times because no agreement with the federal states could be reached. Therefore, with the reasons I have just put forward, because of this overwhelming deregulation and liberation, we are voting against this proposal, but we also recognise that there have at least been improvements in two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23212	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23234	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In Austria's environmental policy we have achieved a great deal with regulatory measures in recent years, almost decades, but we have now reached a point where we are at borders with regulatory measures, at the limits of the acceptance of consensus on plant permits and many other things, but also at the limits of the burden of public administration. In fact, as Mrs Colleague Sima has pointed out – but unfortunately she has said negatively – that we are making a very suitable attempt with this law to go another way, namely a path of voluntary agreements, a path of a partnership between the environment on the one hand and the administration and economy, not on the other hand, but as a further partner. We want to make an active practice of the principle of sustainability through partnership, because, as has been said, we are at some point at the limits of the feasibility of order policy. Mrs Glawischnig! If you automatically put deregulation, as you did, in the same way as environmental degradation, then it is simply nonsense – apologise. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Overwhelming!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: "Surpassing" she said!]] You've made it the same! They've equated deregulation with environmental degradation, and that's a nonsense! I'll repeat that again. This would in turn mean that regulation automatically leads to environmental protection. I claim: The opposite is the case, because if you are overregulated, this leads to defense behaviour, to circumvention behaviour among those concerned. We are in the happy situation that more and more businesses are willing to voluntarily submit to a certification that is not a minor but a huge burden on the companies. They do so voluntarily and, in return, they deserve a certain degree of confidence to be given to them by exempting them from certain reporting obligations, from certain checks by refraining from administrative penalties in the case of luggage cases, and in some cases also granting them the freedom of authorisation for plant changes. I mean, companies that take on certification deserve this trust and don't deserve undifferentiated criticism as it came from you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23295	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23317	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced period of time, in the near future: I think the experience shows that certification in the environmental field – and not only in the environmental field! – is a highly attractive, modern instrument. Companies voluntarily meet these higher requirements and thus achieve greater legal certainty. Finally, this also gives more security to the neighbors for the other parties involved. For the companies the certification is an additional marketing argument and so on. Mrs Glavischnig! If certification is recognised as the right instrument, and I assume that it is necessary for the companies to be able to carry out the certification in a reasonable way. That is why this law also provides administrative simplifications. Secondly, it is also important to increase the incentive to actually undergo certification, and that is a new path that we are taking. The additional incentive is that in the future, businesses will be able to expect less administrative burden because they are putting themselves at the risk of certification. So this is a communicating vessel, where no side is overturned. Thus, if a company takes on responsibility itself, it can at the same time relieve itself of government administrative activities. I mean, this is a very modern thought, and I am therefore grateful that this law can be passed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23347	The next speaker is Mr Rainer Wimmer.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23371	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As an opposition, we see the situation in connection with the Environmental Management Act in a slightly different way. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Just because you're opposition?]] This Environmental Management Act is a good example of the importance of environmental policy for the Federal Government. It is a classic example of how to implement massive industrial facilitation at the expense of the environment. It also looks as if at present only the interests of the economy, the Federal Chamber of Commerce and the Industrial Association, which shape Austrian environmental policy – and what this means, we can already imagine. Ladies and gentlemen! A number of these reliefs have already been mentioned. I would like to save myself, in view of the already advanced time, to list these, but what these massive reliefs have to do with offensive environmental protection, Mr Federal Minister, you must explain this to us. In the review process, there was a great deal of criticism, particularly by the countries that expressed concerns, because this environmental seal is also delegated to companies in accordance with EMAS. In this context, the question of liability is absolutely unexplained, not least because of the lack of a suitable instrument to date: We don't have an environmental law to this day. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Finally, I would like to say: Today, I do not think it is a good day for Austrian environmental policy. This template significantly deteriorates our existing standards. For this sad spectacle you have to take responsibility alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23410	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23431	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Today's debate strengthens my joy at the fact that not red and green have the say in this House, but a black and blue government has just re-ruled and made deregulation possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] In the context of the UMG, the implementation of an EU directive, namely that of EMAS II, after further work has been carried out on EMAS I and improvements have been made, arguments against free movement of persons and regulatory measures that you always want and a deregulation is clearly not in question at all for you. I consider it inadmissible when arguments are put forward such as: Salzburg Airport will then be expanded, and there is no longer a need for a regulatory procedure. – Not to mention, because it looks like the EIA law is still setting thresholds for a EIA procedure to be initiated when these thresholds are exceeded. Companies, organisations wishing to make a meaningful extension during the operation, have the opportunity to identify them as certified companies, as certified organisations, and to minimise administrative burdens. It is simply not true that standards are reduced; technical standards must be maintained. I am glad that this favourable administrative simplification comes about and, above all, a reduction in the timeframes. Our businesses will thank us. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is happening in this context is by no means at the expense of the environment. We are only taking a new path here and making a deregulation. I think the voluntary certification is a good thing. Of course, authorities may carry out checks on certified establishments listed in the list, and they will also carry out those inspections. There is no objection to the fact that a registered and audited expert is making an assessment if there is an administrative simplification. We therefore welcome this law and will, of course, agree with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23486	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 645 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill. – This was decided by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal at third reading too, to give a sign. . I note that the proposal was also decided by a majority in third reading. 28. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (553 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Immissions Protection Act Air and repealing the Smog Alarm Act (646 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23532	In this way we reach the 28th. Agenda item. There is no need for oral reporting. First speaker is Mr Heinzl. He's got the floor. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23559	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The Ministerial Draft to amend the Immission Protection Act Air was a good approach to improving air quality standards. However, the government template already looks at the influence of the Minister of Economic Affairs and the ex-Umweltminister Bartenstein on the setting of limit values. In particular, I would like to highlight the limit values for nitrogen oxide, which were loosened by IG-L's adoption in 1997 under the Minister for Industry and the Environment Bartenstein. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the permissible half-hour average, no permissible daily mean value was established, although the Austrian Academy of Sciences has already pointed out that repeated peak loads of nitrogen oxide reduce resistance to infections. – This daily mean value was included in the ministerial draft, but it is no longer to be found in the government template. As a whole, the government template would nevertheless have the potential for the sustainable improvement of Austrian air quality, but this potential would also have been the existing IG-L together with the Smog Alarm Act if the existing IG-L had not been dead right since the In-Power-Treten in 1997, for example in Austria were measured repeatedly in the Linz, Salzburg, Graz, Innsbruck and Vienna agglomerations above the Immission limit values for nitrogen oxide and dust. Even more drastic, ladies and gentlemen, is the situation regarding the respiratory ozone: The target value for ozone was exceeded in 1999 even in all 110 measuring points. In the so-called clean air areas of the Middle and High Mountains, where the recovery-seeking population supposedly wants to breathe healthy, fresh air, high ozone concentrations should be observed. The fact that these ozone peaks in the clean air areas are caused by nitrogen oxide cargoes from the agglomerations is also scientifically secured. Ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with § 10 of the IG-L 1997 the head of state has to adopt catalogues of measures by means of regulations on the basis of the status surveys. Despite the above-mentioned excesses, despite the health threat to the population, no country captain and no country head woman has so far adopted a catalogue of measures or a corresponding regulation in accordance with the IG-L. In a parliamentary question, I asked you, Mr Federal Minister, if you are willing to give instructions to the Heads of State or Government if it is not possible to draw up appropriate catalogues of measures by the end of the year. – Your answer was essentially abominable: You will not give instructions to create catalogues of measures, but you want us to agree with social democrats of a legislative amendment, which, among other things, lifts the Smog Alarm Act and withdraws the existing Smog Alarm plans from the legal basis. Federal Minister! I quote from your answer to the question on air policy: "Until now, no federal government has created a catalogue of measures. In principle, this is justified by the considerable time needed for the preparation of a status survey, the collection of opinions and the subsequent preparation of a catalogue of measures. Furthermore, appropriate measures often also require significant changes, which require careful planning and involvement of those concerned and therefore cannot be implemented in the shortest time." - Quote. Federal Minister! In the Austrian federal states, air quality measuring networks have existed for many years. You do not want to agree that the overrun of the IG-L 1997 limit values has only hit the competent authorities in the federal states in the last few weeks and months since its in-force pace almost four years ago, and since then all the forces have already concentrated on solving this problem. It is rather the impression that the errors of many industrial enterprises are being overlooked. It gives the impression that you do not want to catch up on the economic officials and the competent state governments, Minister of State. Federal Minister! I demand In this context, the Commission is once again calling upon the national leaders to issue the instructions, to adopt immediate catalogues of measures to improve air quality. Since you have not yet been willing or able to do so, we Socialists cannot give our consent to the amendment of the IG-L and the abolition of the Smog Alarm Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23611	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Herbert Graf. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23632	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heinzl! I would like to point out that your argument for rejecting the law is quite different from that presented to your colleague Sima in committee. I regret that we cannot find a common solution. [[Call the SPÖ: That's not true!]] That's right. [[Call the SPÖ: That's not true! You didn't watch!]] I take note that we do not read through laws and that we do not watch. However, I may refer to the "parliamentary correspondence" No. 405 refer to the findings made by Mrs Ulrike Sima, who are precisely diametrically opposed to the statements you have just made. I'll have to hold the order once. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Disunity in your own group! That's what you're desavowing!]] Please, read it through! I read it through. By the way, you said that the Federal Minister and the Federal Government had surrendered to the economy. That's not true either. Ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you: This required draft law is the implementation of a subsidiary directive of the EU, which we have proposed until 19. to ensure the appropriate implementation of the limit values of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, lead particles, carbon monoxide and benzene. They regret the failure of the Smog Alarm Act. – However, this is particularly positive about the fact that in this new law we are adding the alarm thresholds for sulphur dioxide as well as for nitrogen dioxide and therefore no longer need the Smog Alarm Act. [[Abg. Heinzl: What about the daily mean?]] I'll take a point of order. – This is a special advantage, and the Federal Government, the Federal Minister, once again, is particularly grateful for the fact that legislation is being brought into effect, that, if it is no longer necessary, a law is repealed as a result of the adoption of a new one. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, it is also a particular concern of this law to introduce a limit value measurement of dust for the first time. You mentioned the dust concentration in Linz before. [[Abg. Heinzl: Not only in Linz, also in Vienna, Innsbruck and Graz!]] You know very well that the dust can only be measured by a galvanometric method. For the first time, a size-selecting method was used – the PM10 value – so that there can be a dust concentration measurement for all values even in mobile stations. We all know, and it has also been found by the EU that the very dust is that which has the greatest impact on human health. [[Abg. Heinzl: What about the daily mean?]] You can read this in the report, Mr Cot. You said earlier that we wouldn't read the laws. Read it once, then see that the daily mean value can also be used for measurement. That's the special advantage. However, I do not want to focus on your Question Time, but rather on something special: The Standardisation Institute and the Technical Standards Committee for Heating have done a long-term preliminary work, beginning in 1992, when heating systems were first standardized in Austria and subsequently taken over by the European Standards Committee CEN. This is the basis for a general standardisation under this new law. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only quote the words of Mr Gaál over and over again: When it comes to a general issue, I regret that this is a party-political hack. Please read the bill again! You will see that there are only benefits for us and our health, and that is why I ask you to agree to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23784	The next Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23805	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am always ready to discuss factually and openly about certain legislative templates and to put the positive and negative points into the light. But that the law has only health benefits, that's just not right, that's all over the thing. [[Call to the liberals: But that is true!]] No, no, no, Once again, as a punishment, I will briefly present the history of this law, so that we can see what has really happened. There has been a relatively ambitious draft of the Ministry of the Environment, which has been massively watered and modified by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I've already reported on this in committee. But the opinion of the Ministry of Economic Affairs was so remarkable that it is worth being presented here again. Above all, it must be borne in mind that this has been written by a former Environment Minister in his responsibility. It is allegation that this proposal goes beyond purely implementing the EU Framework Directive and that the suspicion is that Austria should be presented as an environmental model country in the field of air policy within the European Union. In my opinion, the criticism of this by the Ministry of Economic Affairs is really absurd. But it's getting even worse. There is a remarkable reference to Kyoto – I quote: The process of standardising requirements on air quality in Austria, not required by EU law, without even considering its feasibility – in this respect certain parallels to the Kyoto process arise for the objective viewer – cannot be blamed by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. What does that mean? – This means that the Ministry of Economic Affairs considers Kyoto to be unrealistic, does not consider it feasible and thus leaves the consensus of Austrian climate protection policy. That's where I see some parallels to George Bush, but not to the environmental model country. This statement is really incredible! Mr. Graf! I do not understand that you can pass the fact that this proposal – this IG-L is already such an invading law – has been so massively watered down and the demands of the Ministry of Economic Affairs – I mention once again the three most important: Limit deviation by tolerance margins, overrun possibilities and later in-force step of the law, withdrawal of daily mean values for nitrogen oxides – all have been implemented. VCÖ criticizes this law – I quote: [[Abg. Böhacker: Who is this? I've never heard that before!]] Health protection limit values lowered. The limit values for air pollution under the Immission Protection Act are, in part, significantly above the recommendations of the Academy of Sciences. So it is a rather sad chapter that we have to deal with today. I often feel sorry for the environmental sector's proposals, which are then put together by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It is illegal to say that, unless the Ministry of Economic Affairs's right, as the colleague has made head of the committee, is wrong, because there is a certain basic consensus, and this basic consensus is also: Not everything that is environmental protection harms the economy. On the contrary! Especially in the field of air policy, Austria's economy has benefited greatly from this in the export of technology. This becomes clear when we look at the facilities in our neighbouring countries. In this context, Austrian companies have received large orders. They have benefited from the fact that we were a model country in this area. With this template, however, this path will leave. That is why we will not agree to this proposal, Mr Graf.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23868	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23889	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is so different, Mrs Glawischnig: One thinks that it would be very bad, everything would be bad, the other say, it's a relatively modern law. I think it's such a thing. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glawischnig, you cannot and must not believe that there is also only one politician in Austria, the United States or the EU who today seriously questions the issue of air quality or environmental quality. With this law, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing nothing but adapting to the EU framework directives the limit values that already exist – in part, we have very strict limit values directives. Where in part nationally stricter directives exist, these nationally stricter directives will remain. I think that's good and right. It's modern. Ladies and gentlemen! I am trying to see the whole thing from the point of view of the citizen, who is very often devoid of the numeration of numbers and the various chemical names, and in fact does not know himself. We politicians have a relatively high responsibility, and that is why we define limit values. We simply want to give relief and assistance to the ignorant and uninformed citizen, and with these limit values we have pursued responsible policies. Ladies and gentlemen! We are moving at European level and at European standards, and I do not want to allow this to be permanently reduced. We're not doing anything good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You will have to allow that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am going to be relatively brief because most of it has already been said. But one thing is already very important to me, because not only is the pollution in the air outside the rooms, but it also has a very important impact on the well-being and health of people within the rooms. There is an investigation by the Hygiene Institute in Graz, which carried out air measurements in five different Graz schools, and terrifying values were found there. Mr Minister, I think it is particularly important that schools and institutions be informed of the importance of having a fresh room air. Mr President. I can also speak to you. The room air here in the house is not always the best. I would like us to take care of fresh air here as well. I think that would be good for all of us. Perhaps it would be possible to bring about a change in the ventilation system here in the next few days. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, namely the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on European Union. Oberhaidinger.]] If all the forces in the house want to do so, you could be as successful as our Environment Minister is. – I thank you very much for the constant effort.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23939	The next speaker is the Federal Minister. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e23960	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to briefly comment on some of the questions raised so far. First: This Immission Law Air is a progress. One can be ever more divided about the importance of progress, but it is definitely an improvement in the sense of an environmental policy compared to the current legal situation. Why? – Because with this Immissions Act air we introduce a new limit value for fine dust, for example, as an annual-respective daily mean value. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that this is one of the important issues, because the issue of dust pollution associated with the health risk is one of the major issues. Secondly, With this law, on the one hand, we hold our standards, on the other hand, we go beyond the standards in the EU directive, where we think it is right. You know that this is about the question of the annual averages for NO2, where we have set out in law 30 Mygrams, while the EU provides 40 Mygrams. On the question you raised of the daily mean value for NO2: This is contained in Appendix 5 to the Act, but not as a limit value, but as a target value. This also gives the legislator a very clear signal, which goal he considers to be the right one in this context. On the question of ozone also an open word: I have already told you in the Committee that we have therefore not incorporated Ozone into this directive because we want to wait for the Ozone subsidiary directive of the European Union and, on the other hand, for the directive on national emission limits. We are waiting for these directives to be adopted in this year and we are going to make the appropriate adaptation legal. On the question raised here, I can only repeat what I said in the Committee: that we will also address national leaders in writing on the basis of this discussion in the Committee on the issue of the implementation of the law orders. The last sentence – and this is important to me – is: With this law we can also put a law, namely the Smog Alarm Act, out of force. This is one of the few acts that, with the creation of a law at the same time, lift another one, ladies and gentlemen, because our air policy has been so successful in recent years that we simply do not need this law anymore. That can also be said clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24011	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24033	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The negotiations are largely a European requirement and, in principle, a useful and necessary one. However, in the sense of a forward-looking environmental policy, it is regrettable that this previously quoted change in the government template has been made compared to the ministerial draft. We Socialists do not support the newly introduced tolerance margins, as they allow limit values to be exceeded, which means nothing but a limit value increase. We do not support that you replace specific limit values with target values. Of course, the interpretation of this template will vary depending on whether they perform government fractions or opposition fractions. I believe, however, that the euphoric representation of the government groups is exaggerated, that it is rather just a beautiful speech or a not quite fair representation. If members of the government think that the number of overruns is strictly limited, then that is correct, but nothing changes the fact that limit values can be exceeded, which you admit yourself and unfortunately also allow quite consciously. In any case, we Socialists demand that responsible environmental policy improve the situation and not the elimination of limit values. Environmental policy must set high environmental targets and must not go beyond already established standards. That is what you have done with this proposal, and therefore we will not give this draft our consent either. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: No surprise!]] In connection with this novel, however, you are faced with a number of problems. The problems with the countries have already been addressed by Mr Heinzl; I can therefore save myself. Even in the near-floor ozone, much more will be needed than is provided for in this novelle. This problem will not be solved by national alone. That is why it will also require European solutions, and I should like to ask for your forced commitment, Mr Federal Minister. Another vulnerability is the missing measuring points for benzene and lead. To sum up, I can say that in recent years air quality has improved, but there is still a great need for action, especially in transport and near ground ozone, which you do not meet with this presentation. That is why I should like to table an amendment to increase the quality of the Committee's report. This is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can invite you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24252	This amendment is in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Hornek. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24277	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! ==References== In April 1998, the Immissions Protection Act (Immissions Protection Act) applies in Austria, a law on the permanent protection of human health, to protect animals, plants, culture and property from harmful environmental influences. The EU has now adopted a subsidiary directive on the Air Quality Framework Directive, with limit values for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, particulates, lead, carbon monoxide and benzene, which Member States have adopted until 19. It is necessary to implement it in July 2001. This makes it necessary to change the Immission Protection Act's air to which the Federal Government has now presented a draft. As the last Immission Protection Report shows, Austria is a pioneer in air pollution due to its intensive efforts. A significant 90 percent reduction has been achieved over the last ten years, particularly in the case of pollutant sulphur dioxide. Austria is therefore one of the best countries in Europe. The efforts of our neighbours to improve air quality have contributed to this. This makes it clear that although Austria can go ahead as a pioneer and a model leader, a positive result is only possible if international standards of air pollution are also observed by our neighbouring countries. With the amendment to the Air Re Content Act, the applicable limit values for lead and benzene are tightened. For small dust particles – these have a diameter of less than 10 micrometers – a limit value is introduced for the first time. This dust, according to the European Commission's calculations, is the air pollutant, which by far has the greatest impact on human health, and I note in this regard the greatest need for action for the next time. These particles need to be reduced in the future. In this area too, Austria can offer answers within a short time. The use of biodiesel in relation to the conventional diesel fuel reduces the pollutant load, in impressive dimensions. Biodiesel emits 46 percent less hydrocarbons, 52 percent less soot and 36 percent less particles. Biodiesel releases only that CO2 which was previously absorbed from the atmosphere by the plant when it was burned. Thus, the CO2 cycle is closed. Biofuel is a renewable raw material derived mainly from vegetable oils. Even the remaining press cake is the highest quality protein feed and thus compensates for soya import. Through the use of multi-fuel engines – a term that will have to be remembered for the future – it would be easy to use plant oils directly as fuel without esterification. This would mean: on the one hand, a drastic reduction in air pollutants from the motor sector, on the other hand, jobs for rural areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Mr President, I am already practicing this. This government template not only meets EU requirements, but goes far beyond these in some areas, thus contributing to the massive emphasis on Austria's pioneering role in the air quality. In particular, with regard to the need for re-examination of our Neighbor countries in the field of air conservation have a great opportunity to use the Austrian know-how and technology advantage for both sides. That is why I would ask you to give your consent to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24340	No further words are available. The debate is closed. We therefore come to the votes. We shall vote on the draft law in 646 of the Supplements. To this end, Mr Ing. Kaipel tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the part of this amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Ing. That is why Mr Kaipel has tabled an amendment which refers to Article I.Z.19 Appendix 1 and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment to give a sign on this point. – The application does not find a majority. That is why we shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report to give a positive signal. – I note that this is accepted by the majority. I shall also vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to this to give a sign of confirmation. I note that this was decided by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. . I note that the proposal was adopted by a majority in third reading. That is the point of the agenda. 29. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 435/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, ing. Gerhard Fallentund comrades concerning a federal law with which the Old Burden Rehabilitation Act, BGBl. No. 299/1989, amended (647 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24417	We'll get to the 29th. Agenda item. The first speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. He gets the word for about 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24442	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced period, I want to make it very short. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm well-known for keeping notices of this kind. I thank you for the prelude applause and the expressions of thanks. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, only the most important points that have already been raised in the Committee. Mr Federal Minister, experts let us know, in connection with the change in the ALSAG, that over the next 20 years, we will have to spend around 50 billion schillings in order to be able to clean them up for some 2,500 old loads, which are at least some of the already secured findings. Although we know that this amendment should or will only extend a change already made, we are still of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, that the path taken by the government parties is not a target, is too unchallenged and, in total, too short. We therefore call on the Federal Government, in the resolution already submitted to the Committee, to submit a long-term plan to ensure the financing of the old-age renovation in Austria by 31.12.2001. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that would be in the interests of all, and I should like to ask you to support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24486	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Weinmeier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24507	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said, this proposal for a better financial management of major rehabilitation cases in the area of old-age rehabilitation, such as the fishing landfill in the Mitterrdorf valley, is a very important concern for us. So far, the funds for replacements for the old-age rehabilitation had to be budgeted at the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs. With the amendment of the Federal Ministry's Law last year, this competence has become the Federal Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, including the financing of the replacements in the field of old-age rehabilitation. The implementation of such measures requires considerable financial resources for some large deposits, and it was therefore necessary to make this financing on a different legal basis by amending the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. Today's decision will enable the necessary funds to be made available for the financing of replacement operations of up to 22 million ye and around 300 million schilling for 2001 and 2002 from the Old Load Rehabilitation Fund. When I think of the infinite history of the fishing dump in the Mitterendorfer Senke in Lower Austria, I must say that I am glad that there is a positive development here. Ladies and gentlemen! We are committed to the need for the renovation of old loads and the created financing model for the contribution of old loads. The resources spent are indeed considerable. I only mention that projects of 1.9 billion Schilling have been approved at the last meeting of the Old Load Commission, with a funding of 986 million Schilling. We therefore do not think that the SPÖ's request, which has been put forward to rethink the old load renovation, is necessary, as the old load renovation in Austria is progressing gradually and well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24547	The next speaker is Mr Johann Loos. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24571	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! As part of the refurbishment of the fishing landfill, it is practically necessary that it is not possible, because of the current legal situation, to take over the costs for experts as well. We all know, in practice, how cost-intensive the recovery of old loads is. I was therefore disturbed at the Committee meeting that it was said that there was practically nothing going on here. I have looked at how this has developed in recent years, and I can give you some figures: In 1990 about 142 million schillings were spent on the old- load renovation, in 1997 – a number in between – it was around 450 million schilling, and in the 2002 budget we have already planned a sum of 1.41 billion schillings for the old-load renovation. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that the local authorities – the countries, the municipalities – are responsible for this, but if the federal government does not cover these local authorities, it is virtually impossible to restore the old burden. It is therefore also so necessary that we decide on this amendment today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to give an example from my own experience: We have, as you know, in the National Park Neusiedler See/Seewinkel, a beautiful area – if you haven't booked a holiday this year, I would advise you to come there – three special old loads. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] These include three municipalities with a total of 6,000 inhabitants. The cost of eliminating these three old loads, which lie in the middle of the National Park, is about 55 million schilling, and this amount must be paid by us. If not the federal government, the country of Burgenland and the environmental service Burgenland, which fund us 85 percent of it, so that only 15 percent remain for the municipalities, we could not have rehabilitated it. Now, with the support of the federal government, with the support of the country, we can bring these old loads away with the support of the Burgenlander Küllverband, ladies and gentlemen. A practical contribution will therefore be made. That is why we will, of course, be happy to give our approval to this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24623	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24645	Ladies and gentlemen! The question of old-age rehabilitation and, above all, the major problem of securing the financial resources for this old-age rehabilitation were not for nothing in the Committee on the Environment, because one thing – and this truth has to be clearly stated here – is clear: If a country, if a local authority does not have the opportunity to make replacements in order to reorganise a endangered area, then it will be impossible at the end of the day to achieve reorganisation in the appropriate time, because it often turns out that players prefer to play cat and mouse with the authority over years rather than take the appropriate steps. I therefore think that this is an essential step, especially when it comes to dealing with the question of the assessment. Especially when ordering experts and developing the various rehabilitation concepts, it is crucial that the necessary financial resources are available for this purpose. It means the cleaning up of sins, the old burdens from the past a financial huge expenditure even over the next few years, and it is actually a grief that in recent years, in which it would have been necessary and in which the financial situation of the communities has not been as bad as it is now in many cases, far too little has happened in this sector, that far too few reorganisation orders have occurred, because of the often long legal disputes because of money and has not moved at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To the Old Load Rehabilitation Act itself: We will vote in favour of this regulation, which is in place here for the decision. I think this is an important step that could perhaps bring some acceleration to the process of rehabilitation. But I would like to add my ceterum censeo to the law in itself: I think that the promotion of residues of combustion in this area is a very negative development, and I think that it is an absolute failure in environmental policy because it creates a procedural monopoly for the combustion which I cannot accept. First of all, it will cost consumers who produce waste a huge amount of money, second, it will make it impossible or extremely difficult for process competition when it comes to having to choose between biological-mechanical treatment methods and combustion. Just as the legal situation is at present, it is practically a large wide highway towards combustion, and as long as a procedure has the monopoly, of course, developments in these procedures are also extremely inhibited. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! If you want to put a good act for the environment in the Old Load Rehabilitation Act in the field of contributions, then change this advantage, throw it out! This will enable you to compete with the process, allowing new techniques that can be used as well and as efficiently as possible, and which, especially in some areas, when it comes to landfill and its financing, would be much better used than the current regulation. Take a heart and defend yourself against the burning lobby! That's the ceterum censeo I can't save you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24708	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 647 of the supplements. I am seeking the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who give the draft law in 647 of the Supplements for a sign in this regard. – This was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. This time again, in the event of approval, I ask for a sign on this matter. . I note that the draft law was also adopted by majority vote in third reading. 30. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Ulrike Simaund Comrades concerning the introduction of a disposable levy (648 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24760	That's how we get to the 30th. Agenda item. I do not have a wish for reporting. I am therefore immediately entering the debate. The first speaker is Mr Karl Dobnigg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24790	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For many decades, Austria has been regarded as the environmental model country in Europe and especially in the European Union. Austria took the lead in environmental protection in many areas, for example in the anti-CFC policy or in the waste management sector. This position has been in acute danger since the Federal Government took office. Our country is on the best way to get off the top line in the middle of European environmental policy. Environmental protection has been degraded to an annex in Austria. Federal Minister! With your policy, you clearly prove that the issue of environment and its protection is only a daunting duty and you would rather be only agriculture ministers. The negative effects of your non-existent environmental policy have already been discussed by the European Commission itself. For example, Swedish Commissioner for the Environment Margot Wallström criticised home environmental policy in the recent Austrian visit. In addition to the missing policy of fighting greenhouse gas production, Austrian waste management policy was at the heart of its criticism. From my point of view, this was entirely justified, for example, the new beverage target regulation is a clear step back in the field of environmental protection. Instead of redesigning the packaging regulation in such a way that at last the course goes towards protecting the environment, you, Mr. Federal Minister, cut down the legal requirements for waste prevention and removed the barriers for companies against the one-way flood. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How should it go?]] Instead of concrete measures such as a one-way tax, voluntary agreements are being made – with the result of opening door and door for disposable packaging. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: tax?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How much taxes?]] This is a declaration of bankruptcy for the previous policy of packaging and waste prevention... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How much taxes?]] I'll be right there. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How high should it be, the tax?]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] This is particularly true in the light of the fact that the share of surplus-way drinks has fallen from 80 per cent in the mid-1980s to around 50 per cent at the present time. Now the original individual targets are replaced by a recovery rate of 80 percent across all packaging materials, and this is a clear advantage of disposable packaging. The original objective of the packaging target regulation, to increase the recovery rates gradually, is not only missing but is wrong. In order to establish as complete facts as possible regarding the displacement of multi-way systems in the packaging sector, the first quota check should also be carried out only in 2004. However, the summit of the environmental downturn is the fact that the dull instrument of voluntaryness for the economy, which has already proved to be inadequate in the past, is also being applied in this Regulation. There will be no sanctions in the future either. Once again, this Federal Government is entirely committed to the side of companies and industry and is entirely in line with the interests of trade. Unfortunately, the needs for sustainable waste prevention policies, after strengthening the multi-way systems – all the topics that are carried and supported by a large majority of the local population – are rejected here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] While a glass multi-way bottle can be re-filled up to 60 times and returned to the glass production at the end of its cycle, state-waste associations now count – and that is the irresponsible – up to a doubling of the volume of household waste. A consequence of this is increased costs for the communities and, of course, increased costs for our citizens. This is a negative example of the economy! The fact that things are going differently proves Denmark with its canning fee and corresponding environmental success. However, a corresponding regulation was also adopted in Germany by Minister for the Environment Trittin. However, because of the burden on consumers and the difficulty of managing them in the first place, the Socialist Group favours the introduction of a one-way levy. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How high?]] This disbursement as a useful steering instrument would have to be borne primarily by producers and trade. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How high, the tax?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How high?]] This would be a real and important step towards the polluter principle and the idea of producer responsibility with appropriate product design. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: How high, this tax?]] Mr. Federal Minister, I ask you: Free yourself from the hostages of industry, at last carry out a credible waste prevention and recovery policy! We from the opposition and many parts of the population would be willing to support you on this path. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Take the one-off charge! Letter They reaffirm the original multi-way quotas, which could lead to a change in the trend in the packaging area in favour of a higher share of the multi-way. Complete the voluntary agreement with the economy with effective sanctions. Show, Minister of the State, that environmental policy is not just a daunting duty for you, but a challenge to ensure a healthy and viable environment of future generations!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24961	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e24982	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I'm holding that SPÖ wants a new tax. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, that's right!]] However, it was not clearly stated how high it should be. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Higher!]] That's why we're still waiting for the formulation. It is only when it is made clear how high it should be that it can be debated. [[Abg. May. Prammer: No, you decided for yourself!]] I'll tell you: A burden on citizens on the basis of your proposal will certainly not come about under this Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that what you expect from trade is being re-washed into the public in the final effect and therefore is not to be realized. [[Abg. Oils: Go, please!]] A tax to be paid by trade will affect the price to be paid by the consumer in the final effect. That is to say, it is again an increase in the product price for the consumer. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Who pays now...?]] Trade will not swallow this tax. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: What do consumers pay for garbage charges...?]] Thirdly, because you, Mrs Glawischnig, will still come out and ask some questions, I would like to refer to a request from the 1. In June 2001, the Federal Minister provided excellent answers to all your questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25090	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25120	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, One could really discuss for a very long time what a reasonable solution is against the dilemma that we face in the area of beverage packaging with the absolute triumph of disposable plastic bottles. It is therefore our concern – and I believe it should be yours too – because for many people this is the expression of their environmental awareness and their environmental action, that they separate waste cleanly and that they buy high care in beverage packaging. We have had real concerns in recent years, and it was foreseeable that we could not achieve our goals and our quotas. What did the Minister of the Environment do? – We have also massively criticized this: He lowered the quotas; in return, there was a voluntary agreement with the economy. I would now like to explain, on the basis of this example, why there are intelligent agreements and why there are agreements that are critical – and this is such. For example, the German Minister for the Environment Trittin tries to agree with the nuclear companies in Germany that they do not import "dirty electricity" from Central and Eastern Europe – under quotation marks. In my view, this is a contractual agreement, which brings with it certain victims for the companies concerned, difficult to achieve and also has consequences. This is a contract, legally secured – the final product would be an intelligent agreement if it worked. However, that agreement, which the economy has concluded with the Ministry of the Environment, contains a single point on the subject of multi-way: The economy undertakes to provide sufficient multi-way packaging in the future. I ask you: Is this a solution to counter the victory of the disposable plastic bottle in any form? – I say quite clearly: No, no, no, What is to be done after the quotas have been missed, now to choose such a gay, nothing-saying formula that in no way constitutes a guideline for the economy? We have also strongly criticised the fact that this agreement did not involve consumer protection organisations and does not involve environmental organisations. That is why we have presented an alternative model for this area. Mr Schweitzer. It's not like there's no more loads at the moment. It is expected that there will be up to a billion additional burdens on the communities and that the communities will pass this on to their citizens about the garbage charges. So there will be problems, and there has been massive criticism from the federal states, also from Mr Landes-Umweltferenten Gorbach, also from Mrs Haubner from Upper Austria – this is also spoken in the direction of the liberals. This was not at all as critical as Mr Schweitzer does. This is an extremely controversial decision by the Minister for the Environment, which we strongly criticise. I believe that if we do not stop here in any form, we will have removed the multi-way systems from the shelves in 2004. This also destroys a lot of environmental awareness in the Austrian population. I ask you to think about it again. Perhaps we can imagine something more clumsy here than this comic voluntary, nothing-saying, boisterous, superfluous agreement between Federal Minister Molterer and President of the Chamber of Economics Leitl, which will really lead to nothing. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dobnigg.]] Finally, I would like to say: What annoyed me personally is that this regulation has been made on the basis of an investigation that is truly unique in scientific literature. It concludes that the one-way system is cheaper than the multi-way system, both ecologically and from other points of view. – This is truly unique and is based on many false assumptions. We will also take the opportunity to criticise this study, which has obviously influenced the decision in any form. This is an incredible work. Furthermore, in the "Standard" there has been an ad series of 500 000 S, in which exactly this statement – one way is better than a multi-way – has been advertised. I do not think that should be done as an environmental minister in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25185	The next speaker is Mr Hermann Gahr. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25209	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The increase in the number of disposable packaging in Austria presents new challenges for consumers and the economy – and above all for the drink producers and bottling agents. The purchasing behaviour in Austria has developed in recent years to the extent that the number of disposable packaging has increased and the number of multi-way packaging has decreased. The reasons for choosing disposable packaging are probably the convenience of consumers, but also the desired greater flexibility. Over the last few years, in line with the trend, beverage producers and trade have responded to consumer behaviour and invested in new filling plants and new logistics systems. It is actually curious that many citizens say that they prefer multi-way packaging, but that purchasing behaviour and collection quotas speak a different language. Despite intensive efforts in some areas it has not been possible to maintain the multi-way links. This applies, for example, to milk. For years they have tried to force the multi-way links in the glass, but the purchasing behaviour has nevertheless gone to the tetrapacking. Mineral water is filled in PET bottles throughout Europe for competition reasons. As a Tyrolean, I can see here that two well-known fillers had to switch to PET bottles in order not to disappear completely from the market. It is therefore difficult to place glass bottles on the market. How should policy react? – regulatory measures have their limits and are not a guarantee of success in this area. For this reason, the target regulation on packaging waste has been modernised and supplemented by a voluntary commitment by the economy. The ecological sensitivity of multi-way systems must be strengthened in the minds of the citizens. The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Head, Mr Fallent and Mr Colleagues, seeks to strengthen the objective information on the effectiveness of the matter. In addition, the aim is to call on drink consumers and trade to maintain the freedom of choice between multi-way and one-way systems. Forced action is not the right way. Citizens must recognise that the purchase of multi-way systems has ecological advantages. In this sense, I hope that the "one-way bomb" will not explode completely and that ecologically meaningful and economically acceptable multi-way systems can claim to be on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25253	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Weinmeier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25274	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glawischnig and Mrs Sima! Yes, I too am not satisfied with the current development, especially in the area of mineral water and fruit juices, where the consumer is increasingly less able to choose between disposable packaging and multi-way packaging. We also know from the disposal plants that they are increasingly complaining about full collection camps. In this context, however, I do not consider any new charges which, as my previous speakers said, would naturally have to pay to the consumer. It is likely that only one, namely the Minister of Finance, would be pleased about it, but the budgets would be extra burdened. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Have you ever considered this with the pledge system?]] I don't think I've got any deposit systems either. We know from the example of Sweden that then, in the East, immediately form organisations that will collect the cans and bottles there and transport them to the West in large-scale organizations in order to deposit the deposit there. That is why we are certainly against such charges. We believe in the reason of trade and that the trade will also see the rod put in the window. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Look, but don't do anything! That's the problem!]] Let us look at what trade will do in the next few years under the new packaging target regulation, which was adopted in December of last year. Let us give him the chance to comply with these voluntary agreements! But one thing I say quite clearly: Trade must know and be convinced that in 2004, when quotas are reviewed, these sanctions will actually exist – as the Federal Minister said in his reply to the question – and that there will be no more "back door". I would therefore ask you, Minister, to say this clearly and clearly to trade. Ladies and gentlemen! The joint request of the Coalition Parties shall be based on information, voluntary agreement and not on new charges. I would therefore ask you to give your consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25325	No one is reporting on this. That is why the debate is closed. No final word is required from the reporting pages. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 648 of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent to this, to give a sign on this matter. – The adoption of this report shall be by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee Report 648 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this resolution to give a sign on this. The resolution, which was annexed to the Committee's report, was adopted by a majority. (E 86.) 31. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the resolution 317/A (E) by Dr Eva Glawischnigand Comrades on an Austrian initiative for EU projects on the renovation of nuclear waste on the Kola peninsula and the Barents Sea (649 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25386	We arrive at the 31st. Agenda item. I do not have a wish for reporting, so we are going into the consultation. First speaker is Mrs Pepper. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25412	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Almost a year ago, exactly on 12. August 2000, a disaster has caused the public to cease. It was this the ruin of the Russian nuclear submarine "Kursk", which has sunk with 118 crews in about 100 meters depth. Not only was the human suffering of great importance – families have lost their fathers, wives their husbands and mothers their sons – but there was also an unnecessary theater for the help of the possible crew members. According to records and farewell letters, 23 men of the crew had initially survived the disaster. Furthermore, the catastrophic abuses in the disposal of the no longer used Russian nuclear submarine fleet became known. It is probably around 50 to 70 nuclear submarines, which still have highly active nuclear fuel on board and are slowly rusting ahead of themselves. Tens of thousands of nuclear fuel rods are stored directly in the Arctic's water – inconceivable what can happen there! It is also unimaginable for me to deal with such dangerous material so improperly and carelessly. Some 30,000 cubic meters of radioactive waste should be stored in the Kola Peninsula under the open sky. Not only the area is environmentally impaired, but also the fish waters there are increasingly affected. It must therefore be our duty to make demands. Above all, it would be very important that the scrapping of nuclear submarines should only be carried out under international supervision or that a general scrapping of this weapon system be prohibited for environmental reasons. Federal Minister! We therefore call on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to work with the institutions of the European Union, together with the particularly concerned and committed Scandinavian Member States, to develop and, of course, to carry out a comprehensive damage analysis in the Barents Sea and the Kola Peninsula together with Russia. It would also be useful to agree on a common problem-solving strategy at the highest level between the European Union and Russia. My group will therefore support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25459	The next speaker is Mr Schweitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25480	Mr President. There is nothing to add to Mrs Pfeiffer's statement as far as this is concerned. We too will agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25510	The next speaker is Mr Matthias Ellmauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25535	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The dangers of nuclear energy are a very important matter for us. Austria is also committed to the solidarity of the Community in the event of threat of nuclear hazards. The threat from nuclear waste must therefore be taken seriously by us. We also owe thanks to the efforts of the Austrian Presidency in 1998 and in particular to our Foreign Minister. This process has been promoted by its commitment to the concept of the northern dimension in the Eastern Europe Council Working Group, including Kaliningrad, the former Königsberg. The fact that negotiations were not easy in the run-up to the Feira Summit is clear to all of us and should be particularly clear to the sanction advocates of the left half of the empire. The particular dimension of the problem arises from the fact that the nuclear loads still consist of Soviet stocks by around 60 nuclear submarines. The political dimension and the enforceability of this project must also be seen in this context. It is a question of geopolitical importance in which the Russian Federation has the central role. It is important to win President Putin for this project. The conclusion of the so-called nuclear environmental programme for the Russian Federation is essential for successful international assistance. It remains to be hoped that the announcement of the Russian President Vladimir Putin to do the initialling during the Swedish Presidency will also be implemented. In the meantime, it is important to ensure funding for a comprehensive damage analysis and a successful elimination by the donor conference.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25573	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25594	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'll do it for a second, too. If you watch the movie "Jagd on Red October" with Sean Connery next time, you may be pleased that we have contributed to this problem of the old loads and nuclear reactors in submarines together today. We support the Swedish Presidency in its efforts to support this peninsula, on which it is only so full of nuclear reactors. There is a fifth of the world's out of operation and in operation nuclear reactors. I am glad that we made this four-party request. However, anti-atomic policy is indivisible. As the last speaker, I should like to return to today's starting point, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, and put forward a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think you can carry the first point. Furthermore, we are back at the point: Specific nuclear policy does not stop with resolutions, but stops with economic policy and energy policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Even if you do not mind it, because it is such a big step for you to do something about the wrong decision of Mr. Jörg Haider, Mr. President-in-Office of the State, which is by nothing to justify and a declaration of bankruptcy of the anti-atomic policy – that is what I say as a Carinthian in all openness – I have no problem at all – even if you do not get that over the heart, I ask you to think about this problem. [[Abg. May. Trattner: That's what you say as a Carinthian?]] She's not supposed to repeat. This is a warning for the rest of the Austrian federal states. I would've been happy if you could have jumped over your shadow in any way and not always run after him who says he's the boss and he's right. In this case, he is so wrong that it is almost impossible to express! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25662	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25686	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my pleasure at the fact that there has been a four-party proposal on the anti-atomic policy of our country. Thank you – I do not want to thank the government parties for their insight! However, I would like to stress once again that my group no longer sees the "Melker Process" as an appropriate process for the Czechs to leave the Temelin nuclear power plant. Ladies and gentlemen! I have tabled a motion for a resolution tabled just now by Mrs Glavischnig: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you and good night!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25743	This motion for a resolution is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25767	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall put forward a motion for a resolution at the end of this debate today. It says: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you and a good night, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25837	I don't have any further words. That concludes this debate. We come to the votes and I ask you to take the places. The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Kopf, is also sufficiently supported as a four-party motion. We shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee Report 649 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this resolution, which is annexed to the Committee's report, to give an indication of this. – This is apparently unanimously accepted. (E 87.) We are now voting on Mrs Glawischnig's motion for a resolution on Austrian anti-atomic policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, Dr Glawischnig, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Oberhaidinger and Mr Comrades on the fastest possible possible safeguarding of an Austrian electricity solution to force the anti-atomic policy of the Federal Government. Here again, I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Sima, Dr. Glawischnig and comrades on the consistent continuation of the anti-atomic policy of Austria. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to do so. This request was unanimously adopted by the National Council. (E 88.) That is what we have done with this item on the agenda. Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25929	As announced at the beginning of the meeting, we shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for reporting on the request 438/A concerning a pension reform law 2001 a deadline until the third time. In July 2001 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this deadline proposal to give a sign. . I note that the request for a deadline has been accepted by a majority. The agenda is therefore exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-06-06-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00071_d7e25959	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 446/A (E) to 450/A (E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2517/J to 2550/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 7. June 2001, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The next meeting will begin at Question Time. Today's sitting is closed.
