ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2173	Ladies and gentlemen! I can invite you to take your seats, and I'll open the 61. The National Council meeting, convened for today at 10 a.m. The official protocol of the 60. ==References== For the purposes of the provisions of the Parliament's Directorate of Directors, it has remained pending and without opposition; it is therefore considered approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are ing. Gerhard Bauer, Mag. Fellinger, Rosemarie Bauerund Ing. Maderthaner. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2213	I have now reached the current level. An hour whose theme is: "The government is threatening the independence and economic existence of the ORF" The first speech is to be made by Mr Dr. Cap. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2243	It's significant that you've strapped which badges we're wearing today. [[towards the liberals and the ÖVP]] It's the Vienna coat of arms. [[All representatives of the SPÖ carry the city coat of arms at the revers.]] You will not miss the fact that on Sunday there are country and municipal council elections. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Goods!]] I'm surprised you're still there, you should look for your voters, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you: I am proud to be Wiener, and I will still be able to justify this today. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Simmering!]] Today we have to discuss a matter that will be presented by you this week at a press conference. Tomorrow the so-called sages will come to the public, it will be about the ORF law. I claim that after the defeat of the regional and municipal council elections in Vienna, you will now try even harder to enforce your power in Austria. You will talk less about the opposition, and you will fear the people and the people even more. And the latter right, I'll tell you. I therefore believe that when it comes to this ORF law, it is not for you that this law should ensure the independence of the ORF, and then it is not for you that the ORF should have secured its economic existence in the future to the extent that it is so far. Your proposal, which you have made in your punctuation, is in reality a restriction and an elimination of the independence of the ORF. That's your plan. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is the greatest shame to say that, just because Mr. Khol, Mr. Westenthaler and others who meet your political definition are no longer in the board of trustees, the politics is outside. The fact that it is a luck for the company is that Khol and Westenthal will no longer sit in the ORF leadership body is undisputed. This will be welcomed by every listener and seer, and this will also be welcomed by the staff of the ORF. But you do not change the possibilities for sending government representatives, parties, federal states; nine government representatives will return to the new Foundation Council on the basis of your projects. What will they represent there? – Of course they will have to represent the interests of the government! You plan: Politicians out, but politicians in other ways back in! That's a double game, and it's going to be a double game. They continue to get the bill of voters – and unfortunately the ORF the bill of listeners and seers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or let's say it differently: They should not look like politicians, but they should act like politicians. That's the truth! There is something to add – because Mr. Klubobmann Khol looks so cleverly; now his part is coming – to eliminate hearing and visionary representation in the form and to replace it with an audience council. In the language of Khol, this means: more government-loyal representatives in the future Stiftungsrat. – This is the language rule. And why? So that the blues can speak for themselves, because so far the blacks have the absolute majority in the ORF curatorium. The third strongest party has the absolute majority in the ORF Curatorium! It will also have the absolute majority in the new Stiftungsrat, but it does not have the two-thirds majority. This may be interesting in the selection of the general intern. Now, if you do not want to represent the listeners and seers and not the ÖVP and the FPÖ – but the two gentlemen and the two political groups – reformed, so to speak, and converted into a black and blue audience council, then Black-Blue has a two-thirds majority in the Foundation Council. There is no art, of course, if you say nonchalant, for the election of the general intern – which you would like to admit, by the way, that he now has a right of entry, so that he is then a preferred intervention agency – we can quietly provide the need for a two-thirds majority. This is, of course, ridiculous from this point of view. They don't want a broad consensus either. We have proposed, for example, that a two-thirds majority should remain in the choice of the general intern. In this law, it should be seen that there is broad consensus that at least two thirds of the house, i.e. a large majority here in the house, can participate in the decision. But you're acting like the media authority. You don't want to see the opposition at all, and you don't even want to see it in the decision-making bodies. That's your basic attitude! And you want to switch the ORF straight. The ORF is supposed to be a government-dependent body that can finally influence listeners and seers in such a way that, despite bad policy, you have different results, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler. But that won't help you either, because if you make such a "pang" policy, if you get the people into the wallet all the time and destroy democracy, then you simply won't be elected. And that will not only be so in Simmering and Favorites. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, there is now a new electoral coefficient in election research, which is the "Westenthal coefficient". This is double-digit: minus 10 percent, namely birthplace and constituency, simmering and favorites. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] You should add that quietly. Next point, which is important in this context. You know very well that there's quite a dominance: Murdoch, Time Warner and Bertelsmann are the real powerful in the media. Instead of being happy about the fact that Austria has with the ORF an institution that is competitive in which the Austrian cultural identity can be found again, you want to make this ORF so many difficulties in its economic policies that in reality it can no longer meet the needs of listeners and seers. In other words, I can report this from the various curatorial discussions –: They want the ORF to be unable to send its popular broadcasts – whether the "Die Million-Show", "Taxi Orange" or "Musikantenstadl" – any longer. They really want the mass-attractive shipments to be no longer sent. And I'll tell you: This is a premeditation of the listener and seer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] They want to make the listener and seer happy. ÖVP and FPÖ not only want to influence the information broadcasts and not only determine what is good or bad, what the listener and the seer can hear and see, as far as political information is concerned – no!, also in the leisure and pleasure areas you want to influence. They also want to determine when the listener and the seer have something to laugh at and when he has something to cry. If he sees you, he just has something to cry for, so at least leave him with the broadcasts in the ORF where he has something to laugh at! This intervention is a fundamental one. Therefore, I have another question to ask: Why Needed You're a so-called Weisenrat? – It is not yet certain whether these people are wise at all. They will hold a press conference tomorrow – strangely, this goes very quickly, that must have been planned by a long time; the wise men must have been wise before they have defined themselves as councils – and they will present themselves tomorrow and present their ideas. But at the presentation of the book by Klubobmann Khol on the black and blue turn of the day entitled "The Black and Blue March through the Gobi Desert" – since last Sunday, by the way, this will become an endless march through the Gobi desert, I just tell you – is the festival speaker of the "Albeit" Gerd Bacher. [[Rejoicing and applause at SPÖ]] That is, he is not an independent wise man who thinks about the ORF, but he is a black and blue executive in the change and take power of the government in the ORF. That's the truth! Prepared by a long hand, festive speakers on the occasion of the presentation of your book! – You should not forget that in this context. They want to make their way, State Secretary Morak wants to hide behind the sages, and with him Chancellor Schüssel. Play together You've got this hideout behind these so-called four ways. I do not understand Mr Csoklich, who has already initiated a radio-visual desire for the independence of the ORF. He would have to do this a second time in order to free the ORF from the claws of Khol and Westenthal who want to pull their loops ever closer around this facility. If this is the case – and so it is – and if more than 50 percent of Austrians actually want the ORF to continue in this form – Mr. Kukacka, you have private media interests, you should not talk about this topic at all – then I say to you: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] They should consult the Austrian population, because it has the right to speak there. If so many Austrians want the ORF independent, economically secure and with all the many programmes they like so well, if they really want you not to access, then make a popular survey. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the Freeman]] Be man enough and make You're a popular survey! Hide You do not want to cross Parliament here! This is your attitude, for which you have already received the invoice on Sunday.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2376	For an opinion on the current hour, the Secretary of State will be given the floor. His speaking time should also not exceed 10 minutes. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2397	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The title of today's current hour, namely that independence and the economic existence of public broadcasting would be threatened, is an injunction which I would like to draw attention to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The allegations and allegations made by Mr Cap here from the panel, from which Rostra said to the plenary, are so absurd that I do not want to go closer to them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They prove once again that this is a political game at the expense of the most sensitive part of our media landscape, namely electronic media and their development into a European standard. In the interests of constructive dialogue in this area, Mr Cap, I would like to ask you to return to the subject matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's a good idea!]] Do not continue to operate Your party-tactic games, as you have already organized at the "KommAustria" on the back of the media entrepreneurs in this country! The mayor of this city spoke of humility after his election. [[Call at the SPÖ: This is a great one!]] I have not noticed this in your speech. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You will remember, Mr. Cap, that already in January of this year a survey under the motto "Quo vadis public-law broadcasting?" It has happened. There were a number of Members present, there have been several comments on the subject, which referred to an objective discussion and an objective atmosphere in this discussion. For the first time, the Federal Government has organised a comprehensive conference on the future of the ORF with experts in advance for the revision of the ORF law. So far – Mr Cap, you will give me a right – this has not been the custom of the media chancellors of this Republic. I can remind you of the results of this survey: Firstly, independent journalism and media freedom were required. This is double secured by § 17 of the Radio Law and by the Staff Regulations. I not only see myself as someone who is innovative to this law, but also, of course, as a lawyer for freedom of the media and as a lawyer for independent journalism in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, it was said that there is a huge need for media recovery in this country. The discussion that has been held on this issue has not yet been such that it has been committed to meeting this need for recovery. I and this Federal Government have therefore created clarity; immediately after taking office, we have commissioned a television frequency review with the aim of allowing terrestrial private television in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Thirdly, we have invited this meeting to prepare for the revision of the ORF law, after a cooling phase – you always have the 5. Since December, there have been extensive discussions with local and international media experts on this issue. It went – again! – to the public service mission to the digital future of this country and to the European dimension of both facts. The consequence of this – and I repeated it several times in the media and also expressed it there – is: The ORF must remain efficient and be efficient, it must remain competitive and be competitive, and it must be made fit for the future. However, it was also clear that a commitment to the dual broadcasting system, in which the public-law broadcasting system represents a fundamental value, which has its fixed place in the Austrian media landscape, which has its fixed place in the acquisition of Austrian identity and through its programme culture, through its political culture and in the daily proof of Austrian identity in the aether. Let me therefore address the European component a little bit. This one is always overlooked and misunderstandingd. There is, of course, also a controversial discussion in the area of the EU. There has been a discussion in Council working groups in recent months, but also in the EU Council of Ministers for Culture and the Media. The conditions, to what extent public television financed and to what extent can be agreed with the EU competition directives, are the subject of discussion at European level. The conclusions of the debate, the redefinition of the public service contract, are not a specific Austrian problem. In many Member States, it is a fact that exists and is being discussed in a variety of ways. The Protocol on public broadcasting to the Amsterdam Treaty entitles the Member States to determine the financing and the public service contract. However, there are differences in interpretations of the Protocol with regard to actions brought by private broadcasters against the financing of fees and state grants and the related legal uncertainty, in particular with regard to the scope of the audit authority. The Commission's previous considerations on the aid scheme are that activities of public-law organisers are at the same time a service and are of general economic interest. This decision makes it clear that public broadcasting is of particular importance. In other words, the public service contract must be clearly defined, clearly formulated and contained in a legislative act. It must not go beyond broadcasting activities and an independent authority should be obliged to monitor. In this context, I would remind you of the Federal Communications Senate, which is a kind of thing. 133 Z4. In view of the classification of public service broadcasting as a service in the general economic interest, the Transparency Directive – Directive 2000/52/EC – is also to be mentioned, i.e. cost-effective and cost-effective separation of service in general economic interest and other business areas. The purpose of the amendment is therefore to transform the previous economic entity into a public law foundation. The Foundation has the purpose of fulfilling the public service contract with full respect for the independence of broadcasting guaranteed by the B-VG – once again: full respect! – in particular the persons and organs, no change in the position of programme-forming employees and thus continue to ensure full journalistic freedom. The independence of the institutions is substantially strengthened by an incompatibility provision, i.e. politicians, mandaters, political parties' employees, political club employees, educational institutions and ministers' secretaries are denied access to these bodies. The Foundation also stresses the fact that the beneficiary is the general public. The recast of the advertising regulations is intended to provide legal certainty – including private providers – and, in the sense of the dual broadcasting regulations I mentioned earlier, to ensure both. We believe that a balanced relationship between public service tasks and the possibilities to go beyond them and to finance themselves privately on the market will be maintained in the soon-to-be-inspected novels to Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I also say to you that the attitude of this Federal Government, namely its commitment to a public-law ORF that works on the market, has been mentioned and presented several times in Brussels. I will continue to do so. However, with the same emphasis, I would like to insist that we create a framework for a future-oriented media policy in this country, i.e. dual broadcasting in a fair competitive system, a strong ORF with a contemporary public service mandate and the creation of the conditions for private television. I hope to have a majority in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2499	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his opinion. We are now entering the debate. I would remind you that every speaker and speaker in this debate has a speaking time of 5 minutes. This is what Mr Arbitrator has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2526	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Unsuspected by the wrong person A few minutes ago, the State Secretary modestly stated that: I and the Federal Government have created clarity for the ORF. – The fact that Black-Blue leaves the ORF alone and allows him to continue his successful work was only hopeful – one could not expect it because of the experience in other areas. The concern focused on two ways of thinking: Will the government leave the ORF unchanged as an economically and mediatically strong instrument, take control and leadership and use it for its purposes, or will it weaken it economically and legally, privatise parts and create space for private individuals at the expense of the ORF, and give it applause, approval and gratitude to some press agencies and especially to Austrian hungry German media giants and perhaps some friends to participate in? The point made by the government, Mr State Secretary – the ORF law itself, as you have had to admit, is still not included in the draft – fears that you have decided to do both, namely to weaken the ORF and to bring it completely under your political control. We reject this in the interests of our country with all our determination! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Black and Blue! They act against the wishes of the Austrians, and for this you will also have to pay to the Austrians. 85 percent of the Austrians – as the last major survey by Fessel-GfK of February this year shows – call the ORF "important" for Austria, 59 percent say he is "one of the best ambassadors of our country abroad", and 57 percent say that he is "personally important to them". The attitude of the Austrians to the future scenarios is also clear: Most of them are against privatisation, partial privatisation or conversion into an AG, and the ORF is not to be transferred to foreign property. What Black-Blue announces in the punctuation, including the advertising ban, is not only unfair and unfair, but it also limits revenue for the ORF and has direct consequences in various areas: for own productions and for the scope of the program services. It also circumscribes the ORF in future technical possibilities, and it limits the media location of Austria. This therefore benefits mainly the foreign competition. To a great extent, however, what you are planning in terrestrial digitization is a disadvantage. Europe is turning to terrestrial-digital television. In Austria, we have three frequency chains, in fractions a fourth. Two of these frequency chains are ORF 1 and ORF 2, the third is urgently needed for digitization, because then there are four digital program options: Place for the ORF, place for technical developments and place for private. You want to give this third frequency chain to private people, you want to give it to them in a majority of foreign possession and thus make digitization impossible. This is negative and will have technical consequences for Austria as a whole. They thus prevent better reception quality, full supply of previously under-supplyed regions, regional diversity, more TV programmes and new electronic information options. Instead of taking advantage of this opportunity and making a large joint venture between the Austrian industry, the economy and the ORF, which can be realized in 21 to 24 months, and creating orders here, you are harming the ORF, our country and its inhabitants for personal, party-political reasons.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2583	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. He has the same speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2604	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian broadcasting is essential for democracy in this country. Austrian radio is essential for the good and objective information of the population in this country. The ORF is essential for the people's culture, for the high culture, for culture at all and for the entertainment of the population. – We will support him and keep him! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will bring a law into this National Council and discuss here, through which we will transform the ORF into a foundation of public law – a mass of wealth that belongs to itself and the Austrian people – we will free the ORF from the traps of politics, make it objective and transform it into a foundation that serves the Austrian people, its information and entertainment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We need the nine country programmes, we need the foreign language programme, we need the television programme of both channels, and we will also need digitalization. The ORF is to be at the forefront of technical progress. We will create the legal basis for this. We are in favour of the ORF financing one half of the fees and, on the other hand, half of the advertising, and we will also secure him the advertising possibilities he needs to design his programmes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Cap! If you think that we want to prescribe the nature and content of the program, in fact only have information and culture, then be fooled. You will know from the board of trustees that, for example, we have put up a lot of understanding for "Taxi Orange". What we have resisted is that on one channel "Taxi Orange" and on the other channel of the "Musikantenstadl" is on the program, which does not keep the diversity of the offer in one evening. It needs both, it needs the "musical stadl", and it also needs "Taxi Orange". We will not practice tasteful cultural censorship. On the contrary! Ladies and gentlemen! However, the core of the ORF reform is depoliticization. I do not understand, Mr Cap and Mr Schieder, how you can have the forehead to get out of here and talk about depoliticization! I'll remind you of the 2nd. In July 1999, Viktor Klima was still German chancellor: In Parliament, the "Euroteam" scandal was examined – already then! – corruption and development of the Federal Chancellor in this scandal were claimed. Allegedly, not proven! The ORF reported on this. The ORF had foreseen in the text of the moderator that the son of the Federal Chancellor, Jan Klima, would be mentioned in the news as the inspector and auditor of "Euroteam". As with a miracle, the moderator suddenly found that those 8 seconds that were foreseen in the ORF-Moderation to mention that the son of Federal Chancellor Viktor Klima was removed at the company "Euroteam" accused of corruption. This sentence has been brushed away! Later it turned out that a curator, who was at the same time an employee in the German Chancellor's cabinet, was taught about this sentence by a trustee of the Social Democrats in the ORF. The curator called the ORF on behalf of the Federal Chancellor, and the sentence in question was deleted! – And here you stand here and claim to be for depoliticization! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP, the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want no curators to be able to call the ORF on behalf of the Federal Chancellor in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have already withdrawn all the Chancellor's Secretary-General, Minister's Secretary-General from the new government representatives, and replaced all political officials with judges, lawyers and university professors. And if the green curator Schennach complains about it, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: They had a specialist, an expert in the board of trustees, Mrs. Universitätsprofessor Puntscher-Rikmann, and this was replaced by the Secretary of Press Schennach. – This is depoliticization in red and green, and we reject it! The ORF must be free!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2689	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2710	Mr State Secretary! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If, like the SPÖ, one wins one election once again after 15 years, then I understand that one is happy about it – that everyone would do it –; however, that just one representative – Mr. Ex-Central Secretary Cap – goes out of this SPÖ time, in which a severe electoral defeat after another was hit, that representative who was put on the fresh air for the chronic failure of Mr. Vranitzky, is really remarkable. [[Abg. Eder: A weak Westenthaler!]] I am also glad that this current hour is broadcast on television at lunchtime, because it is also the way, with what superiority, with what arrogance You have commented today on this excellent election outcome, interesting for the people sitting in front of the televisions and watching it. If you look at your arrogance and superiority after this election Sunday, then you will, then some will already become thoughtful and consider whether it was really right to equip you with this power with this absolute majority in Vienna. I tell you, Mr Cap, after your appearance here: Arrogance comes before the case, and that will happen to you too! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 2002, after the decision-making of the new ORF law, with in-force cracks and with the implementation of the new ORF law, a new media age will begin in Austria. 17 years after Germany and three years after Albania, Austria will take the step to the European media policy standard, Austria will have a dual system, a system with public-law television and private television. 17 years after Germany, three years after Albania at last also private television, finally also dual system in Austria – but that also means a long-standing and decades-long stoppage of SPÖ in media policy, which we now want to meet by overcoming the ORF monopoly, but also by cementing more variety of opinions and more freedom of expression. The SPÖ is also responding again today – Mr Cap and Mr Schieder – as in the past days, like a small child in the sand box, to which one has taken away his favorite toy, in that case the ORF. I'll tell you: This law, the de-party politicization we are continuing here, will now mean the end to political radio, to the "Rotfunk" ORF and the beginning of a new era of independence in Austrian broadcasting! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This hurts the SPÖ especially. The Larmoyance of SPÖ and Greens following the announcement of the decision that no politicians will be present in the ORF in the future is also significant. Mr. Cap has used all the superlatives for this: disappointing, inconspicuous; a cry by Cap and Schennach of Red and Green has gone through the media world. He called it a horse-deception, as a PR-gag, and he suddenly declared himself again a few days later for the posting of politicians to the ORF. Mr Cap! You don't want to let go of your power, your red supremacy in the ORF, which you've cemented for years. But you will have to because this law will require you, Mr Cap! In the end, they will have to let go. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The next step of de-party politicization will be carried out after we have already exchanged the board of trustees. They have sent the ORF Curatorium for years with party and ministerial ministers. Mr Kalina, Chancellor's Secretary, Mr Kern, SPÖ Secretary, Mr Krammer, Chancellor's Secretary – all these Politruks have been in the ORF and have fulfilled the mandate of their party there. We immediately exchanged them after government formation and replaced them with party-free, independent experts, lawyers, experts. And that hurts you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This independence that we have created hurts you! The second step is now complete de-party politicization. Not only will politicians no longer be able to be in the ORF, they will not only be able to be mandates in the ORF, but they will no longer be party officials, no party employees, no Kluban people, no more party secretaries at all in the ORF. This inconsistency section will ensure this! I understand that Schennach is hurting as a party secretary and press speaker, for he himself will no longer be able to be in the ORF, but only more independent experts. This is the widest depoliticization we are carrying out, and I say to you: This is the beginning of the end of your model of a red propaganda instrument ORF! That'll be over in the future, I can promise you. We will ensure that this new law will be taken care of. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We will create new standards, upgrade the public council, create an ORF of citizens with the participation of the people who will also be represented in the audience council as seers and listeners of the ORF. – This is a good, a new reform, a new media age from next year!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2779	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2800	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Depolitikierung à la Westenthaler – do you know how this looks in the ORF? [[Abg. Eder: I can imagine!]] There are supposed, supposedly party-independent curators in the ORF, and what is the first act they put in the ORF? – They throw out the truly independent examiner and replace him with a shark-faithful one, you could almost say, Haider-hearing financial auditor. – This is depoliticization, party independence à la Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, the Greens, as the first and for a long time, have called for the only party: Depoliticisation of the ORF Curatorium in the sense of "no mandates in the curatorium!", that is, no khol, no Westenthaler, no coroner, no cap in an ORF curatorium. That's what the Greens asked for first! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No Schennach!]] And on top of that, ladies and gentlemen, the Greens still stand today. Ladies and gentlemen! The ORF does not belong to Khol, the ORF does not belong to Westenthaler, but neither does Cap and Arbitrator, the ORF belongs to us all, to us citizens, my dear ladies and gentlemen of the ORF! Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But also not Schennach!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He doesn't belong to you either!]] What is known so far from the comments on the question of what will happen to the ORF in the future, how Albania should be pushed back from Austria and taken Germany to Austria – should I tell you how this looks? In the truest sense of the word, you're bleeding out the ORF with 1 billion schilling! One withdraws the ORF 1 billion schilling in order to actually turn it off, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol, what we citizens, ORF seers like at our ORF! Do you really believe, Dr. Khol, that programmes such as "Mei liabste Weis", which are interesting for Austria, can still be produced if there is no longer this 1 billion schilling? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Of course!]] Dr. Khol, everyone knows that "Mei liabste Weis" is relevant to Austria, but to Germany this program cannot be sold. And that's what worries us when we're talking today about depoliticizing the ORF, making a sustainable ORF. What is on the Federal Government's plan today is to restrict the economic base of ORF, to take radical steps to do just that, as you, Dr. Khol, have said, is an essential task of the ORF, namely to spread identity-making, Austria-shaping, something like national consciousness in Austria. This will no longer exist if these measures are put in place. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a word on the "Wise Council" mentioned by Mr Morak. For 273 years he has been at the buckel, the "wisdom council", the gentlemen who make up this "wisdom council", ladies and gentlemen – well-regarded, for, of course, a blue-black government does not provide a wise woman for it, and would also be 80 years old, it is only wise men, a total of 273 years old. Faith You really are that these gentlemen, with these years on the bubbling, are actually able to define the future of the ORF in the sense of the re-definition of public-law broadcasting for the 21st century. To mark the century? This is the world of thought that truly influenced the ORF – think only of the deserved general intern Bacher – but these were the seventies, my ladies and gentlemen! Now it is about thinking about new media, about interactive television, also about economic issues for the ORF. What do we do with the teleshopping? What do we do with those things that could give the ORF the opportunity to become a truly multifunctional overall communication company in the future? The ORF is already trying to do this, ladies and gentlemen, but there is no legal basis for it, and that is why the need for action is now so great to give the ORF through a novel of the ORF law those economic opportunities that make it a television of the future for all Austrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2903	I call Mr Wittmann. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2924	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol! You sit here and say you're now creating an independent ORF. Do you want to say that he hasn't been? [[Call the liberals and the ÖVP:Yes! Right!]] That means that even under your government participation there has been intervention, influence and influence of the editors? Is that what you want to say? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I can tell you that is right, and I will read to you reactions of the ORF editors to your interventions and the interventions of your government partner. There is a resolution because the editors no longer knew how to escape these interventions because they no longer knew how to represent their independence on television. The accusation put forward by this resolution reads as follows: "The pressure of the government parties on the editorial staff has taken on an intolerable scale in recent days, up to personal intimidation attempts of the ORF editors." This is your "interventionitis" in the ORF, these are your interventions and the interventions of Mr. Westenthal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is a multi-day intervention bombardment of FPÖ-Klubobmann Westenthal in the Causa Small Service. There is a fax of the ÖVP club with multi-page detailed criticism of "ciB" contributions. Dear Dr. Khol! You now want to change the legal basis to make you have even more influence on the ORF that the political intervention is legally secured! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen]] ==References====External links== October 2000 said that the ORF would be put out of the party by law, and now he is preparing this law, ladies and gentlemen! This law, in which punctuation is already predetermined, clearly shows the party-political motivation behind it, but also the economic motivation to starve the ORF into giving the ORF a worse starting position towards private television, so that one can ultimately exercise political power through economic interests and economic power. I think that the new ORF law, which you want to decide here, expresses your attitude very clearly. The Secretary of State also mixes with it, in his department has become a party political occupation and a given one. The highly competent director of the film resort will be replaced without giving reasons and replaced by a party-political successor. This is your way of making politics, making party politics. When ordering the persons acting, you only use party-political ideas. Exclusive! There is no objectivation when ordering personnel. It makes no difference whether someone as a political representative receives a post or is appointed by the government. If you want depoliticization, then you have to change the order mode, otherwise Mr. Khol will not sit there, but his school friend, and there is no longer Mr. Westenthaler sitting there, but his tennis partner – if he finds another one. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] The general intern of the ORF said it itself: Then don't stop the forging there, but the forgings. They are influenced exclusively by politics. It's just a fig leaf you're hanging around. It is the attempt of the Government Party's grip after the ORF. Ladies and gentlemen! That must be made clear to the people! This is another step towards: Red out and only blue and black in, another step in party-political manner, resulting in the editors in the editorial offices already being afraid of your actions, because your interventions go so far that they have to write resolutions so that they can even defend themselves against this interventionitis which you have shown in recent years.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2981	Talk time, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e2996	This law will ensure the legal protection of the interventionitis from blue and black to an previously independent ORF.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3026	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Speaking time: also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3048	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! What Mr Cap has played for us today was theatre, not a big world theatre, but a small Austrian theatre: the Marche of the nagging ORF, Mr. Cap! [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] But I'm telling you: The ORF has self-confident editors who work professionally and strive for independent and objective reporting. This has been the case and will remain the same. You can convince yourself of it every day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Don't try to panic constantly! The ORF is part of the identity of Austria, and this should remain the case. What is it really about? You know exactly. It is about the development of media policy in this country. After decades of downtime, conditions for electronic media diversity are finally created in this country, and I say to you: It's high time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The government has not yet presented an ORF law, but at first only the cornerstones of an ORF law have been presented. And to these cornerstones, to these essential contents of this ORF law, one cannot in reality express criticism. It is planned to transform into a foundation, a new definition of the public service contract is planned, and it is also time to finally do so. In addition, I have to tell you that the government has been concerned about know-how from outside. She has been concerned by the way she has, and you, Mrs Stoisits, are being qualified by you, Mr Cap, in an incredible way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They act as if the wise men were to determine media policy in this country, which, of course, is not the case, but that hopefully does this Parliament. But: Why give up on experience? Why give up on 287 years of experience? What is the way to deal with older, experienced experts of the Austrian Radio Landscape? I think this is incredible, Mrs Stoisits. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, a word on the posting rights you so criticised. There is already a political clause, and what the government intends to do is to extend this political clause. In my opinion, this is really correct and very timely. Mr Cap! They have a truly hypocritical and double-skinned discussion. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Shrewd? Mr President.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: The emphasis was on "holy"!]] – A double-bedded discussion. I would like to remind you of the comment in the "Standard" where Mr Fidler has confirmed a "short memory", and he says – I quote – that: "Originally only that Cap just comes into existence now, may one only occupy a minority with politicians, but the majority with journalists, works councils and public representatives. He did not come to the idea until February 2000 when the SPÖ lost its majority in the board of trustees." [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This week, Mr Cap, the law is under review, and this week I am asking you to raise your concerns about this law or proposals if you have any. Do not panic in advance, Mr Cap, but surprise us with a constructive criticism!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3141	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3163	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to reject, on behalf of my party, the criticism of the sages with vehemence, because this criticism is not directed against the persons themselves, but because you say that precisely because they are already older, they are per se inappropriate to become advisers. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The pensioners in this country, the elderly people in this country are right for you if you can write them pensioners' letters before the election, but if they are then to work in the form of a way – people who have achieved great merits – then they are second-rate for you. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] A second, Mr. Cap, is human relations with your immediate predecessor as Central Secretary, namely, with Mr. Dr. Keller, whom you included in your criticism of the Weisenrat. This has a completely different quality. I recently had a hearing with my professional colleague Dr. Keller in front of the labour court, and I can tell you Dr. Keller is a flashy man, an experienced man and, above all, an experienced man in ORF-Dingen. The older rulers, who have nothing more to do with the ORF, have also been elected because there are simply incompatibilities among the disciples – of those who are in active professional life, there is no one really uncontained – that is one of the reasons for their appointment. But you should make it up with yourself and your comrades that you will issue such a bad, unfounded bad witness to your predecessor, Mr. Cap! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I need to tell you something: In your opinions – and I would also like to include Members of the Arbitrators – you are not speaking of this speaker's voice here for the ORF, not for the government or for someone else, not for the public advisory board, not for the spectators, but only for yourself. It hurts you, Mr Cap, that you have to leave the board of trustees, and it hurts my colleagues that he has to leave. That's why you're doing it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you something. We want to set up a Foundation Council instead of the ORF Curatorium. And we want the Board of Trustees to be held liable according to the model of the Supervisory Board of a stock company. Therefore, you will now see very quickly why you are both displaced in this Stiftungsrat: because you really cannot represent the interests of the ORF at the same time and can be media politician. This very inconsistency, my colleagues from SPÖ, has led to the fact that, in Austria, this media-albania or media-kongo, as you may call it, has been because you have actually made yourself strong as a guardian of the interests of the ORF here, prevented private television, prevented private broadcasting, made bad laws that have been repealed, and caused damage. This is now the invoice that needs to be presented to you: They will have to leave the board of trustees of the ORF. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: And you are the lawyer of private interests! You are the lawyer of private interests!]] I'll tell you something. Mr Wittmann did not say anything about what Klubobmann Khol said about the incredible "interventionitis" of SPÖ in ORF! He didn't even answer that! [[Abg. Schieder: You represent the private with profit!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You operate your private business! You talk for your own interests!]] Let me give you another example: Ms. Ulla Schmid, renowned editor of the daily newspaper "Der Standard", writes in her book on the Spin Doctors: ORF editors were always silent participants of each strategy meeting of the Reds in the 1999 election year. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Listen carefully, Cap!]] Questions like: If this had already been resolved with the top – namely the Küniglberg –?, were part of the standard repertoire of former ORF Secretary-General Andreas Rudas – then, as we know, Federal Managing Director of SPÖ. That's not what the Freedom Party says, but that's what Ulla Schmid, the "standard" editor, says. Mr Cap, I would like to say something to you, as we are talking about the board of trustees, and I would like to give you an earlier statement – you say that everything we do is bad, and everything that was done before was perfect. Col. Cap said in the 127. Meeting of the previous legislative period: "You can be for the board now or not. I am not in favour of this form, because I think it hurts the company." Mr Cap, you yourself say that this hurts the company, but you give a clear rejection to an ambitious project of this government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I also find it remarkable that you are now saying that we should leave the two-thirds majority in the election of the ORF General. Yes, please, but Federal Chancellor Vranitzky said, also in the XX. The legislative period, there are some examples of reform. Just as at present, according to the current broadcasting law, a general intern of the ORF is ordered, will not be ordered all over the world, and that will be changed as soon as possible. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] You don't want to change that! Mr Cap, you are still in the media stone age of SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3278	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3300	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Krüger, a correction: Ms. Editor Ulla Schmid works for the "profile" and not the "standard". [[Call at the SPÖ: The Krüger has no idea!]] A correction also to Mr Klobmannen Westenthaler and Mr Khol. Mr Klubobmann Khol has clearly forgotten that a public speaker of the ÖVP, the head of state Pröll, is still in the board of trustees. Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler has announced a new age of media. But of that, and that is already remarkable, in this punctuation nothing is apparent at all. I would like to explain this in detail: If we go on to argue that this is a restriction, a restriction on the economic possibilities of the ORF, then that is justified by the score you have presented. How would you feel if it were not a clear economic restriction, if it was indeed the case that the revenue of the ORF should be reduced by 10 percent, that one billion less scope for the ORF should be available, if the current structure, by covering revenue, were maintained by the removal of special advertising opportunities? Apparently, this is your way to the "new media age". The strategy behind this is clearly to open the door to Austria to those who are now ante portas by limiting the economic possibilities of the ORF. And that's a wrong way from our point of view, you're doing a huge chance with this punctuation! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You want by 10 percent less revenue – a billion less! This cannot be achieved in the current structure! I have not heard a word from you about future things, so when it comes, for example, to perhaps producing the Austrian reputation culturally abroad, Radio Österreich International. Or what a shame, Secretary of State Morak: Austria has no cultural channel! Even from these steps on my way to the supposedly new media age, I have not heard anything here today. In connection with the "Wise Council", there was a discussion about the age: My fear goes less towards old age, but towards ideological background. If a Gerd Bacher says Ö3 is a "dead" station, I have to tell you: Well, one can discuss this in a cultural debate, but if one does not say that Ö3 is the Cash Cow and Ö1 is co-financed, if one does not say that other cultural orders, which are very important for the ORF and for the Austrian diversity of opinion, are also financed, then there is a very special perspective missing, namely how to carry on the cultural mission, the information contract and the cultural entertainment contract seriously in the future. – This is our criticism of the "Wise Council". [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another point: I find it really embarrassing that experience in media policy is reduced exclusively to men, that it was not possible to send a single woman to this "wisdom council". This is not a start to a new media age, Mr. Westenthaler! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The foundation is, in our opinion, quite right, but the construction that is now planned is truly not a depoliticization! I am now quoting Mr Barazon – I believe that there is no red-greener and certainly someone who has contributed to a debate on media issues with critical remarks – who believes that it is difficult to protest against the removal of all politicians from the ORF bodies, but the ORF remains a state company for which the Federal Chancellor is responsible as the sole representative of the owner state, and in every company the owner has the last word. That means: Depoliticization and exclusive, sole power to the Federal Chancellor! Opposition and critics out! If Mr Khol believes that the ORF must be free, then that means: free from opposition and free from liberalism. Something else can't be meant by that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Because the accusation came, too few constructive and too few proposals from the opposition: We clearly say yes to an ORF reform, yes to a digitization that deserves the name and is not only limited to islands, to 50 percent. We also say yes to a public-law mission, where we need to discuss what this is supposed to mean in the future, namely: Order for education, for culture, for information that is also contemporary, and for entertainment that is modern. We also say yes to an offensive positioning of the ORF as a modern media company. If it's not even possible that the ORF prints its own paper, then, I think, it's already a big step up to a new media age. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] In conclusion: Depolitikisation yes, but not in the form that sentences fall like: We need to clean up the editorial offices! Certain elements can be removed from the ORF! – If this is to be understood as "depoliticization", then we are very concerned about the future of Austria, which leads to freedom of expression and diversity of opinion.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3365	There are no further words available, I declare the current hour to end. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3389	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office issued the following communication on a resolution by the Federal President concerning the representation of a member of the government: Ms. Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner was represented by Mrs. Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3416	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocation, I may refer to the written notice to all members of the House according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3596	Before entering the agenda, I should like to say that Mr Kiss, together with Mr Jung, has requested the Committee on Internal Affairs to report on the Government Template concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Import, Export and transit of War Materials and the Arms Act and to adopt a Force Residence Act, a period of time until 9. ==References== In addition, there is a sufficiently supported desire to hold a debate on this request. Since there is no urgent question today and no urgent request, the debate on deadlines will take place at 3 p.m., in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The vote will take place immediately after the debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3624	I have the proposal to summarise the debate on points 2 and 3 of today's agenda and points 4 and 5, 6 to 10 and 11 to 14. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. That is why it is decided. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3651	Let's go into the agenda. The Presidential Conference agreed on the following procedure: A day block time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been envisaged, which gives rise to the following speaking times: SPÖ 156 minutes, Freeman and ÖVP each 116 minutes, Green 92 minutes. The House also has to decide on this. I ask whether there are objections to this proposal. – That is not the case, so we have adopted it unanimously. 1. Point Choice of a writer/scriper
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3693	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. This is the choice of a writer or a writer following the separated writer Reitsamer. I have the proposal to elect Mrs Sophie Bauer as the National Council's author. Since I have only one proposal and therefore there is no candidate, there is the possibility of holding this election, not with votes, but by standing up and sitting. – There is no objection. I should therefore like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who voted in favour of Mrs Sophie Bauer's motion for a resolution on this subject. I note that the honourable Member was elected unanimously. [[General condolences.]] I am still obliged to ask if she accepts the choice. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: I take it!]] – Well, that's where the electoral act is carried out and the first one. Debates of the European Parliament 2. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template (499 of the Supplements): Federal Act, which amends the Federal Law on the Federal Law of 1996, the Federal Law on the Federal Rechenzentrum GmbH (BRZ GmbH), the Income Tax Act 1988, the Re-foundation Tax Act, the VAT Act 1994, the Natural Gas Tax Law, the State Printing Act 1996, the Landeslehrer Service Law 1984, the State Contracting Law 1966, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 and the Housing Law on non-profit-making and a Federal Act establishing the Food Safety Agency (Equipment Security Act) (Budgetbehörsergesetz 2002) (539 of the Supplements) 3. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law, with which the compensation fund law (BGBl. I No. 12/2001), the Federal Finance Act 2001 (BGBl. I No. 1/2001) and the Reconciliation Fund Act (BGBl. I No. 74/2000) (541 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3753	We come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda. The debate is under one. There is no need for reporting. First speaker is Mrs Doris Bures. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3785	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's budget accompanying law is the preliminary conclusion of a series of non-social measures, actually a whole package of measures that the blue-black coalition has adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals and the ÖVP! In the last few weeks, they have burdened with immense brutality those people who receive low or medium incomes. All experts have demonstrated that your budgets, which have already been decided and those which are still in front of us, have an absolute disadvantage in terms of distribution policy, because those with low and medium incomes in particular are burdened with lower and medium incomes. If you consistently implement your policies and your actions, workers will in future be burdened with additional 43 billion schilling a year, while on the other hand employers and businesses will be relieved with several billion. It is therefore important to say that because it shows that you are not about fiscal consolidation, but rather about taxing on the one hand low and medium-sized incomes and pensioners on the other hand in order to create reliefs for employers, for large entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Where are the companies relieved?]] In recent months they have faced people with increases in taxes, it has actually all become more expensive in recent months, heating, driving, ill health, and on the other hand, people also have a lower net income. Workers have a lower net income, pensioners have a lower pension relationship because they have brutally reduced the amount of the contributions. And you have also put in place some of the most unsocial measures, such as the accident pension tax, which leads to those people who have already hit fate to get a third less. They have carried out a number of these measures, these burdens very chaotic – this House and this country have experienced them – and diletantly. I just remember the ambulance charges that were implemented so chaoticly and diletanetically that they were abolished by the Constitutional Court. I am asking you not to re-establish this non-social measure in a new Husch-Fuch action, which all experts say is that it does not do anything financially at all, but to abolish the ambulance fee in the interests of the sick people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The budgetary policy of the blue-black coalition can be summarized as follows: It is not growth-oriented, but restrictive. Your budget policy will cut the country down instead of making necessary investments in the future, namely investment in training and research. However, with your budgetary policy, you carry out, above all, an unfair distribution of income, namely a distribution of lower incomes to the upper ones. They favour high incomes at the expense of small incomes. Also, the Budgetary Support Act will not be a good year for Austria in 2001 and for taxpayers. Your actions will continue to increase tax revenue, the tax rate will increase by 1 percent, and public expenditure will also rise again. This high tax and tax rate, which all feel – the highest tax and tax rate in the Second Republic! – the tax burden on workers will be higher by 110 billion schilling due to your budget and your budget accompanying law. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's wrong! That's wrong!]] This is what the members of small and medium-sized incomes and pensioners have to pay: 110 billion schilling! Social democracy stands for a different budgetary policy. We are in favour of a budget policy that focuses on: more money for training, more money for education – instead of the blue and black, more money for the German army. We social democrats stand for more investment in research, higher research expenditure – instead of implementing the principle of wage reductions and cash gifts for businesses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also support investments in child care so that it is actually the case that women and men can fulfil their professional training and childcare together – no undifferentiated child benefit that goes at the expense of women, as you see it in your budget! It is important to remind me of the following, too, because this federal government always acts as if it had invented the budget consolidation: In 1996, budget consolidation was launched under Minister of Finance Edlinger. Of course, this Federal Government has not invented the Maastricht criteria, which are the basis for budgetary policy. The fact that fiscal consolidation has already begun in 1996 shows itself to be quite simple, namely at the government debt ratio. They have set themselves the goal of reaching zero deficit from 2.3 percent. I would remind you, Mr State Secretary: From 1996 to 1999, the government debt ratio under Federal Minister Edlinger, under the leadership of Social Democracy, was reduced by more than 3%. That means that it was much more ambitious than what you're planning now. The consolidation of the budget at that time was, above all, different from yours today, that we have said: Consolidation, yes, but socially just! And "social justice" means that those who have more should make a greater contribution, and those who have less, a lesser one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So it is not a question of consolidating the budget, it is a question of burdening people, and of distributing it, namely from the lower incomes, as I said, to the upper ones. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that in many discussions citizens and Viennans, especially in recent weeks, have come to me and said: They have promised us a lot, they have promised that many things will be cheaper, for example, the rents will be reduced – but the opposite is the case. They have said they will not burden pensioners – but the pensioners have less in the wallet than ever before due to this non-social policy. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: That's also a nonsense! It's a nonsense!]] People feel the unsocial policy you're making. People feel that you represent a policy in which the weaker remains on the track and only the stronger prevails. I am glad that the voters, because they feel all this, have given a clear rejection to this non-social policy, this policy of the social situation on Sunday!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3873	Mr Böhacker spoke in favour of an actual correction. Speech time: maximum 2 minutes. First, reflect the facts to be corrected, then correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3898	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs Bures once again noted, with better knowledge, that the tax and tax rate of 2002 and 2003 is the highest in the Second Republic. – That is wrong, Mrs. Colleague! Rather, it is true that in 1997 the tax and tax rate amounted to 44.8 percent of GDP, in 1998 44.7 percent and in 1999 44.5%. All of this was under the age of a Social Democratic Finance Minister. The 2002 tax and tax rate will be 44.3 percent and is therefore significantly lower than in the three years mentioned under a socialist finance minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3935	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 10 minutes!]] I wish to correct and take two minutes back.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e3970	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are debating the 2002 budget accompanying law here today, we are debating an important framework law under the 2001 budget accompanying law, which has also already set the right course for fiscal consolidation; an important law that allows for an epoch in financial and budgetary policy, namely the zero deficit strategy. Ladies and gentlemen! An epochal turn in financial and budgetary policy after 30 years of Social Democratic Finance Ministers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr. Edlinger, on this... yes, that's right. [[Abg. Edlinger: And ÖVP State Secretary, Mr Colleague!]] But you know who the stronger one is, and you know who was Federal Chancellor for 30 years, Finance Minister, Social Minister. [[Abg. Edlinger: I'm so sorry! I'm sorry about that self-punishment that you've been a little sausage!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Edlinger! I've been waiting for this call, because obviously you won't get away from the red color. According to the red figures we have written while you were Finance Ministers, today in the debate on the budget you have a red line in the hair, which apparently reminds you of the red figures we have written when you were still Finance Ministers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That was the result of the election!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Now I'm going to tell you a secret: We have debated in the ÖVP club whether we should also offer you a bet. The bet would have read: If you clean up your party finances as fast as the government's budget, then let's paint the hair black and blue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler]] But the majority said: We're not making Parliament a Kasperl Theater! That is why we are not doing it, Mr Edlinger. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But this bet would be tempting, you have to admit that. It would be tempting to offer you this bet. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Mr Colleague stupid! It is significant that you also lubricate the blue color into the hair!]] [[Further calls.]] We see our task in bringing the country out of the red...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e4072	Mr President, I should like to thank you for your Please, don't embarrass those Members who have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e4094	Thank you for the good advice. Ladies and gentlemen! If we see a task in budgetary policy, then it is that budgetary policy should become what it is supposed to be, namely future design – and not debt. Through sad experiences we have seen that debt is the biggest enemy of jobs, the greatest enemy of social security, the enemy of youth and also the enemy of pensioners. Debts are a very uncertain future strategy, ladies and gentlemen. And we want to get rid of it. We know it would be much easier to continue managing. We must admit that we have actually lived well for 30 years, but at the expense of the future of our children. And that's just not responsible anymore. This is certainly a good time, but if every fifth tax schilling, which remains for the federal government, has to be used for the interest rates of public debt, then responsibility is required to provide for the future of our children and also for the security of pensions, ladies and gentlemen, and this is what this Federal Government is doing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The 2002 budget, for which today's accompanying law is an important framework condition, is also a profoundly European budget – not only because it is in euro because it is the first budget in euro, but because we finally issue the red lantern in EU statistics. We were the worst country in terms of government debt and deficit ratio. With this budget, we are again in the solid middle of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. I said once again to speak in red: Hardly are the reds from the government, has recently said a taxer, let's give up the red lantern again. I think that is a very positive sign and an important signal – despite the Vienna election, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Leave You tell me about the Vienna election – unfortunately, Mr Gusenbauer is not in the hall now –: Gusenbauer should not be too happy, because Gusenbauer is not a head! And he will still have to experience this very painfully. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the 2002 budget is not only a budget without debt, it is also a budget of future security, a European budget and a budget of trust. We see this on the economic data – I have already said it here –: Last year alone, we had 25,000 new jobs, 27 000 fewer unemployed, 40 percent less long-term unemployed and the lowest youth unemployment in Europe. This indicates the confidence of the economy and workers in this budget consolidation. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's not think about it. Economic location, secure jobs and budgets have a very close relationship. In the long run, a country as an economic location cannot be attractive if the budget is not in order. And the budget will not be sustainable if the country is not attractive as an economic location. There is a very close relationship between economic location, full employment and budget renewal, and we stand for both: full employment and budget consolidation, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have reached the state of full employment. Ladies and gentlemen! It was not until last week that the Secretary-General of the Economic and Social Union, our colleague Karlheinz Kopf, pointed out that today every second farm complains of labour shortages. This is the state of absolute full employment. Our main problem today is that we have too little labour, not just IT professionals. The companies are looking for auxiliary workers, skilled workers, computer personnel. That's our problem today. But this problem, I say quite openly, is better than the problem that we have hundreds of thousands of unemployed people who do not find a job, because we stand for job security! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let me say once again, ladies and gentlemen, as my previous speakers, particularly Mrs Bures, said that there is nothing in this budget for research, development and education: In the Committee on Budgets, however, where Mrs Doris Bures was not involved, we have pointed out that within three years, this Federal Government will spend 7 billion Schilling more on research and development, 7 billion Schilling more on education and 8 billion Schilling on infrastructure. This is compared with the year 2002 to 1999. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the design of the future, and that is the opposite of what we have brought with you, Mr Edlinger. You have to say that objectively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edellinger: Incorrect!]] It is simply not possible to put aside certain facts from a rhetorically still talented opposition speaker, Mr Edlinger! [[Abg. Edlinger: People have noticed it anyway!]] We are actually grateful that you keep reminding us of the red numbers we have written with you. We will write black numbers – and we will do so out of responsibility for the future of our children, out of responsibility for our country! [[Abg. Edlinger: The people have noticed!]] I would also like to say the following – a previous speaker has already said it –: Please, put on a little more humility! How superlative you are here today – superlative! – have labeled, is tasteless. I ask you: Did any of us, after the 11 percent success of the Waltraud Klasnic, have a Styrian coat of arms on the chest? Well, I'm a little bit like you think you already made it. You haven't managed yet, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, and in 2003 you will bitterly remember that you enjoyed yourself too early. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Again: Gusenbauer's not a fella! And unfortunately I have to say to us, too: Goerg's not a bowl either.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e4232	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e4254	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Referring to my previous speakers, but also to the budget speech of the Minister of Finance – it is, I believe, quite legitimate to include them in the consideration at the beginning of a debate on the budget accompanying laws – the concepts of "sustainability", "future orientation", sometimes "social security" and so on, and I think it is already striking – I do not pay attention to the elections in Vienna – that the question of sustainability and future orientation is far too little attention given to the question of sustainability and future orientation by this Federal Government in the design of the offensive as a zero deficit. In a critical view, one sees that in one, two years all this will look quite different. I'm going to do it a little bit now. If we want to clean up the future in a sustainable way or in a forward-looking way, in your sense, Mr. Deputy, what future orientation for the Greens means, of course, we should go into it in an extra way, of course, then we must ensure a balanced situation between revenue and expenditure-side measures. The conjunctive is, I believe, the more attached. In 2001, we are dealing with a 75 % expenditure-side and a 25 % revenue-side reorganisation. This ratio also improves next year, in which it will then make up 60 : 40, not substantial. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us take these indicators seriously! We will see it at the federal accounts in the coming years. It is not to be underestimated what that means. In addition – and you will have to go into it – you have already looked forward to prophylacticly corresponding tax gifts for your clientele in 2003. How is all this going to work out? It is now easy to talk, in particular the smart Minister for Finance speaks easily. All of this is well campaigned, not a question, but the probation test comes first. Not that the zero deficit could not keep in 2002, but what will be 2003 and especially after the next election, 2004? That's the question! I mention this because you are constantly riding around on this "sustainability" and "future orientation" so often that you can almost no longer hear it. You even try a 100 million schilling campaign that you are going through all over Austria to emphasize this over and over again. You have to let that happen, and now you have to make the accusation that you are in fact guilty of the answer as to this question. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the Freeman! They have a zero deficit, a Maastricht-compliant deficit in Austria, which is all right. It is fully legitimate that the federal government has de facto pre-limited 0.7 percent of GDP as a result and, in return, should consider the countries to be 0.75 plus precautions. But let's look at the numbers again! What has been so far, what was the previous year? It would be my memory of 23 billion schillings that would have to be there in the future. Now there are 7 billion schillings in the book that the countries can teach, and it is not at all clear how the countries are to do this – and that is where Maastricht conformity is increasingly interpreted. Austria has even gone that far – and we are making fun of it in Brussels – that it began to do so with the interpretations of what is Maastricht-compliant or not. The countries have actually been put in – I quote Lehner – a little bit. The evil awakening comes, and this is also a reason for your government crisis, because the heads of state say: What did you do to us? You, especially Minister of Finance Grasser, have actually succeeded in tickling the countries and getting around the nose, but the Minister of Finance already feels what he has of it. Countries cannot contribute these 23 billion schillings at all, unless they are using budget tricks that have washed themselves. That is what we are looking at, because that is essential for achieving the zero deficit. In addition, any response to structural reforms, such as the state reform et cetera, is missing. So the question of "sustainability" or "future orientation" remains open. And you have to please these questions. Perhaps the Secretary of State can say something if the Minister of Finance is not here. I also think that the other thing I have announced is the question of the promised tax gifts. If, so to speak, the additional wage costs are to be significantly reduced without compensation, then this money will be missing somewhere if the budget is already consolidated to 75 percent and 60 percent on the expenditure side next year. Letter You just keep doing this, then you will see that there is a gap that cannot be closed with the announcements of the Minister of Finance. On the contrary, because this clientele policy in the area of entrepreneurs does not stop, it goes even further, such as in the areas of military and traditional family policy. You don't mind, but that costs all the money, you know that very well. The sheer is getting more and more apart, and there's no indication of how you want to close it. Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government is holding an army finance minister, who very quickly formulates things, who is best advised as to his campaigns, but this federal government is actually pretty old-fashioned about works. They operate a clientele policy that continues to build on agricultural support for large farms, but there is no talk of ecologisty. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We create jobs!]] In the field of revenue, you're just a little bit the foundation billionaires, but that's not even an Alibi action, because the preliminated sum will no longer be kept. That's how it goes! This federal government has given a few key data, and this zero-deficit hysteria is really exactly the paradise behind which you sell your ideologically predicated measures. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: No one is hysterical with us!]] That's legitimate. Please confess, but do not explain to the people that the zero deficit story is the most important! When, Mr President, are we supposed to clean up, if not in the high economy? That's clear! [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Then you agree!]] We never disagreed. But let us talk about the measures that lead to this! I now come to the term "future orientation". – Where to grab You really go in to clean up? Somewhere there must be revenue on the side of the book, how you clean up – if not expenditure on the side! I am dealing with the problem of the different groups of the population. In fact, we need to consider the question of social security semantically once more. I've always believed: Well, that'll be a funny gag! From the wordplay the term "social security" has also been taken up from all sides. There's going to be so much shot out with the shotgun, and you see who you're meeting. That is the expected reaction of the opposition, how such a term is likely to be used. But if you look at that, you can see that it's much worse: Reaching the goal safely You're weakening the social weak! They're just trying to do it: There's an accident pensioner who hasn't paid enough. – flicking – hit. This is "social security". Congratulations! You did the same with the ambulance fees. – There are people sick who are supposed to pay; and if anyone else comes out, at least in the jungle of the bureaucracy, he must be ignited there with the paper economy. – That’s how your actions look! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupidly shakes the head.]] They're shaking the head! You know it is. You shake your head, but it won't help you. I am already excited about what your next course of action will look like when it comes to ambulance charges – Mr Oellinger will later address them. Again, sit down and explain: So and so and so we'll do it, and that as fast as possible! – If you don't have the vote results from Sunday to think slowly, where you ended up with your "Speed kills" patrol, then it won't have been the last result of this kind. But that's actually your problem. Only: This process is diametrically opposed to what you are constantly proclaiming, namely, dialogue, this and that "rerule". – Old-fashioned is how you do it. The facade is already crumbling, Mr. Col. Stumbling. [[Abg. Dr. stupidly shakes the head.]] You can shake your head, but it doesn't look so good anymore. The varnish is matt, including the Minister for Finance. The varnish is matt. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Look around! That's not true! Look at the faces!]] The grass is not here now. Let us not embarrass Mr Finz. Oh, now you've overrun me. [[Turning around and Federal Minister Mag. Grasser, who has now arrived, seeing]] [[The speaker turns to Federal Minister Mag, now sitting on the government bank. Sweat and shake his hand.]] We only separated yesterday at 10 a.m.; it was a very difficult debate. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You didn't want to go! You didn't want to go home anymore!]] Okay, the gate is yours. It stands at 5: 1 for the greens. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Another point on the orientation of the future: In the field of education, it is very likely that the wrong place will be saved. We have said this more often, but you have to mention it again and again. It's the same with the tuition fees. You know exactly who you meet with your "social security". – Why don’t you say – that’s actually more to the FPÖ address – not in the light of Sunday: We're thinking about some other measure? What's the matter? You will be able to have the opposition for that. Accident pension taxes, ambulance fees, tuition fees – where something has gone wrong is still on the rise. It will continue to pass. Congratulations! That's not how you're going to get far. They're in the dead end, but with more and more speed. Where's that going? - You'll know. Next point: What is missing in this budget and also in the budget speech of the Minister for Finance? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: The new debt is missing!]] – Mr Pumberger, you have also awakened. – It finds on each side more than once the word "future", but it does not find itself a single time in the entire budget speech of the term "environment". The word "environment" does not occur at all. What kind of future orientation is that?- Oh, my God! It is time to discuss the new tax reform plans on an environmental tax reform. I only notice this for the sake of completeness, because you are always going on stage in modern dress. I think that's an blatant step back. Mr Grasser! I know that in Mr Stronach, the environmental dimension was not necessarily a modern one, but in the European debate and debate it is, and this government is responsible for the fact that it is already disappearing in terms of terms. It used to be at least a confession, now it's not even that again. And this is a dangerous threat to the future! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't understand this constant growth in the future at all. In reality, conservative, phase-by-phase reactionary policy is being made here, and you want to cover that with "future" everywhere. What the future will bring will be another question! Let's come to the question of how you are trying to save yourself from this malaise. I have to say this regularly: They finance a campaign that has cost at least 50 million schillings – probably much more – so as to fall brainwashing through the innocent televisions and turn on ads where the biggest Humbug stands. This is really another problem! We are trying to bring Mrs Gehrer, a little bit of economic education to the people for years and days in education, but what is being advertised? – The indebtedness of the past is compared to the fact that every wage taxpayer or employed person could now have more in the cash register for 7 000 S per month. – This is not only stupid and polemic, it is also in a way passing any knowledge that you almost lack the words. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's right!]] But you're funding it! It is quite clear that it always depends on what is financed by borrowings. – Mr Minister, you know that, you do not understand now, you will not get well in the future if you are still being transferred there! That's in every textbook, probably even in one from the trade academy. And if you have always compared the state to a household, compare it to a company! It is already possible that the SPÖ has managed something in the past that investments have somehow been lurked under the great benevolent eye of the ÖVP, that is already going to be true, but to a large extent investments also have a return, so also in the state sector, and that is a question of infrastructure. [[Abg. Edler: The ÖVP more!]] Where would economic growth be, if not invested in the past, via loans? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Such a nonsense spread among the people, and that's really the bad thing about this! That's just where you're transferred. Show me a textbook that you can only support almost – but spend tax money on such ads, that is the "great performance" of this government! We were excited – and the FPÖ was right – to join the government's campaign to join the EU, right, but there was still a sense of goodwill behind it. Okay, a big idea. A government may also promote accession to the European Union. Maybe. I am against the fact that taxpayers are being recruited for the government. This is the case of the parties, and there is a party funding for that. But these people want to. Of course, you are shortening because you want to hinder the opposition. But that's another question again. The fact that you are dealing with a campaign, funded with taxpayers, so to speak, to the people, is unique until now. And the FPÖ, which was particularly excited at the EU campaign at that time, should now be in front of the curtain and say: Stop wasting money! They also exist in other areas – but you fail to do so. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That's what we do: stop wasting!]] Mr Pumberger! If we were to replicate Sunday a little bit, it wouldn't have been the problem, it wouldn't have been this campaign; then you wouldn't have to say anything at this point today. [[Call to the Freeman: "Replicate"?- Oh, my God!]] But in this election campaign, which your party, by the way, has led with the unsaid – flown in from Carinthia, grinning from every corner of the street – you have broken a taboo that would not have dreamed of the "three sages" when they were in Austria in spring and summer. We have more or less dictated a Preamble by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany into the government declaration – it would not have happened by itself anyway – and what happened? – Shameless break, and not just that, a taboo break in the Second Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Were you there too?]] Your party has to answer it! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Mr Pumberger! It corresponds to your attitude that you are leaning back tiredly. That's clear! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If the White Report were to be drawn up now, he would be terrible, and that would be right. Actually, the most beautiful thing about the last Sunday that we got a Weisen report is a democratically legitimate sages report by the Vienna voters. That's to write to you in the main book! If you don't remember this story, then continue – "speed kills" – to the dead end. The paint is complete as far as this government is concerned. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, this is also linked to budgetary policy, namely that, as mentioned earlier, a number of non-social and reactionary measures are put under the secondary objective of the zero deficit. The zero deficit is only used to legitimise. It fits in the image of this federal government, especially in the FPÖ, to wage such elections, and in particular it fits in the image of the ÖVP to finance such campaigns in the media age. This also has a reactionary character because you lie to the people with their own money. Let that be said!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e4524	Mr Kogler, I cannot accept the word 'debt'.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e4539	Mr President. First of all, I have not mentioned any recipients as regards this, second, at least the advertising agency. I just wanted to ask the Minister of Finance to distance himself from such lies. I'll stay with you. It is a lie if one claims that 7 000 s more could be in the cash register of any employed person, only no SPÖ government would have been at work. – That's a nonsense, that's the conscious untruth, and that's a terminological lie!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e4575	It is constant practice that it is not about proof of truth, but about terminology. I give a call for order for the expression "reliance". [[Abg. Dr. Cap: This is a real lie!]] Mr Magnificent came to speak. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e4607	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Your statements, Mr Kogler, should not be addressed at all – especially those you made at the end of your speech – because it would be a pity for the time needed for that. But something else unless you said, because you made a decisive mistake here: You've been referring here to a budget accompanying law that doesn't exist at all. They referred to a budget accompanying law from 1996/97, which had a weight of about 30 kilos and which involved a load volume of 130 billion schilling. If you meant this budget-accompaniment law, I'll give you the right. But the present budget accompanying law, which we are dealing with today, does not contain any tax increases at all, but is primarily about the need for consolidation, which exists in the field of federal and regional teachers, in a range of EUR 100 million. This cost-saving effect for the years 2001 and 2002 is primarily due to the fact that certain things are being changed in these areas, for example, that out-of-school benefits are no longer paid in hours, but are rewarded by a flat-rate fee. There is an experimental model of four years to make these cost savings possible in the next few years. This is essentially the content of the 2001 budget accompanying law. What you have been talking about, Mr Kogler, is a story from four to five years ago, which is to be held responsible by a Socialist Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Whatever I don't understand is the fact that you're out of here so unprepared. To do this, I have to say: The green club is supposed to be aware of what you really want to say here. [[Abg. Oils: We already know that!]] Do you want to bring only old numbers from four, five years ago, or do you want to deal with the actual figures so that it looks like at the moment? As far as employment is concerned, we currently have a record record. If we look at economic growth, we can see the highest economic growth since the 1980s. The number of job seekers has fallen. We had 24 000 new businesses in Austria in 2000. Exports have risen to a maximum. And above all, we have achieved a record value in social expenditure. What you're doing here is mess-making first class, a mess-making towards the Austrian population that doesn't deserve it. As an opposition party, you should also inform the Austrian people about what it really is and make constructive approaches to the free and government budget policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is true that the Socialists and the Greens want to give the impression that the budget deficit and the debt had arisen since the Austrian People's Party and the Freeman's Government. We already need to clarify the population and tell you that we have taken over 1 700 billion shilling debts from you, that we have taken over extra-budget debt, that we have taken over pre-taxes in a range of 2,200 billion schillings, that in 1999 we were at the end of the budget deficits in Europe, with 2.1 percent. That is why this Federal Government has set itself the goal of ending the re-indebtedness and making it socially compatible. It may already be that individual errors have occurred in this way, such as in the taxation of accident pensions, but this federal government will reorganise this error. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Edler.]] It will not go beyond what you did in 1987 when you introduced the taxation of accident pensions by waiting for the highest court decision. This federal government stands to reason when it makes a mistake and ensures that this error is also corrected. [[Abg. Edler: Husch-Puff-laws!]] And this error is also corrected. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Where would the trip have gone if we hadn't done anything? Where would the trip go if economic growth really were to be reduced? Where are more and more debts going? – This reduces the scope for the future. If only the expenditure for the operation of the government debt that you have caused – I do not yet include the repayments, but I mean only interest service – almost 50 percent – exactly 43 percent – of today's Austrian social budget, then I have to tell you: If you believe you could continue that way, then go out and say that to the Austrian population! Tell her: We want to go on like this! – But after two, three or four years of such a policy, Big Bang would then come, and then we would have to resort so much to income with rigorous measures that it would really be impoverished by the population. That's why we said: The necessary measures must be taken in good time, socially balanced and above all in the way that the population also has the prospect that income will rise again in the future, that the available income will become a higher one. As far as the increase in available income is concerned, one only has to look at the development of purchasing power, only the development of purchasing power in 2002 has to be compared with that in 1999. The former government has decided on a tax reform and a family package in the order of 30 billion schilling. We, this Federal Government, have only made it possible to finance these projects. This federal government has managed to implement three budgets within a year on the way to the zero deficit. And this federal government has also made it possible for the available incomes of the lower incomes, in the lower incomes third, to be 9.5 billion schilling in 2002 higher than that in 1999 under a socialist finance minister. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's not true!]] That's right! And in 2002, 75 percent of the lower income levels are relieved with 22.5 billion schilling or have more purchasing power by 22.5 billion schilling. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What is the result of this discharge? How do these things come about? – First, by financing the tax reform that you have decided on with a blank change. At the time, you were not even able to tell your government partner what the budget really looks like. If, at the time, the government partner knew what the budget actually looks like, he would have considered making such an unthinking tax reform and issuing a blank change. You have not informed him, and that is not because he should have no information about the actual budget figures at all. Ladies and gentlemen! What you're holding out to us today is the biggest humbug ever. We know God thanks to the agreement you have reached with the Austrian People's Party, how you want to renovate the 2000 budget, or if you want to make it possible for a budget 2000 to be achieved. They did not want to increase the age of arrival by one and a half years at early pensions, but by two years. The Federal Government has reduced this project to at least one and a half years. And you also wanted to do the following: raise the mineral oil tax by a schilling plus VAT. What do you think would have had an impact on the commuters?- Oh, my God! Go out and tell the comrades! Have the courage to do so! Finally, you have the courage to say outside what you have purposed! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They were also those who proposed to double the price of the vignettes. That's you! Finally, stand by that too! The loads you decided in 1996/97 in the order of 100 billion schilling have only been enough to stop the biggest holes. But you went on with the re-indebtedness as if nothing had been done. And that is why it is true that this federal government has put an end to this re-indebtedness, and that is why this federal government is on the right track with the plan to go to zero when it comes to re-indebtedness. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's what a lot of budget experts say. This is what Professor Erich Streissler says: "The budget reorganisation is not something that can be postponed, the Maastricht Treaties finally have constitutional status. If the recovery had been expected even longer, a higher rate of interest for the economy as a whole should have been expected. It is wrong for critics to complain about social reduction now. Since each deficit has to be financed by the taxpayer, it is about reducing the burden on future generations. We must not act even more at the expense of youth than we already do in the Pensionist State of Austria." - Quote. Professor Streissler, a recognised budget expert, has given the Federal Government the testimony that it was not only necessary, but also important and correct that appropriate measures have been taken to ensure that there is a certain margin for the future of our youth.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e4722	The next speaker is Mr Antoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e4744	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The new Landeslehrer Service Act is an integral part of the 2002 Budgetary Accompanying Act and the subsequent amendment proposal. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me, however, hold on: It is our social democratic belief that a richer society – and fortunately Austrians are that – should invest more money in education and no less. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who's doing that?]] We all, ladies and gentlemen, are this society. We must take the opportunities of our young people seriously and must not, therefore, start the severance in education expenditure. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where does this happen?]] We Socialists, ladies and gentlemen, urge you to set important social policy goals, such as the education and training of our young people, not the myth of the zero deficit! Although in the new Landeslehrer Service Law, there are some elements with which we can befriend ourselves: You will never be able to argue or justify the "New Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz" in education policy. It is and remains a budgetary policy measure. 1.2 billion schillings are saved with the LDG, and no one schilling, ladies and gentlemen, is used for the announced educational offensive, not for the foreign language offensive, nor for the quality offensive. The opposite is the case: The money is taken to stop budget holes. Thus, the LDG contributes to continuing the practiced teacher reduction. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! On my request in the Committee on Budgets, you made it clear that at the beginning of the 2001/2002 school year alone compulsory schooling is being saved on the basis of the LDG 2 118 planning posts. Carefully estimated are about 3,000 teachers, because we have to take into account the fact that we have many part-time teachers – contract teachers. The fact that this measure is only the beginning of compulsory schooling is not the case, because the provisions of the financial compensation will mean that by 2004/2005 quite exactly the number of 5 000 to 6 000 teachers will no longer exist in compulsory schooling, which we have always talked about. It will – and you know that just as we all do – result in a massive loss of quality in education and a dramatic reduction in educational opportunities through this teacher reduction. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Explain! Explain why!]] And so that you, Mrs. Federal Minister, do not accuse me again today of panic and the lashing of fears and insecuritys, I have parents from the Federal State of Vorarlberg, from the compulsory school area, speak. I quote – you know the letter, Mrs Bundesminister, just like Mr Klubobmann Khol and Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, who are not here now –: "Dear Mrs. Federal Minister! We fear that the planned deterioration in the right to pay will lead to a dramatic reduction in the currently high level of education in the long term. The future of our children, the future of our education system must not be broken. We therefore ask you: As a competent minister, perceive all that is in your power to reverse the planned losses in the field of education in order to ensure the decent remuneration of compulsory school teachers. Be against unjustified and flat-rate defamations of teachers in the public." - Quote. A further comment on the amendment: This will try to make the early retirement of older teachers tasty by means of a so-called special holiday scheme. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You know very well that during a special holiday the teacher's post office plan is bound, so that the original purpose of creating room for new, young teachers is not achieved. Mrs. Federal Minister! I can neither understand nor approve of your course. Instead of giving the teachers gratitude and praise for their decades of valuable pedagogical work with our children, they will also be deprived of the proportionate reward – I mean the anniversary allowance. In addition, those teachers who accept this offer – in your opinion: hopefully – and retire must expect sensitive financial discounts for the rest of their lives, as this leads to sensitive pension reductions. – This too, ladies and gentlemen, is an unsightly part of your so-called educational offensive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You haven't been so unscrupulous for a long time, Dieter!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I do not want to say to you that when you designed the new State Teacher Service Law and negotiated it with the trade unions, you really wanted all these atrocities that way. But I suspect that you have completely subjected yourself to the dictatorship of the FPÖ government members – the Minister of Finance Grasser and the Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer – to the application of the "Rassenmäher reduction method" in the field of education. The pedagogical concerns and the concern of the Austrians to finally launch an educational offensive are so dramatic.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e4844	The next speaker was Mr Finz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e4866	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have the 2002 Budgetary Accompanying Act, and everyone here can read that this Budgetary Accompanying Act does not provide for any additional burden compared to 2001. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is therefore not correct if it is claimed that the burdens are continued. This is absolutely incorrect. It is also not right that today there is a higher load rate than a few years ago. We had the highest tax rate in 1997 – already reported – with 44.8 percent, and in 2002 it will be 44.3 percent. The revenue increases only result from the fact that we have a good economic situation. This good economic situation needs to be used to achieve this – and this corresponds to any reasonable economic and financial policy – that we should reorganise the budget for future tasks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] After all, we have the great task of ensuring a pension system for future generations, and we already have to ensure it through a balanced budget. It has also been noted today that, with an annual budget of 800 billion Schilling, we have taken over an annual interest rate burden of 100 billion schilling. That's a huge clot that hangs us on the leg. This means, in particular, that everyone today admits that such a development, such an indebtedness policy cannot be further driven. To consolidate the budget means that we must achieve a surplus from the current budget, so-called administrative budget, which will reach these 100 billion. This is our task, and this must be achieved either with additional revenue or with a reduction in expenditure. What could we do with these 100 billion? We could spend more on research and development, what has been agreed here today, and we could make more investment in infrastructure. But this prevents us from having the interest rate, the tax rate that we have taken from the past. And because you're so keen to talk about the debt that's been made lately, I'd like to say: In 1986 an annual deficit of more than 106 billion was reached. Mr Kogler! They have said that the test for the federal government is still coming, whether it is possible to implement the budget in the same way as the budget estimate is. – That’s right, but we have already presented a first trial. The 2000 budget is a huge deficit reduction compared with 1999. How high was the deficit in 1999? It was almost 70 billion schilling! – And how much is it now, in the year 2000? - Under 40 billion! This is a tremendous improvement in a year! That's what we've already proved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And what was the difference to the former kind of budget policy? – In the past, more revenue, for example, resulting from a better economic development – I am thinking, for example, of about 7 billion additional revenue from taxes or the proceeds from the UMTS licence auction – has been spent immediately, but we have not done so. This is the new kind of budget policy that we are now running: We are committed to serious consolidation. They also referred to the financial compensation and meant that the countries will not achieve this surplus. – Please, this is a packed financial compensation! I assume that country leaders – including the mayor of the city of Vienna – know what they are signing. The mayor of the city of Vienna received a great deal of confidence on Sunday. He'll know what he's signing! I therefore do not understand why a mayor, who, for example, agreed on certain cover amounts and class teachers in the compulsory schooling field, then proceeds and establishes a list of signatures against the reduction of education and the reduction of schooling. The left hand obviously does not know what the right hand has signed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You mentioned Professor Lehner earlier. I don't think you have read exactly what he wrote about this. He always says that the countries budget very, very carefully – this is a tradition – but then are much better in success. Moreover, the budgets you are quoting are now all being improved, because the financial balance has now come and the countries still need to review the budgets. We are therefore convinced that the agreed commitment will also be respected by the countries. And in our view, structurally, we also have the opportunity to ensure that these commitments can really be complied with. You know the allegations that we were still too mild. Just think about housing promotion! There is a huge volume. They also addressed the structural reforms. These structural reforms are essential, and we will present them in the woods. There are already initial approaches, but in this respect we have only received rejection. On the one hand, the opposition legitimately calls for structural reforms, but when proposals are presented – such as the exclusion of the puncture system; this is practically a privatisation, we have only reserved ourselves more supervision – then these proposals will be combated immediately! Today, a structural reform of the federal procurement system is under discussion. I am curious about your contribution, how you will comment on it from the opposition, because this structural reform, through a better organisation in procurement, saves the federal administration – I emphasize: alone with this measure! – half a billion schillings. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We take government responsibility for our future generations seriously. For our future generations, it is necessary to clean up the budget. The next step is to ensure this budgetary reorganisation by means of appropriate structural reforms, and the third step is to bring about a more balanced tax burden on the population or to achieve a reduction in the tax rate on the European average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e4978	The next speaker was Mr Amon. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e4999	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to focus briefly on the contribution made by Mr Antoni, who has meant a pathetic point here: The aim is to invest richer societies in education and not to save on these areas. I would like to say that: We are spending more on education and research with the budget now under discussion than has ever been spent. This is the truth and nothing but the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: But in relation! ... stay with the numbers! What does it look like for the young people with the opportunities for education?]] And then Mr. Antoni – that was quite amusing – spoke of the "myth of zero deficit". – To this end, I would like to say quite clearly: The zero deficit is not a myth, but a necessity in the interest of young people in this country! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But the only thing you seem to have from the SPÖ in youth in your politics is the wanted-for-punker Edlinger in your ranks, who today is dressed as a punker dressed by the corridors and halls, I would like to say. That's really interesting. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He only lacks the hair glory!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: The second youth! A latepubertary apparition!]] I have absolutely recognized this, and it is not only Mr Edlinger who believes that he must act as a punker especially youthful. But what really bothers me is that the SPÖ does not want and does not want to understand that these savings are necessary because the debt of today is the taxes and the unemployed of tomorrow! You should really sit at a table with young people, because they simply don't understand why you want to make permanent debts at the expense of future generations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is those of the SPÖ Wurst!]] At any rate, I don't imagine a generation agreement in such a way that I have as my counterpart a SPÖ-pensionist chief who is noticed by racist and anti-Semitic statements. So I do not imagine negotiations on a generation agreement, I can tell you in all clarity! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I now come to my real topic, namely the Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz. Again and again, it was criticized that the teachership would be "overrun" and that this was a law, the job cost, and so on. To this end, I would like to say: I believe that the law of State Teacher Service Law is a law that is therefore exemplary because it is a law that has really been negotiated with those who are directly affected. In this context, I would like to commend the compulsory school teachers. These have been those who have very well recognized the need for reform measures! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: To a great extent!]] It was the union of compulsory school teachers – by the way also the SPÖ trade union of compulsory school teachers – which ultimately gave its approval to this model. They were clever enough – in order to formulate this once so salopp – and have developed a modern, flexible service model in good time and brought it into the negotiations. And it was the representatives of compulsory school teachers who made these proposals during the negotiations with the relevant head of the department. This new law of state teaching leads to the teacher being considered as a whole that we are no longer merely assessing the performance of Teacher 53Immediate – I don’t understand the question. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: What does that mean? Body, Spirit and Soul?]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Teacher as a whole – what is meant by that?]] – His performance, which he performs as a whole. Why do we, on average, cut off so badly in OECD studies? Because only the teaching time spent by the teacher in the class is assessed, and not everything else that belongs to it: the preparation, the follow-up, the talks with the educators, what he brings in to the school for the class, the quality management and so on. I am indeed convinced that we are creating a very modern right of service with the new State Teacher Service Law, which has been developed together with the teachers, but not only with the trade union itself, but this model was then subject to an initial vote involving more than 80 percent of those involved, and more than 70 percent have given their consent to this model! – This is the way this federal government is doing: Together with the social partners in this area, solutions are being found which are of broad support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Bravo!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: A original vote on plague and cholera!]] Finally, I would like to tell you that it is not – you are painting the devil on the wall here! – the teachers are discharged. On the contrary: For example, I hear from Lower Austria that next year teachers will not be hired. - That's the truth. Finally, stop preaching things that are not true here! Please note! Moreover, from Vorarlberg we hear that this is easy to deal with, which is provided here in the state teacher service law. The President of the Vienna Council of State Schools has also said the same, and your mayor in Vienna has given his approval to this point in connection with the financial compensation. Perhaps you should take an example of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e5187	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e5208	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Finanzminister! I wanted to make an actual correction on the comments made by Mr Trattner, who is now no longer present. He meant that the need for consolidation in the education budget for the national teachers amounted to 100 billion y. That can't be true in any way; I suppose that was a promise. [[Abg. Achatz: Schilling!]] 100 billion schilling – that’s interesting, but I don’t think so. It would be interesting how the need for consolidation is raised. It could be that it is 100 million y, but perhaps we will still find out in the course of the debate. Mr Amon! You're right with the highest educational budget. I give you the right, it is the highest listed educational budget. However, I only need to quote your Minister of Education Gehrer, who has repeatedly said in recent years: There must be an increase of 3 to 4 percent to cover the structural effect and salary increases. This 3 to 4 percent simply didn't exist in recent years, and you can read it in the budget issue. I have been told last time by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs because I have quoted it; but it is by Mr Grasser, it is not mine. You also said that our figures were only half true. They are at least quite true, as you can see when you read what's inside, and when you look at what happened functionally. There is an increase in the budgets from 1999 to 2002 by 1.48 percent – in total, not annually! Now you'll expect 3 to 4 percent a year, and see what would come out of it, then you'll see the difference we've got that's the savings potential. It's always so differentiated. On the one hand, you say we have to save, and on the other hand you praise that we have the highest education budget and a super service right. If you go here and say that we want to save and attract teachers as main savings points – that is exactly what happens from my point of view – then we could at least discuss matters. If we are discussing at this level, we can look at the measures. But don't try to present it as if we had an educational offensive! It certainly does not exist in this country. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What is an educational offensive from a green point of view?]] An educational offensive is certainly not that one freezes a budget over years, a proper budgeting... – What kind of nervousness is that? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Not what it is! What is it?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: make a suggestion! What can you suggest?]] That's incredible! Haven't you completely digested the Sunday yet? Incredible – sit there, shout in! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: make a suggestion! A proposal!]] Mr Schweitzer is in the hall for a change, you can see, because he is hardly there, he is going to start again. Usually he's never here. The proposal is relatively clear, you used to say it yourself: Don't take the educational budget as the place where you cut down massively! It's relatively simple. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How does the educational offensive look?]] It's easy: They just don't have to save so much on the educational budget. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Since you've been in Parliament, you haven't made a single proposal! Not a single proposal!]] [[Abg. Olympians: Go, Schweitzer!]] Mr. Schweitzer, is it really slow enough now? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Unable to submit a proposal!]] Mr Schweitzer, I am glad that I am so "inability" and in the discussions in schools I find that apparently the opposition is not the one that is perceived as incapable of education policy. Go to schools, hear what people are talking about you, about colleagues Amon, about the government, and then you will know who in this country is incapable of education policy! Certainly not the opposition! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: make a suggestion!]] Back to the Landeslehrer-Dienstleistrecht. . I don't need to make a proposal, we're talking about the budget accompanying law. We are not in the "proposal hour" but at the hour we have to judge what you have presented as a national teacher service law. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is innovative!]] And I'd like to do that now, even if you're still yelling so loud; at some point They're gonna stop again. The Landeslehrer Service Law has had several premises. They claimed, among other things, that it is based on the teacher's working time study. I would like to point out: That's not exactly what it does. The teacher working time study has shown that the teacher's working time is longer than what you have previously accepted. – Ms Minister, you laugh at the teacher's working time study; you may find it laughing. But the point is: If you give such an order, what you did – it was your job – then I would think that you also have a certain responsibility to take the results seriously and then not to say: The teachers have only judged themselves there! The fact is: It is certainly not possible to justify this national teacher service law with the teacher's working time study. – Point 1. Point 2 – and I'll be right back to you: You say you refused to increase the teaching obligation. Anyone who knows this system knows that this statement is not true. Of course, the formal teaching obligation has not been increased, but you break a system, and in this system there were billing hours, and on the basis of these discount hours the teaching obligation has finally been calculated. Now there are no more drop-off hours, so of course the teaching obligation is increased. You can turn it and turn it as you like. If you look at the data – and you confirm it – you will notice that teachers have to stand in the class longer. Admit yourself to that! Say, that's what you want, then you can at least have an open discourse! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What else should teachers teach?]] Mr Amon! For the basic democratic vote, which you have so often spoken about, and for the good involvement of compulsory school teachers, I would like to say to you here again: This vote looked so like the alternative said: Government savings plan or union savings plan. If that is all the union is presenting to its members, then, I think, it is also very interesting in terms of democratic understanding. It seems that the trade union is there to implement the government's measures. I believe that the trade union would also be entitled to represent the interests of its members, and it certainly did not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Take a look at Vorarlberg, for example! As the only ones, they have raised the question: Are you against the cuts? – It has come out that 96 percent are against the model. That would have been a clear task! But you can continue like that. You have seen on Sunday how good these measures are. It's not from somewhere. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You're coming down again! Now you're not even on the high horse! You're on a hippo!]] Look at what's going on in schools, and then continue as before! It seems that the ÖVP is particularly predestined for this; nothing is expected from the FPÖ there anyway, that is not the point. Nothing is expected from the FPÖ there! But something else would be expected of you from the ÖVP, but you are going exactly the way that you are simply implementing the education policy that the FPÖ provides. Minister of Finance Grasser, in an interesting opinion on Landeslehrer Service Law – I don't know, he or his ministry – said it wasn't enough, it belonged to the goal of achieving the OECD funding. I'm not quite sure what's going on right now. Mrs Gehrer said that this is not the case, it is not the government's objective. Maybe you can make that clear again. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Mrs Minister!]] The Minister of Justice is right! Then that is no longer what is in it; wonderful, that is a certain calming. That would have meant that you would need three hours more education to achieve what you want. But if you take it back here, I'm right. On the specific effects. The amendment also does not eliminate all existing concerns. At least I would like to mention a problem, apart from the overall situation: Real wages are being lost because teachers are being taught longer. By the way, the view that this measure would be necessary is not shared at all by the teachers. If you say so, Mr Amon, I cannot understand you at all. I don't know where you're from. There is a compulsory school teacher union, which has developed its own model, which looks slightly different, which may cost fewer posts but provides more savings on the assets. But that you say the teachers have wanted it, I think I've already brought it a little far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] They didn't realize the need at all! Look You face the threats made by you: Service measures, with all disciplinary procedures, are threatened. The services committees at the Gymnasia are to be prohibited from considering whether they are taking protest measures. It's working with this pressure! You can't say that's what you want. - Nothing is wanted at all. The fact is that there is massive resistance to these measures, and that is justified because there is no reason at all to cut them in this way. They only need to look at the salary development of teachers, which shows all the studies. They will not seriously say that teachers in Austria have had an above-average salary trend in recent years. They didn't have it. They are at the lower limit of what has happened to wage developments. [[Abg. Dolinschek: You don't believe what you're saying!]] And therefore, there is simply no understanding that one says that there must be massive savings in this area. But you're gonna do it anyway. The fact is: This state teacher service law does not take into account at all. One could have discussed a service right, but go here and say that we want to save several billions of schilling, and then base a service right, where exactly that happens – what is going to happen for a service right? This can never be a right to serve, according to criteria such as justice, where one has to discuss how a teacher’s performance is determined. But then you have to create other conditions, then you can't go here and say that the savings target is a lot of billion schilling, and then make a model on the basis of this savings target. How should this be associated with performance? How is it supposed to be connected with justice? The only thing you want is to put on the savings pen. That's the problem. [[Abg. Amon: Counter proposal!]] Counter proposal – quite simply, we have said this several times –: We want other budgetary weightings. Look at you doing something at the foundations, see that in other fiscal measures you finally come where we want to be, but leave the education system out and don't take this area as the main saving area! You do that, and for that you have, I would say once you look at it, now you get the bill presented in schools. You can continue to do it, it stands in your power, but you also have the opportunity to think about whether you should not have a dialogue here that doesn't look like you're just saying that's the goal, so much need to be saved. It is about really talking to the people, trying to talk to them to hear what measures are really necessary in the field of school at the moment. There are many... [[Abg. Amon: You say that the state teacher service law has not been spoken to the teachers?]] With the union, Mr Helm has been spoken! That's not the compulsory school teachers, it's your party colleague who tried to implement the government model. It's ridiculous to talk about the teachers there. These have been ÖVP representatives who made up this model! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] And the SPÖ spoke to Mr Modernitzky, but the SPÖ in the house is at least so far away from its union and the model will not be taken into account here. [[Abg. Amon: Those affected are very interesting!]] Although the SPÖ trade union cannot really be congratulated on this, it must at least be acknowledged that there will be a differentiated voting behaviour here in the House and that what the trade union has negotiated will not be taken into account because it is unbearable. Try to conduct a dialogue! Try not only to exercise power here and exert pressure, but enter into a dialogue! It'd be high time for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e5543	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e5564	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! During the speech of colleagues Brosz, a school class came to the gallery. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What stage?]] I tried to tell you: there were no 20 – but there are still some – and in all cases they came with a number of accompanying teachers. The teacher-student relationship I can see here is quite good. So there is no educational emergency yet. [[Abg. DDr. Declare: This is how you do your calculations. Now we know!]] You know, we have an excellent teacher-student relationship. That's the only thing you put forward on concrete demands: They want to continue to reduce the number of school students. This could be possible if this SPÖ had made a responsible financial policy in its 30 years of continuous government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have inherited a debt mountain that is as high as in no other EU country. In order to secure the future of these children, it is necessary to remove this debt mountain. And this is what this Federal Government is doing responsibly, unlike its predecessors. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Well, Mr Brosz – I do not know if I will do this again – I will first deal with the flat content of your speech. First of all: The original vote among compulsory school teachers has not only brought a very broad agreement to the model negotiated between the government and the union, i.e. the official representatives of teachers, but it has also been offered, contrary to what you have claimed, in addition to the possibility of choosing one of the two legal measures, the possibility of taking immediate trade union measures. The fact is that, despite this possibility, 80 percent of all teachers – with more than 80 percent of the vote – voted in favour of this model in discussion. This is the first one, Mr Brosz. Now to the second: to the real wage losses. Let's talk about the numbers, and let's talk about the AHS teachers, who are now once again, because primarily motivated by greens – I brought along these proposals you are making, and these are the only ones; I'll go through them later – and I want to strike. Let us take a look at the situation: They rise with a gross cover of 26 402 S and rise from a gross relation at grade 17 at the level of 49 935 S. [[Abg. Brosz: Who? Who?]] There are a large number of performance-oriented components that will be paid out in the future. How does it look? For school events, for example – you recommend: we cover all school events because everything is so unfair! – there is a daily fee of 465 S, which is 2 790 S per week, and a care allowance of 418 S per day, which is 2 508 S per week. This makes a total of 5 298 S per week in addition to normal remuneration. Or let us look at the matura preparation, Mr. Brosz – because teachers are paid "so bad": A teacher prepares five candidates for the Matura for three hours a week for a month. In addition to his basic salary, he receives the following payment: for every hour 2 768 S, which is in the month 8 304 S. And for each student, there is an increase of 356 S, which is 1 780 S in the month. That is, in addition to normal remuneration, there are 10 084 S. Or: For class executives there are 20 000 S per year in addition to salary. Kustodiat: 16 000 S in addition. For a ski week – I have already said – 5 298 S, for matura preparation: 10 084 p. It is therefore possible to earn additional 51 000 S by means of additional benefits. Mr Brosz, these are figures that are quite fine, and in 2001 too, these salaries are quite one of the service providers in this country. So there really is no reason to strike, and for the Greens there is really no reason to stir up teachers with things like the call for targeted illness of the Pragmatized due to acute circulatory weakness in the sight of the salary bill. – These are your only proposals that you are putting into education policy, Mr Brosz! That's all: Strike because we don't want this government! Be against it because we don't want to! – Although the majority is for it. [[Abg. Oillinger: Back to the gym, Mr. Schweitzer!]] And that's the problem: They obviously cannot deal with democratic majority voting. They cannot accept it if teachers opt for a new service right by 80 percent, and cannot accept a government that is behind most of the Austrian population. [[Abg. Oils: Which major?]] You do not want to take note of the results of democratic elections! That's your problem. You have a problem with democracy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You will never have a majority in this country! For your ideas, you will never be able to inspire the majority of the population and never the majority of teachers, because your ideas are limited to what I do not want to do at all. [[Abg. Oellinger: Thank you for your God, too!]] [[Abg. Oils: Anti-Semitism, Racism is not a majority, thanks to God!]] Mr Brosz! You now have the 15th or 20th. You've been talking since you were in this house. They have not yet put forward a single concrete proposal for the improvement of education policy. You are unable to do this, Mr Brosz, because you have no idea of the matter. Get out and criticize things superficially, that's a little bit. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This new teacher's right has been negotiated with the teachers for a long period of time, improved and will be decided today in the interest of the young people attending our schools. We will have to wait a long time for your proposals. I'm sure you won't be able to bring in any constructive. This is typical green policy as we have known it ever since.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e5725	Mr Brosz spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, § 58 para. 2 GOG to take into account and start playing on the claim you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e5757	Mr Schweitzer has just said a lot; I really want to correct three things. First, he claimed that there would have been three options in the original vote. – That’s not true, that’s wrong! The right thing is: There were two options that were evaluated against each other, and an additional question, which was specially evaluated. This is not in relation to the first two questions. In addition, the additional question was formulated with a condition, namely that this will only happen if the model is not adopted. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What was that?]] – I am in the corrective position, I have only two minutes, and I have corrected this so far. The second point: They claimed that the AHS teachers rose with a gross salary of more than 26 000 S. – That is also incorrect! According to salary scheme 2000, the entry content of the AHS teachers is 22 903 p. – This is also incorrect, but I am not correcting it now. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: They get in with grade 4! Didn't you understand that?]] Third incorrect claim: The Greens would have called on them to report sickly after the salary bill. You always quote a website of the ÖLI-UG. – "UG" does not stand for "and greens", but ÖLI-UG stands for "Austrian teachers' initiative – independent trade unionists". So that's not the greens. I'd trust you so much humor that At least you recognize that. In anti-Semitic humour, you are perfect, which you recognize wonderful. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is a speech!]] But if it's recommended to get sick after the salary bill is seen, then believe It seems to me that this is very serious. Please, leave it with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e5819	The next speaker was Mr Rada. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e5841	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! It is almost a scandal – I would like to say this clearly here – if, in the face of the number of pupils present in the gallery, Member Schweitzer, he assumes that they are accompanying persons, there are too many here. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You didn't listen to that!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That's a premise!]] You have expressed this in your speech. You do not know, Mr Schweitzer, what kind of class this is about. You certainly don't know if they're teachers, you don't know if they're accompanying people, because as far as I see the teachers at the visitor gallery, they don't have a mesh that suggests they're teachers, but I still welcome them very warmly. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to refer in my speech to the contributions made by two previous speakers. First of all: Mr Amon! I shall certainly take you to the floor, I have written this very carefully: They have said that teachers will be admitted in Lower Austria in the next school year. – Every single person we will take up in Lower Austria – and I know what I am talking about – you must call me by name. Maybe you know more. On the contrary: We will no longer extend service contracts in Lower Austria in the next school year, Mr Amon! That's a fact! [[Abg. Amon: There you are badly informed! The election campaign is over!]] They're talking about the admission of teachers. But there will be no such thing, just the opposite will be the case. A second one: Member of the European Parliament has today spoken boldly of full employment and has expressed praise for it. I'd be very pleased if he were right. But the fact is, we're going to have a teacher drop. – Only so much for full employment. When it comes to the Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz, I would also like to make a comment on basically positive aspects: Teachers are not half-day workers. Teachers are not those who only have vacations. This is also known by Mr Schweitzer from his former career. Teachers have a lot to do. It is therefore positive to assess that it is also presented accordingly that a great deal of annual work is done. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Brosz.]] It should also be noted, however, that this new law on State Teachers' Service Law was not just created to improve teachers, but to save a total of 1.2 billion schilling. This too must be clearly stated, and this is also the subject in these budgetary negotiations. Therefore, a second consideration can be quite imaginable. One thing is also true – and that is why we also come to these savings in service posts – that the number of teaching hours has simply been increased. Mrs. Federal Minister, we can't discuss this away. In view of the time, I can no longer address block 1, teaching, but I am very concerned that in areas 2 and 3, not only regulations can occur, but very, very many overregulations. I am very concerned about this; I have already said this in the Committee on Budgets. What about pre- and post-preparation periods? What about the correction hours? In the future, how will an over-cautious school management, an over-cautious school supervision control these corrective hours with an advisory teacher, with a legathenia teacher, with a teacher for body education or work education? Which control mechanisms will be installed? One last, Mrs. Minister: When it comes to talking about the correction, we compare: What about the corrective work of a mathematics teacher with a class of teaching, and what about the corrective work of a German teacher with three classes? I claim – since I am a mathematics teacher myself – that the German teacher will have much more work in correcting. And I also claim that this model is being treated unfairly and that the old model has been a much better model. One last: We have planned 10 hours in block 3 for parent talks. Mrs. Federal Minister! I underline your care for an early warning system, and I underline your care for the individual promotion programs, but at least these 10 hours a teacher has to do this work within a week in order to fulfil these tasks.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e5930	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Sweitzer to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and – Deputies! An actual correction shall begin with the reproduction of the claim to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e5955	Mr President. I'll correct twice. First of all, Mr Rada, who probably claimed because of a hearing mistake – otherwise I can't imagine it – that I would have said that there were too many teachers with the student group. On the contrary, Mr Rada: I have said that the number of teachers accompanying this group of students is quite beautiful and that this reflects the very pleasing teacher-student ratio in Austria, which is 1 to 10. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Mr Brosz has strongly acknowledged that he has no idea as to the salary scheme of L1 teachers. [[Abg. Brosz: This is not an actual correction!]] He claimed that L1 teachers rose by about 20,000 s. – Mr Brosz! In fact, L1 teachers enter grade 4, which means 26 402 S gross. That's really right!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e5996	Deputies! The second part was no longer an actual correction. Mrs Gehrer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6021	Mr President. High house! I believe that, particularly in the field of education, a technical discussion is very important, but one should also remain objective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Brosz claimed that the education system was used as a main saving area. – Mr Brosz! I have to disprove this – or thank God –: In 2002, the education budget reached the highest proportion of the expenditure of all resorts that has ever existed. The education budget has a share of 13.72 percent of the total budget. This is the highest there ever was. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In 1998, expenditure on education was around 7 billion y, and in 2002 it will be around 8 billion y. That's more to 1 billion j more! It should also be noted that expenditure on education has increased more than expenditure for the other departments. Expenditure on the other sectors in the general budget increased by around 4.5 percent, while expenditure on education increased by 8.5 percent. I would ask you to take this seriously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, we did not do this in the old distribution system, but we set priorities. We spend more money on the "computer billions", we spend more money on research, and we spend more money on the facilities of universities. I would also like to start with what Mr Rada said, namely that control mechanisms must be strengthened in the new law of the State Teachers' Service, which we are now discussing. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a great fear of me that all district school inspectors will suddenly come here and control exactly every teacher for the minute. That's not what it's all about! It is about the teachers personally and themselves describing their total annual working time. So far, there have been the lessons. Now the teacher says, I need so much for the preparation, so much for the follow-up, so much for the parent talks. It is not a question of the inspectors exercising their control rights more closely. Inspectors have a completely new task. Inspectors are regional school managers who need to advance the development of the school together with the directors, together with teachers. This new law of state teaching, which we are discussing today, is a very important development. Why is it necessary to put in place structural measures? It was not even disputed by Mr SPÖ Finance Minister Edlinger that structural measures should be put in place. After an increase in the number of posts in the 1980s, following an unhindered debt, it is necessary to consolidate the budget after accompanying budget expenditure. This is the task of a responsible government. We have chosen the following way: We want to see that, in relation numbers between students and teachers, we are more aligned with what is common in Europe in the course of the hours that the teacher is in the class. But we have just taken nothing away from the resources for the students in the AHS and BHS areas. It is not true that fewer resources are available in these areas. I think this is particularly important. If you say, just in Vorarlberg, great resentment about the new LDG is going to be loud and there are so many service posts being dismantled, then I have to keep the headline that was in the newspaper recently: Teacher personnel reduction: Stemer, the competent Council of State and National School Council President, "gives warning". It is therefore not true that there are such special difficulties that a particularly large number of teachers are being reduced in compulsory school teachers. Ladies and gentlemen! This new Landeslehrer Service Law is a project that works with an annual working time model that will be tested for four years and will bring us new insights. It is a modern service right. If we have two additional requests here in Parliament, which are particularly relevant to special leave, I must make one clear: Special leave is used to prepare for early retirement. It was never remembered that someone going on a special vacation should be replaced immediately by a young teacher. We want to achieve our goal by giving as many teachers as possible the opportunity to take early retirement so that we can continue to employ the young teachers in our schools. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's also wrong that there are pension cuts. There is an early retirement model that a teacher can use voluntarily. This early retirement model was prepared with you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, was approved by you and also decided by you. It's a good model, it's a good offer, it's a good social plan for teachers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If we are talking today about the general development of politics, ladies and gentlemen, it is already possible for people to move in the short term when targeted panics are carried out when fears are startled when insecure. This seems to be the response of the opposition to the challenges of the future. But I'll tell you one thing: By 2003, people will notice that this budget consolidation will secure jobs, strengthen economic power, invest in education and research, and thus give young people a future. I thank all teachers who work hard and with great commitment for the future of youth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Due to additional investments, such as computer billions, unimillards, research billions, our education system will play in the world class in the next few years. That is our answer to the challenges, and that is our future design.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6145	Mr Rada spoke in favour of an actual correction. He knows § 58 GOG very well.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6191	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'm afraid there was a hearing error in this case too. I have not claimed that there will have to be reinforced controls to check the pots 2 and 3, but I said I fear there will be increased controls.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6246	Mr Feurstein is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Your speaking time is adjusted to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6267	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to what the first speaker, Mrs Bures, said. She once again pointed out where everything needs to be saved. Ladies and gentlemen! Why now needs to be saved in 2001 and 2002? – Because in 30 years a debt volume of 200 000 S per Austrian and Austrian has been set up. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I don't want to strip the students on the gallery. But, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, by the Social Democrats, your finance ministers have built up this volume of 200 000 S, which needs to be clarified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If these debts had not been built up, we would be facing another situation today. The government, which has been in office for a little over a year now, has shown that it can reasonably save, and I commit myself to what honourable Member Trattner said: Of course, there and there corrections are necessary. But in principle the course is right, ladies and gentlemen. We have to get away from the debt, and we have to get away from the re-indebtedness. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We did that too. I'd like to... [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] You can yell as much as you want now. Your cries testify that you have a bad conscience, Mrs Bauer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whoever screams is always in opposition and has a bad conscience. That's it. [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Minister of Education has clearly shown that important emphasis will be placed on education. And you should note that the 2002 education budget has the highest share of the total budget that has ever been available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Under no previous minister, there was such a high share of the education budget in the total budget. We should recognize this instead of pretending to be bad. Mr Brosz! You have also found very nice words here, but you have not shown us any alternatives and possibilities as to how to get out of the difficulties. And I'm very clear to you: Just as important as the educational situation, which is important to us and the Minister of Education, we have heard this again today and can take note of it, are also the older people, pensioners and pensioners. You know that for this reason, from unemployment insurance we provide 15 billion schilling for pensioners, for pensioners, ladies and gentlemen. In view of these 15 billion schillings, it is always criticized that too high amounts are being made available here. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] I am going to justify this. Mr Oellinger, you know the opinion commissioned by Mrs Hostasch, who says that not 15 billion schilling is necessary for the recognition of replacement periods in pension insurance, but 23.5 billion schilling. For the unemployed, the 15 billion cover exactly the time of replacement. So the 15 billion schillings are exactly the amount to be paid from unemployment insurance for the replacement periods in pension insurance. Let us be glad that this government has taken this step towards honesty in pension financing rather than covering everything just over the federal grant. This path is the only right one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, this budget accompanying law contains two other important points. I am very glad that the situation will be remedied for emergency workers. The emergency aid providers will again receive the dynamization of their emergency aid through this law retroactively with 1. January 2001. This is a very important measure which is being put in place here. I also have to say that, unfortunately, when the SPÖ vote in the Committee on Budgets, it has not recognised that this measure is very important for emergency aiders. Unfortunately, they did not agree. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] We will put in place another important measure for the labour market, for the people in difficulty, especially in certain branches of the food industry. We will extend the "Auflebung" work foundation because this work foundation has shown that this can be very reasonable and very successful for the people who are in trouble in connection with the BSE crisis. We will also make a request on the basis of the discussion in the Committee on Budgets, which provides that not only the opportunity for entry to the "Relive" Foundation will be extended by one year, but also the duration. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Why did you vote down our request?]] I need to correct you: They have not made an official request to the Budget Committee on this point. We will do these things and through the Foundation "Relive" those people who have difficulties offering the opportunity to get out of the difficulties. We are convinced that these people, who can become unemployed now and there, may also find a reasonable alternative on the labour market again through the "Relive" foundation, ladies and gentlemen. In this sense, I believe that this budget accompanying law contains a whole series of very valuable, important and forward-looking aspects.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6375	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6396	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The only positive thing one can say about this budget accompanying law is that it is clearly different to its extent from the previous laws. They were much more extensive. It's relatively slim. But that's really the only thing. I should like to say a few words about the great words that the Members of the Government have already spoken, for example, Mr Amon, who said that today's debts are the taxes and the unemployed of tomorrow, if I do so at such rates, then it will be very bitter. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, then it will really be very bitter for you! In fact, one could also take a different sentence with fug and law: Today's renovated budget is the missing infrastructure of tomorrow. [[Abg. Großruck: This is Karl Marx...!]] Mr Grossruck! That too would be imaginable. I do not want to live in a country where, as in the United States, not only the streets are broken, but also the school system, where the only thing that works, is the prison system with which people are then tried to keep under control. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is not the idea of a country I want to live in. This idea shares with me, as I mean, many other Austrians. Yes, we want to spend something on education. Yes, we want to do something about poverty in this country, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we stand by it. Certain of your actions – and unfortunately there are a lot of them – go at the expense of those who can least need it. In the field of education, they go at the expense of children and young people. Mr Schweitzer from FPÖ expects: There are two accompanying teachers sitting with the students on the gallery, and that is why the student-teacher-ratio is so great. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know when Mr Schweitzer was in a school the last time. He's on a side job. I think he's a gym teacher. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Isn't that a school?]] [[Abg. Böhacker: What do you have against gym teacher? Are the people second-class?]] Mr Böhacker! At least I don't know about classes where two teachers or two teachers are inside. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the majority of school classes, teachers in language classes with 29, 30 students in the class are quite different. And we know what it means to teach big classes in language teaching. This is just as pleasant for the students as it is for the teachers, and above all it does not help to get a good education and to gain a good language. Mr Böhacker! For this the classes must be much smaller. I hope that's also informative for you. There are certain things that everyone still has in mind from school, namely how to learn best. In language teaching, it is especially small classes. [[Abg. Böhacker: Am I one of those stupid ones? We were 31 students in a class!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on another chapter: Unemployment insurance. Mr Feurstein told me: Taking away 15 billion schilling for the purpose of pension insurance, that is exactly what unemployment insurance has to pay. That's not true, I answered him in an intermediate call, and it's actually not true. No matter how you turn it or turn it, Ladies and gentlemen – and I also know the calculations given to the Ministry of Social Affairs – whether I calculate the replacement periods on the part of the contribution or on the part of the benefit, please explain to me, Mr Böhacker, the sound home mind, which is also intended to be a tax advisor, why, in the case of declining unemployment rates, unemployment insurance benefits rise for pension insurance! You know, Secretary of State, that this can't match. If unemployment rates rise and therefore replacement time pay increases, then benefits for pension insurance should increase. But it is you and the Federal Government and the coalition parties who explain to us once again that unemployment is going back strongly – and that is why the time for replacement has to be reduced. She doesn't. Please explain to me, Mr State Secretary, since you have already promised me in the Committee the appropriate figures, why child care is not provided for a replacement time allowance! Explain this to me! Then I'll tell you a sentence: Today's childcare allowance is the missing pension payments from tomorrow. That's the answer to your babysitting allowance. It is an incredible meaning, but significant, if the Federal Government then submits a decision to the National Council's main committee: "The Federal Government is asked to present to the Stockholm European Council the Austrian strategy of an offensive family policy, as last documented with the introduction of the childcare allowance" - I do not read the other, as the "primary" provision for pensions is still present - to "integrate into the evaluation of the Lisbon strategy and into the consultation of the further process, while continuing to call for strict compliance with the principle of subsidiarity." This is a decision of the National Council's main committee. Ladies and gentlemen! Aside from the fact that this is a word don't mean anything but: We in Austria are knocking on our shoulders because we have a child care allowance that we do not yet know what it will look like, but we are proposing it all over Europe. We are so great in the field of family policy. That is why we go back to Austria and say that we have shown it properly to those in Europe. We're great! We do not know what will come, we do not know how we want to finance this in ten years in the field of pensions, but we are great. We have no idea. – This is the policy of this federal government. I could add one more point: what you have said about the Council of Ministers today on the example of ambulance charges, because you still do not know what you should know for a long time, namely that the old regulation was bureaucratic, that what you declare as the new regulation is no less bureaucratic, but above all it is a burden for people and will not have any steering effect that you have not claimed, but to claim. If, moreover, you explain something different before the Council of Ministers, such as Prime Minister, than after the Council of Ministers, then it turns out once again that you are not even as simple as the ambulance charges we told you about a year ago: That's bureaucratic, you can't, you can't do that the way you've planned it! I can still remember very well the debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. And then you'll make it all the less of a babysitting money you drove to Stockholm to knock on your shoulders, that you have a great babysitting money, which you don't know how it works. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! If you don't do this at the ambulance fees, if you don't do this in the childcare allowance, then you should actually pull the consequence of it and go into it. In this respect, I would like to criticize my previous speaker, Mr Brosz, who asked you to discuss the matter differently from me. I think you're not dialogueable, you're not even capable of putting your own words here in decisions that somehow understand your own promises. [[Abg. Böhacker: You are not governmentable, as the German Greens prove!]] This is the real disaster: What you're planning on with the childcare money you still don't know what it's supposed to look like is a burden for the future. This is a burden on women. This is a burden for those who want to retire in 20 years. You should draw the consequences of taking your nose – the nose has already become a little longer – and above all with the promises you made, be more cautious. They cannot, ladies and gentlemen, go before the National Council with any convincing approach from the government parties and remain consistent.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6504	The next speaker was Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6525	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Oellinger, what do we have? You said to gymnasts because you spoke so detestingly about gymnasts and said that he was only gymnasts in the secondary profession? They seem to have not been in school for a long time or are not volunteering in a sports club as a children's and youth trainer, otherwise you will know how important gym teachers are in school. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Look You're looking at today's youth! – Many young people have obesity, lack of exercise, they can hardly run properly. Therefore, it is extremely important that gymnasts are also active. [[Abg. Oillinger: Is the sweater in the gym?]] This, Mr Oellinger, is the first one. Secondly, on your proposals, which you bring again and again. – Look You once after Germany, where the Greens are in the Federal Government: one election defeat after another for the Greens. Once you bear responsibility, you know relatively quickly where it is going. In the "Süddeutsche Zeitung" one could read: The fall of the Greens in the Federal Republic continues. [[Abg. Oellinger: There God is not a Freedom Party! That's also very important!]] But now to the budget accompanying law, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I should like to make the following request before I go into the comments made by my previous speakers: [[Quoted print version removed]] This ensures that the implementation of the Milk Agreement is also financed accordingly and that the investigations related to the Krško nuclear power plant continue to be covered financially. Ladies and gentlemen! To the Budgetary Accompaniment Act: The Federal Government, above all Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser and State Secretary Finz, promised the Austrian citizens a stopover for 2002. This federal government has not only promised to stop this load, but will also implement it. This law on budget support alone is the evidence put forward in figures and words that there will be no new burden on citizens in 2002. This is the reform policy of the Federal Government! If Mrs Bures is speaking here today of a final point in the context of this budget accompanying law, then she has been unconsciously right. It's a conclusion, there's no new tax burden. But if, on the other hand, it repeatedly tries to warm up the burdens and rehabilitation measures, then social democracy may soon be reminded of what it has so decided in the Structural Adjustment Act. The general tax deduction amount has been cut down and abolished over an income of 500 000 s. Special expenditure has been cut by half. A maximum of 590 S was introduced during the overtime period, which remains tax-free. In times such as those where there is a shortage of labour and those who want to work more, these are still being punished by the SPÖ Finance Ministers' action. The beneficiary tax of the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary has been massively worsened by social democracy! The exemption notices for the taxable persons were suspended for two years. The taxpayers, the workers and employees, have had to finance the reforms of the Social Democratic Finance Ministers. Income tax and corporate tax prepayments have been increased. For the years 1996 and 1997 the losses were suspended to 100 percent. Now you're upset because the loss talks are only able to be deceivable by more than 75 percent. The rent deposit has been abolished, which has led to an increase in rents. – Action taken by the Social Democrats! The savings account tax was increased from 22 to 25 percent. This was especially the small savers. 25 percent is a super tax rate for a large earner; for the small saver, 25 percent of the capital income tax on interest is quite high. The depreciation rate for the cars was reduced to 12.5 percent for the companies. The pre-tax deductions for tax trucks were restricted. They have introduced a tax on electricity and natural gas, an energy tax that was mostly to be borne by households. Tobacco tax was increased by 10 percent and many things more. This list could continue endlessly. I ask the colleagues from the union, from the Chamber of Labour: Where was the cry of non-social confidence? Where was the yelling, the strong trade union heart when it came to kicking the little ones? – There was silence, there were no reactions, there was no unconditional consent to everything without When and But. Nevertheless, despite these measures, despite these loads, have more than 120 billion schilling You leave behind a debt mountain of 2 200 billion schilling. They were not too good to cut the care money by 2 billion schilling. – All the non-social, deeply non-social measures you have taken. And the union has kept silent, the Chamber of Workers has kept silent. The strong heart of the railways, Mr Edler, has also not been cast on the rails for a more socially just rehabilitation policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Because always comes from the countries of the yelling: We're being burdened too much! We can't make a budget surplus! – To this end, it is clear to the national leaders that in 2002 – compared to 2001 – the percentages of income of the countries will be increased in a massive way: By 365 million ye, and by 284 million ye, the municipalities receive more income. These are increases of at least 5.4 percent and 4.6% for countries and municipalities. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the time is running out, so I'm about to conclude: [[Abg. Eder: You not only run away from the time, but the voters also run away from it!]] Rehabilitation of the budget is not something that happens from jux and tollery! These Federal Governments, these government parties, are rehabilitating in the interests of a debt-free future of all generations. We guarantee pensions, we want to maintain full employment – and we want a happy future for our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6646	The amendment tabled by Mr Böhacker is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Huber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6671	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Böhacker, you are running a lot of it: not only the time, but obviously the voters too! But what are you worried about? [[Abg. Böhacker: Mrs. Colleague, can I tell you something?]] People want to think you're worried about what happened in Vienna yesterday. But, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr Böhacker is concerned about the losses of the elections of the Greens in Germany! That's very remarkable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Bayern-Munich doesn't win every game either – and still becomes a master again and again!]] It is clear and clear that the 2002 budget continues the unilateral wave of stress. It does not matter to the coalition parties at all to let small and medium earners bled for this myth "zero deficit". They are massively shrinking the workers, the pensioners of our country, and the wage tax alone has just exploded by 18 percent for 2001 and 2002! 31 billion schilling! [[Abg. Böhacker: There are more employees and there is a higher wage level! You should take note of this!]] On the other hand, billions are going to be – and that's the perfide! – for a child's allowance, from which one does not know how it will look, also for large farmers or, for example, for the German army. [[Abg. Böhacker: You have a very bad short-term memory!]] [[Further call to the liberals.]] The real income of Austrians – and that is what is worrying – will fall far below the EU average, which shows all forecasts. Austria, which has reached the income trend, has been hit by the overcrowding. [[Abg. Böhacker: Yes, yes, that's what the Edlinger said!]] And people feel all this in their wallet! – But in this situation there is still here and to say that there has been a stop from stress, and – with better knowledge – to say that 75 percent of people are not at all affected by this, I think, is already a strong piece! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is an increase of those Austrians who have to spend their money carefully, because they don't have so much – and who really have to turn around every schilling. But they are now being taxed more and more strongly: by tax increases, by higher fees, by fees that have partly doubled! In this context, I would just mention: Introduction of study fees, ambulance fees, taxation of accident pensions, removal of contribution-free co-insurance, reduction of family allowances in relation to unemployment benefit, pension reductions and so on. [[Abg. Böhacker: How was the reduction in the amount of the care allowance? How was that with the clearance notice? Where were you?]] The list of all your atrocities is long – and you've got the bill presented for it, because people may well have a sense of justice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now, on the budget accompanying law, I would like to say a few words about the law on the establishment of the food agency, because this agency has left no more than one motion for a resolution. For me, it is incomprehensible why this Federal Government and why the Minister of Health and Consumer Protection, in particular, hold on to such a construction. It is claimed that there would be more effective control of the food and there would also be cost savings due to synergies. – But if you look at this construction, you can see that you can achieve a goal at best: possibly less costs. Now I ask you: Is that really the ultimate objective: to save, to save! – even if it concerns the safety of food, even if it concerns human health? BSE, hormones, antibiotics, foot-and-mouth disease: All of this has insecured consumers. But what is it? Your answer? – No change in the unfortunate recovery of food production and food control. The Minister of Agriculture even wants to take a lead in this food agency. What else is planned? – The food agency is expected to reduce the cost of the food scandal, which is likely to be more expensive and therefore more expensive, through orders from the economy. – Faith Do you really think that food control will show equally harsh and unconditional violations of food law if this control is financially dependent on this economy?- Oh, my God! – Even in the United States, where the state really leaves everything that is only possible to the market, food control is, of course, a task of sovereignty. Austria has an extremely high standard in food safety. Do not put this standard at risk for God's sake – precisely by the planned distribution of food control! Safety, labelling and control standards from the field to the shop table are now expected for consumers. Therefore, you will pool the know-how of all control facilities, from feed to food control, exclusively – I emphasize: exclusively – in the Ministry of Health and Consumer Protection! Otherwise, this food agency can only become a placebo.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6814	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6835	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Although much has already been said about the Landeslehrer Service Law, part of the Budgetary Accompaniment Act, misunderstandings and false figures must not stand, so that I will start correcting colleagues at the same time. I think that talking about "educational emergency", the speech of "risk for education" is absolutely dangerous, because may be – God guard! – There are real dangers elsewhere and in other contexts, then we may be overstepped because at the wrong place "Alarm!" It's been called. Mr. Ollinger, this is an alarm in the wrong place! And I'll be happy to prove this to you. Mr Brosz, on behalf of Mr Schweitz, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on the interlocutory calls: Make a suggestion! They have, in principle, agreed to the savings target, always referred to "other fiscal measures". I wrote this. I now ask you, Mr Brosz, Mr Oellinger: What "other fiscal measures", which education tax, which social tax or what family tax do you want to introduce to achieve? What "other fiscal measures" you have spoken of, would you like to introduce? [[Abg. Oillingers: There are already enough loads!]] I'll tell you: No need to be introduced – and this federal government will not introduce any, for our way you will also have the confirmation by the President of the Vienna Council of State Schools, by Mr Mayor Häupl. It was not only Mayor Häupl who said that he could "define" the saving, but also, on 17 April, that he was able to do so. In October 2000, after the financial compensatory negotiations, he said: We won!", according to the city's head. "We won!", how does that fit together with: "It's a danger in delay!", or: "Too much is saved in education!"? And this "We have won!"-The statement is also supplemented or confirmed by the President-in-Office of the Scholz City School Council of Vienna, who in an issue said that a loss of quality in the school could not be the talk. And more scoundrel literally: Against all resistance and against all unconventions, the well-equipped Vienna school system can continue to be guaranteed. - Quote. Where, Mr Oellinger, can you say that your "scenario" will result in a "reduction of planning sites" and a "depth limitation of the quality of education"?- Oh, my God! Mr Oellinger, Mr Brosz, please take expert opinions – and those I have pointed out here – seriously! Of course, it is now possible to say to Mr Landeshuptmann and Mayor Häupl that he can take himself seriously. Mr Rada! I also recall a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, in which you said you were concerned that this new model of working time could not be monitored. - I'm wondering: In what time, in which world we actually live when you call for more control measures – yes, that was! – and if you have little confidence in the base, little confidence also as a member of the National School Inspectors' Conference, Mr Rada, even have little confidence in your own district school inspectors, little confidence in your own directors – and little confidence in your own teachers! - I'm horrified, I can only say. [[Objection to the SPÖ]] A new centralism, a new control body should not be reintroduced, and teachers also want to regulate their own affairs to the maximum possible extent at school itself. And that will be possible for them with this new law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that quality continues to prevail in the school sector. We have started the times of pedagogical autonomy in many fields of education, both in the university and in the school sector – and there for a long time. And if there is school profile education, if there is the direct reacting ability to the environment, to the special conditions of the students and the questioning parents, and we can take this into account in particular, i.e. school autonomy as educational autonomy, we can now also introduce service autonomy by means of this time law. As I said, I do not wish for any new control facilities, and I do not agree with the trade union or trade union representatives on the right of representation, which the Greens have done very well. I believe that this educational and solidarity pact can only be accepted or congratulated on it. I am very glad that this act has been put in place – and that a service right autonomy can be initiated as a further modernisation step. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6898	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e6919	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor wanted us to make a constructive proposal on how we finance education, how we want to drive education financially. . We have put forward such a proposal here more often, but I do not care to repeat it here, because I think that our proposal is very good. First of all, we from the Greens do not want any interception hunters, no additional tanks. That would bring billions of schilling, billions, which we not only put into education, but with which we could push forward a technology offensive, but not a thick tank skin. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] And a second, quite specific proposal on how to transform in favour of education. Mr President, you yourself are, I believe, beneficiaries of an Austrian institution that is nowhere else, not worldwide. In Austria there is the Stiftungs – with all its generosity, which is truly unique. What do you think you could do by taxing foundations to finance educational institutions!? – One would be at least 4 to 6 billion schilling! That would be our second concrete proposal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since many of my previous speakers have talked about school, teachers and various problems in this context, I would like to address the following small details: In school, it is often supplied. I did not know, however, that people are being sent from Parliament to supplies in municipal elections. Now here – I am saving you reading the APA – we have a typical case of supply: There is a representative named Dr. Helene Partik-Pablé, who – supplier-like, spring-like, as it is used to in school – had to change over in the Vienna election campaign, there with a lack of time and need prevented a total crash of FPÖ, but this – comparatively – there well-representing FPÖ summit candidate will not be left there, but ruck, back, as is the case in the school in the supply sector, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé immediately returns to Parliament, because according to APA, she is "nearly unreplaceable". "Too inreplaceable," said her clubman Westenthaler, and he also said: The end of Dr. Partik-Pablé in the municipal council would leave a big "gap" in Parliament. [[Abg. Oillinger: (on empty bank lines at the Freeman's significance) Yes, a huge gap!]] Unfortunately, we still have this gap, but I think Mrs Partik-Pablé will certainly fill this gap again soon because of the "wise" supply policy of FPÖ. Now back to another area: There are a total of 120 000 teachers in Austria, and there are at least 120 000 tenants in Austria who are affected by the 2001 budget accompanying law, which needs to be repaired. Mr Finz, you are certainly also interested – we have already talked about it – in the fact that the State has managed to obtain revenue, and for this purpose you have sought the abolition of non-profit in the federal homes in the 2001 budget accompanying law. Only a small mistake has happened to you by the coalition parties, and now, of course, this must be repaired, namely in Article 12. And this is happening in a constitutional manner. They did not think that there was a co-owner among the railways' fellow-owners, namely the cities of Bruck at the Mur und Mürzzuschlag. And these shares of 1 000 s each could now be sold by the railway community, so that they were no longer 100 percent in federal ownership. In any case, you would have gone to the 21,000 apartments, so to speak, through the rags that could have remained non-profit, because they could not have been forced – in the sense of 100 percent federal ownership – to lose their public utility. Now there is exactly this article 12, which is constitutionally very worrying, with which you are retroactively introducing a reference date from which it is no longer possible, if you were 100 percent in federal ownership, to strip off this federal property so to speak. This deadline is as follows: 23. ==References== And now you want a budget-accompanied law, only after the 31st century. May 2001 will come into force – the deadline for this open-in or open-out – to fix this error. You are likely to succeed on the basis of your parliamentary majority, but still a lot remains unexplained constitutionally, or a lot is quite worrying. And something else is important in connection with 120 000 tenants living in state-owned apartments – a pity that the Minister of Finance is not here –: This is because today a working group is working on how to sell these apartments. And in this working group there is a very competent gentleman, who is at the same time Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the BUWOG, namely Ernst Karl Plech. He has already been known to us as a longtime faithful financier of the former FPÖ partyman and current "simple party member". There is no doubt that there is incompatibility! In this context, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance today – and I now ask you, Secretary of State Dr. Finz: Don't you see an inconsistency in the fact that a BUWOG board of directors is working at the same time in a working group that is concerned with selling BUWOG apartments very, very cheaply? [[Call the SPÖ: This is more than worrying!]] And now that's what I've just prophesied: The sale to the tenants, the offer of Mr. Finanzminister, which is always discussed here as a great promise by Mr Tancsits to acquire the offer to tenants, housing property, is to be reversed, according to the project of this working group, because – our prophecy thus occurs – only 20 percent of the tenants are interested in buying. And a house in which 20 percent are located in scatters, i.e. the housing property of tenants, is especially of great interest to investors. I can prove this to you as well: In Upper Austria, Director Scharinger of the Raiffeisen Landesbank Oberösterreich has already expressed his interest in WAG apartments – but only if he receives them all in Bausch and Bogen. However, this does not mean that Mr Finanzminister's promise will be fulfilled. How is that supposed to fit all this together? I am not only putting this question into space, but I would also like to have answered this question – especially in view of the fact that this working group is meeting here and today, that a well-known FP member is turning the screw towards international investors and thus threatening to reverse Mr Finanzminister's promise. That would really be an interesting starting point, since this federal government has always promised to make rents cheaper, only: Living will not be cheaper if large investors want to buy home property and rent it at winning conditions. Because what does Director Scharinger say about this? – He wants to impose a large real estate fund, creating an investment opportunity through the Raika Upper Austria, which brings capital into the housing area. But this only happens when he has lucrative objects, and he only has them if the WGG is deregulated altogether. Mr Tancsits has already said: He always says he wants to introduce a pattern statue. His "pattern status" is exactly what we had before the WGG, which is a step back, which is the safety of the tenants. And so this budget accompanying law also represents a kind of damocles sword for many tenants. Not only 120,000 teachers are affected by this budget accompanying law, but most likely also 120,000 tenants. That is another of these acts, which we can only call a scrapping act on the part of the opposition to the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e7021	The next speaker was Mr Schwarzenberger. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e7042	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The government proposal on the 2002 budget accompanying law also provided for an agency for food security; Mrs Huber has already mentioned this briefly in her speech. – Negotiations in this context, however, have shown that it will be a very extensive legislative work and therefore it seems useful to give this bill in consideration so that countries can also bring their ideas in, for what is going on in the field of control is that the countries and the federal government are involved in the division of competences. It would, of course, be useful where the countries are prepared to hand over their competences to the Food Agency. First, it was planned to equip the food agency only at the federal level with federal competence and the food agency in so far as this agreement can be concluded with the countries, just as the tasks of the countries in this area are concerned. However, it is now planned that, as far as the countries agree to this, country control officers will also be included in this law. In a time of uncertainty caused by the European BSE crisis, we can only regain the confidence of consumers with quality and safety strategy. Reclaiming consumer confidence in this area is a priority objective. This applies, of course, to agriculture, and therefore the aim of this Food Safety Agency is to pool and concentrate the responsibilities in the field of food production as a whole. With this Food Safety Agency, the control can be ensured from the field to the loading table. At the same time, we will carry out beef and veal actions from the Austrian Farmers' Federation in spring and throughout Austria and will discuss them with consumers. We have also proposed to carry out the "open farm" action in spring, but this is unfortunately not possible because of the foot-and-mouth disease in Western Europe, since such an additional danger would be present. However, this action will be carried out very well after the fading of foot-and-mouth disease in Europe, probably in autumn, in order to give consumers the opportunity to take a picture of themselves and see on the spot how cattle or other animals are raised on Austrian farms. Mrs. Anna Huber has also agreed here that there is a very high level of food quality in Austria, but we already – if we are prepared to accept a higher level than other European countries here in Austria – that 350 calves are imported from Holland every week for Vienna's hospitals, and this information has been given to me! In Austria, animal fats are prohibited in the case of milk exchangers; vegetable fats may only be mixed. In the Netherlands, on the other hand, animal fats are still allowed to be added. In Holland, the calves' mast is a specialized production facility, in which milk exchangers are used exclusively. That facilities in Vienna can then – because we in Austria, just because of the whole milk mast, calves cannot be offered at this price – import calves from Holland, which is already a double-dwelling! I have to say that quite openly here! To prohibit the Austrian farmers from importing what the Dutch can, but then the calves from Holland, because they are cheaper, that must also stop in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, around 45 000 BSE tests have been carried out in our slaughterhouses – and none of these tests have been positive, and no disease-infected animals have been detected in any single test. However, two years ago, the Austrian agriculture was referred to by the German Chancellor Schröder as "Schrebergarten-Agriculture", which would have "no future", because it would have to "industrialize" agriculture, as Schröder said, because it could produce food cheaper. – However, Austria’s agriculture is now a model for most European countries. Therefore, in order to become a model for other European states, we are also committed to the fact that we are controlled by one hand, so to speak, from the ground to the loading table, and thus created additional confidence. At present fertilisers, plant protection products, feed, seeds or, for example, plant products are controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture; the veterinary sector, the food sector are controlled by the Social Ministry – and a number of control tasks also have the federal states. This must be a command of the hour to sum up and bundle. I would like to make the following request to the Federal Government, Mr President-in-Office of the State Dr. Finz, that the permanent financing of BSE costs, the BSE tests, the exploitation of the risk material be carried out as soon as possible, because the current provisional solution is starting again in one month. ==References== We would like to know a permanent solution in this regard, by law, before this proposal expires again. Finally, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a time-limit, which the trade union association has also called for – and we are now meeting this demand. This will extend the "residue" foundation to include, in particular, the workers in the meat industry whose jobs are at risk, in order to enable them to participate in this action. That is why I also ask you to give your approval to the opposition to this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e7166	The amendment tabled just now by Dr. Feurstein, Mag. Trattner, Wimmer and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are negotiating. Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Gäßner to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e7194	Mr President. I refer to the speech by Mr Feurstein, who, in his speech on my interlocutory call, claimed that the SPÖ had not submitted any request for the continuation of the "relive" foundation. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Not this one!]] I'm actually correcting: ==References== In February 2001, this request – this request – was made that the "Aufleb" Foundation be continued to operate. [[Abg. Böhacker: An application!]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I said to the Budget Committee! Read the protocol!]] However, he was voted down by the government parties and therefore he could not be treated in the Budget Committee anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e7262	The next speaker was Mr Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e7283	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the point where Mrs Moser has ended, and to Article 12 of the Budgetary Control Act, I would like to make a few comments. I remember very well that before the National Council elections, the Freemans had put: Rent will be lowered! Rents have to be cheaper! – However, the government has, quite contrary to its policy, increased rents, as the burden it has imposed on people has also increased very much, at least more strongly than in recent years. The fixing of rental prices, of course, also depends very much on the rate of inflation, and this clearly also makes rents more expensive. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: The oil has become cheaper!]] This was obviously also a reason for the fact that, especially in the Vienna election campaign, suddenly no more word was to be heard by the Freedom Party in the direction of "mitting down", although one is already accustomed to the fact that whatever they place, whatever comes or – even worse – is consciously not observed. In addition, the following comments were made: House builders will also be a little surprised because interest on construction savings loans has also increased by 2 to 2.5 percent. The monthly refund rates for small house builders and apartment buyers thus become more sensitive. Your intention is clear: You want to talk about social housing, which is a thorn in your eyes, from the government – the social housing that we have successfully built that is world-wide, quite simply not, you want it to be destroyed. And this Article 12 is intended to contribute a little bit to this again. The first step has already been taken, Mr State Secretary, just a few months ago, with the amendment of the housing law on non-profit-making in the framework of the 2001 budget accompanying legislation. At the time, they decided that the approximately 106 000 dwellings owned exclusively by local authorities could be lost and sold. At the time, the tenants – and with this I am linked to what my previous speaker said – have been promised that they will be able to buy their apartments cheaply, that this will be a great thing. – Haven’t said However, to the tenants that they must first decide within a short period of time, second, that houses with different structures, i.e. property and rental apartments, are hardly manageable, and you have not also mentioned the prices for these apartments. If the tenant cannot afford the apartment or does not decide to buy it in good time, the private real estate dealers – one of them, a very well-known man, who has already been mentioned as chairman of the BUWOG – or other investors come to the train, which was always the objective of these legislative changes. Because you've been talking about 30 billion schilling from the beginning, you need 30 billion, but you can't bring it in with the sale to the tenants, that's ridiculous! I note that this Article 12 of the WGG is being amended again today. And now you have to ask yourself: Why is this changed today? – Because the last time, of course, mistakes happened again! Something's been done wrong again. It has not even been known to you who is the owner of these companies, because at the time when this provision was decided, a change of ownership had already been made. We now want to repair this retroactively, but in a pathetic way, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. You have noticed that some of the cooperatives that the real estate industry had already taken care of cannot be sold at the railways because a housing company has recognized its intention, namely to corrupt the non-profit housing, and has sold a share of a 100 percent otherwise owned company in the interest of the tenants to a cooperative that belongs to the railways, and thus has withdrawn your access. And that must not be! By a obviously unconstitutional and deeply questionable change of law and with dubious reasons, you are now trying to force this society back under the law. And you're not afraid of that either, retroactively, with the date of the year 23. ==References====External links== This day was therefore chosen because the transfer of shares thus lies after the deadline and the company, although it could not have been sold under existing law, can now be forced under the law. This is generally referred to as an occasion legislation. I refer to it as the abuse of Parliament that the government is telling us today. However, they do not only deal with the sale of shares, the Supervisory Board of the housing company has also agreed to the sale by three to zero votes because the two or three Supervisory Boards of the Ministry of Finance were not present at this Supervisory Board meeting. On the other hand, another non-supervisory official went there and claimed to have a voting right there – which is absurd because one knows that one can at best pass a voting right on to another Supervisory Board for the duration of a Supervisory Board meeting, but not anyone can simply come and say: I am here now Supervisory Board and have a voting right. I have also heard that the official who was not a member of the Supervisory Board has taken further steps. For example, he then convened an extraordinary General Meeting or Annual General Meeting in which he himself made himself a Supervisory Board so that he could do what he could not have done before. It's absurd what happened here! I have to ask you the question, Mr State Secretary: Did you know about it? Did the Minister of Finance know? Or was that even caused by you and the Minister of Finance? And if this has actually happened, then these are methods that are not supposed to happen in a rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] But that's still not all! It's still going on there funny! That's still not all. – In order to prevent the sale of shares, the Company Agreement was also subsequently amended, so that the Company Treaty now states that the Annual General Meeting will have to be approved in the future – not only of the Supervisory Board, but also of the Annual General Meeting! – if a divestment is to be carried out. Then to rape the Supervisory Board, to rape the Annual General Meeting, to rape the Social Treaty, and to believe that we are still here today, to pass a retroactive law, which puts 20,000 families in uncertainty, I really think is a scandal, Mr State Secretary! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The whole serves only to damage the tenants and satisfy real estate trustees. If you really decide on this law today, we will inform the tenants, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Görg has been drawn to the Vienna election campaign with great sayings such as: Municipal flats are to be sold! Co-operatives are to be sold! That's the modern way. That's the right way. – That was one of the core topics of the ÖVP in Vienna! The answer, ladies and gentlemen, has been given to you to a good extent by the Viennans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e7351	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Pecker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e7407	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the 2002 budget: For the first time, a budget without new debt – Mr Deputies! [[Abg. Grabner:... Westenthaler... 11 percent!]] I can imagine you'll get another answer to that. [[Abg. Grabner: Who?]] – May I speak now? I only have my 6 minutes. [[Abg. Grabner: Then talk!]] For the first time no re-indebtedness, no new debt, therefore no higher interest rates, no higher taxes for the people of the future! [[Abg. Eder: You deserve... and the people pay!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: ( towards SPÖ) No class struggle!]] Again prospects for the boys who say today, they do not know what their pensions will be in the future, who will pay their health care in the future. For the first time really is saved; and this is not just a lip confession. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Edler: How much do you personally earn from this government?]] [[Abg. Grabner: Not a little!]] – I’d like to show you my balance sheets if you’re really interested. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: He can't read it!]] [[Calls and calls between Grabner and Dr Puttinger.]] So, no lip confessions in saving, lip confessions, how to hear them often. Every time the media, when television is nearby, the gentlemen and ladies say of the opposition: Of course, it has to be saved, it is very important that it be saved. But if you look at the press conferences of Mr. Finanzminister a. D., like his savings proposals for budget recovery, this is already an exciting thing. The Minister of Finance a. D. demands a tax reduction of the population, because economic growth in 2000 was very good, a permanent tax reduction, which – please per year! – 15 billion shilling, i.e. 15 billion more deficit, by 15 billion higher debts. That's not how I imagine saving! In addition, he wants to make a further 15 billion more debt by reversing all the measures. The Minister for Finance also wants to save on agriculture. I believe that this is not a very good proposal at the time of the meat crisis, in which agriculture is required more controls and more stringent conditions. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: And from Holland import the calves!]] Most of the rural population is currently afraid of its existence and cannot by any means imagine what their merits are in other areas. But also savings à la Grün, according to your expert Rossmann, means a reintroduction of the asset tax, an increase in the gift tax and an increase in the capital income tax. I mean, if you want to introduce this widely, you'll meet the middle and smaller incomes as well. This reminds a lot of the Communist Party's proposals when you read them this way. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edler: Last-class!]] Now to Article 11 of the Act on Budgetary Support. The unemployment insurance system, ladies and gentlemen, is pleased to report a surplus because we have a very, very good employment situation in Austria. There has been the lowest unemployment rate for a long time. [[Abg. Edler: And who did that?]] – I think you admit that this was also a bit of a coalition partner, and we have been leading this government for a few years now. [[Call the SPÖ:Since when?]] [[Abg. Edellinger: Really? ...!]] This surplus from unemployment insurance will also be used in 2002 for the benefit of the budget. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a solid economic contribution to budgetary reorganisation, because the economy which pays this unemployment insurance from employers' and employees' contributions is absolutely in line with the government's budget savings plans and budget recovery plans. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Verbatim]] [[Abg. I don't know. It's both!]] One could de facto reduce unemployment insurance by one third and thus reduce additional wage costs – not so that companies can get better, but so that they can make themselves competitive and competitive in a European comparison as well as bring their products to the man. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. What about the additional wage costs in Austria?]] – We have the highest additional wage costs in... [[Abg. Verbatim: In international comparison? Then go with us to the International Monetary Fund!]] By European comparison! You know that our most important exporting countries are Germany and Italy. [[Abg. Verbatim: unit labour costs!]] One word to the "relive" foundation: The extension of the "Aufleb" Foundation is an important measure to help those employees who have suffered a damage from the meat crisis, as regrettably the 300 employees of the company Weiser, who went into bankruptcy. This company was a very service-oriented company, a well-run family business that has become a victim of this meat crisis. One last word on the Food Safety Agency. There is certainly a need for a big throw, that is a big project. We are glad that this is now a detailed review. I would really ask you, including all the opposition representatives, to make a positive contribution here and to present your proposals for improvement. Our wish is that the research institutes should avoid double-tracking by means of better cooperation, better focus, and that this will save costs – but not only that costs are saved, but also that the quality of the research institutes will be improved, because it is really not possible to see why all research institutes make all investigations in the same way with the same technical equipment that is becoming increasingly complex. Finally, a comment on private contracts. The industry has always awarded private contracts to the research institutes, but the research institutes have remained independent in their assessment of investigations, even to this day. I see no reason at all why something should change, because private contracts, partly in billions, have always been awarded to the research institutes. I hope that this food agency will make a great deal of sense in order to really take a step towards safer food in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e7698	The next speaker was Mr Dietachmayr. The clock is set to 5 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e7719	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I congratulate my previous speaker, Mrs Mag. Pecher, for she is the first ÖVP member to remember from the speaker's desk that the ÖVP was also involved in an earlier government. So far, this has always been presented as if the SPÖ had a single government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's not true!]] A sentence to Mr Feurstein, who meant that the SPÖ Group would have voted against the dynamization of emergency aid in the Committee on Budgets. – Deputies! Unfortunately, it was not possible to have a separate vote on Article XI in the Committee on Budgets, otherwise, of course, we would have voted in favour. That is why we will now vote in plenary in a separate vote in favour of this article. After all, it was a long-standing call for us to dynamic the emergency aid. But now on another subject, which is particularly important to me, namely labour market policy. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: It's top!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, the means of labour market policy are a particular goal of this government’s desire. They have removed the previous federal grant, which has been paid in the past, and are now bringing another billion schilling out of this pot. This deliberately leads to a deficit! In return, you have reduced the benefits for the unemployed and the necessary funds for the qualification offensive – especially in the event of a shortage of skilled workers a very serious shortage! – not provided. The unemployed are therefore penalised twice – on the one hand, by the drastically reduced insurance benefits and on the other hand by a lack of professional opportunities as a result of lack of qualifications. The AMS integrates all labour market resources, both for security of life and for the promotion of the labour market, and in recent years they have been able to focus on the fastest possible means of mediation. The result is an extremely low long-term unemployment rate in Austria in the EU comparison. The AMS has done excellent work. And although the other EU countries have also benefited from the good world economy, these countries are known to have a much higher unemployment rate than we do in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] I therefore believe that this is also a merit of the labour market service, which has done a good job in recent years! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what are you doing? – Unemployment insurance is deducted by many billion schilling. As you can hear, the AMS will be distributed from 2002 onwards. In my opinion, this procedure is extremely insidious. First, take the money off, and then the AMS will be distributed and left to its fate, at a time when the world economy is threatening to weaken! Therefore, the importance of labour market services will grow even more in the near future. In my opinion, however, this federal government is also concerned with power, because the exclusion it provides for this government – 100 percent federal ownership, but no federal liability! – means no more, but less independence compared to now. In a Ges.m.b.H., the Minister is known to have the 100 percent right of access. The social partners are thus pushed back and more or less down to the fig leaf. Disregard for the social partners is also in line with the current strategy of this government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So it is planned to starve the labour market service financially and become the government’s playing ball. The surplus will be eliminated, the federal liability will be eliminated, the employers' contributions will be reduced. If the AMS slides into the deficit, the Federal Government will save again at the expense of the unemployed in the event of re-training opportunities. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: How does the new structure look like? Explain that!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Puttinger, tell him!]] [[Abg. Grabner: He has no idea!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There would be a whole series of further questions, such as: [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You tell fairy tales! That's crazy!]] Why have the benefits for unemployed been decided at all and are still maintained, although unemployment insurance achieves surpluses? They therefore punish the unemployed for their unemployment, although unemployment benefit is not a gift from the federal government or the Finance Minister, but an insurance benefit! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will have an opportunity to talk about this point in this House. The qualifications of job-seekers have been put in the foreground in the past. In any event, we believe that this federal government also has the task of pursuing a policy of lifelong learning and putting it into figures. However, you have in all cases forgotten this with this forthcoming budget and with this budget accompanying law.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e7861	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e7882	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Today, the emotions have risen relatively high on the topic of national teacher service law. I am glad that today I am the last speaker of the ÖVP to summarize this briefly. However, I would like to do this very professionally and very objectively, just as Mrs Minister has suggested, because this issue is far too important to me in order to make a political change. I want to look at the subject from the objective perspective. The fact is that the tasks and expectations of teachers or schools are becoming more and more extensive and that this has not yet been reflected in the working time calculation. That is why I think it is important and right that the new model, developed together with Minister Gehrer and the trade union, has a forward-looking working time model, which brings only benefits to all parties involved. [[Abg. Swimmling: But less money!]] This model has been addressed with extreme professionalism, and it has the advantage that many disadvantages of the previous system have been eliminated. Especially during the working hours of teachers, it was repeatedly questioned whether the teacher was only a half day's job. It is precisely this opinion that has always contributed to the motivation of our teachers in the public. This is understandable, too, if you put yourself in the position of teachers. That is why I am glad that the working time study commissioned by Mrs Gehrer together with the trade union and the former State Secretary Ruttenstorfer has just rejected this view. These results confirm very well that the time spent on activities outside actual education is much higher than assumed. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This means, for me, that the current duty-hour model is very much outdated, and it is also to be accepted and taken seriously, and that this model has to be adapted to the current tasks of teachers. For this reason, I also think it makes sense for the work to be divided or differentiated into the following three areas of activity: Point 1: actual teaching time, says: direct contact with the students, point 2: Pre- and post-preparation or corrective action, point 3: Organisation, innovation and coordination, a point I think is very central. The division into these three areas of activity, in particular, makes it very clear that school is more than just teaching today. I believe that the very great advantage of this new model lies in the great flexibility. Just the three areas of activity can be designed by the fixed annual hour model for teachers exactly the way it fits for the school and that it also meets the individual requirements of the teachers. This model simply means to me a turning away from centralism to more self-responsibility, to more design possibilities, to a larger free space. Subsidiarity in particular is very important in this new right of service. Ladies and gentlemen! Remarkable is the fact that, at the time when the assessment draft was in place, the SPÖ's Education SpÖ spokesperson, Mr Antoni, stressed in an APA issue that this model was already more than overdue. That is why I also understand some groups, some of them within the SPÖ, who are strongly criticised, where this model has been negotiated and jointly developed. Very briefly to repeat, especially for those reigns of the opposition, which repeatedly claim that teachers have lost their salary due to this new model or reduced allowances – both are wrong –: [[Abg. All right!]] [[Abg. That's not true at all!]] It is simply the right thing, ladies and gentlemen, that we had to delete those budget items that had previously been intended for rewards. This was deleted as part of the budget consolidation. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this new right of service is a quantum leap in the truest sense of the word. That's why my appeal to you: Support She is this model, because it contributes to greater flexibility, more motivation among teachers and higher quality of training – without any extra burden on the budget! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e7947	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Prammer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e7968	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! It has not been a long time since most of the Federal Government announced: Now we're implementing gender mainstreaming. Minister Chief, after having set up working groups to even rise to say that gender mainstreaming had now been implemented. If I hear these statements, I only have two thoughts: Either he has not understood at all what gender mainstreaming is called, or there is no need to implement gender mainstreaming at all, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Böhacker: You will explain!]] Other interpretations do not allow these statements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If gender mainstreaming were to be taken seriously, then the budget 2002 and the corresponding budget accompanying law would have to be full of gender mainstreaming. But you can study the budget accompanying law with the magnifying glass, you can study the 2002 budget with the magnifying glass, you will find no approach in it in terms of gender mainstreaming, ladies and gentlemen. And, of course, that's obvious! This is striking if you do not allow women's policies to take place again and again – it has already been pointed out – and if you use a maximum of bad family policy where women's policies once took place, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing I also have to blame you: You have had a year now – now I am not going into this subject at all at all – to include a announced project in a budget accompanying law. Ladies and gentlemen! The babies are already in the world whose parents don't know what after 31. It will be December this year. As part of the 2002 budget and in the framework of the budget accompanying law, they did not make it possible for parents to understand the clarity they urgently need. I am not yet talking about the quality of what you should have done, ladies and gentlemen. The second, to me, of course, is also what I see in the context of labour market policy. This cannot be separated from the issue of child money either. They reduce and exploit the resources of labour market policy. They themselves know exactly how necessary it is for women to be sent to Karenz for a long time, that offensive measures must be put in place to make them workable again. In the context of women's day, training offensives are announced quickly. – Of course there is nothing to see from training offensives. You have not even made it possible in your Council of Ministers to give women some prospects beyond holiday representations and part-time jobs during karenz, ladies and gentlemen! But you are obviously able, ladies and gentlemen, to cut shorts and downs on labour market policy and labour market promotion. Finally, let me say one more on child care and child care and much more: I am also very glad that the Vienna elections have not only achieved a good result for red and green, but that most of the women have given you and your policies a clear rejection.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8022	The next speaker was Mr Dr Niederwieser. Your speaking time is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8051	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Let me start with my colleague Mikl-Leiter. She meant it's good to sum up what's going on with the teachers and the schools. The fact is that what you sell as a quality improvement is 1.2 billion schilling savings in education – 1.2 billion schilling, which you spend less on education. You want to sell that as progress! - We certainly don't take that from you. The fact is that what you have presented to the teachers, namely to vote on two different models, also has a history. The history was that this Parliament, with the majority of FPÖ and ÖVP, has decided to have drastic deterioration for teachers. Then negotiations have been started to save what is to be saved and to develop a slightly better model. Then the teachers were allowed to decide, colleague Mikl-Leiter: Take this very bad, or take it a little better, take 3,000 jobs less, or take 2,000 less posts. In this alternative, teachers have largely opted for the 2,000 and the less bad, but that is a bad alternative you have presented to them. Therefore, we cannot take note of this result in this form either. [[Abg. Amon: Your union already!]] If you are talking about improvements – Mr Amon, you have done so too – then I can inform you of a completely new letter from the Public Service Trade Union, Section for Vocational School Teachers of Tyrol. Under the proposed new scheme, a supply hour will be charged with net 75 S in the future. Teachers say: At net 75 s, I'm not doing any more technical lessons I need to prepare for. I understand it, because, Mr Amon, do you really want to say that 75 S represents the value of what a teacher has to do in school in an hour? - That's fact. [[Abg. Böhacker: A tank guard should be able to work in storm and wind!]] That's fact, and these are the serious deterioration we're talking about, and that's not the big throw you always want to talk to us about. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: A farmer gets only 30 s!]] It is not a big throw; it could not be it, because as a starting point for this reform there were the constraints on savings already agreed in the coalition paper. The Minister has said that the directors have a great job, they are the managers of the school, they have to decide, they have priorities to make, they have to implement this new model. – But you also need to start changing the conditions around it. This starts with this so-called regionalization in the field of education. We have proposed the model to think for ourselves in educational regions and not just every school. What happens in practice? – In practice, for example, a primary school sets a linguistic focus, thus becoming a point of attraction for the environment. The result is that the children from the neighbouring communities want to go to this primary school, because as a European primary school there, with a linguistic focus, just as the last one happened in Hall in Tyrol, they are also quite huge, but they are not allowed to do so. You can't go to this school. They have to go to their school, which they feel is worse. We must offer solutions, ladies and gentlemen. There must be a new model of this division. In this respect, you are invited to show your speed – not just what the savings are. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A second point concerns unemployment insurance. Mr Pecher presented this as if this was the contribution of the economy to be made. Mr. Pecher! It is not to accept how you argue! 250 million schillings are relocated by unemployment insurance for study promotion. In other words, what you want to spend more on student funding next year, take away unemployment insurance. One is services which serve to promote studies, and the other is services which at least half the workers provide and which are intended to benefit workers who become unemployed almost entirely, and not those students who benefit from these grants. This measure to finance student funding from unemployment insurance is unfair, is unsocial and also unconstitutional. Mr. Feurstein! You know that's unconstitutional. This will be the next thing you will suffer before the Constitutional Court. That's what we're telling you now. – For all these reasons, we cannot give our consent to these laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8121	The next speaker was Mrs Hagenhofer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8143	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! During the Committee debates on the budget accompanying laws, an §-27 request to the Rules of Procedure was submitted by the Government parties in connection with the amendment of the Reconciliation Fund Act. This amendment includes the explicit exemption from liability of the institutions. In view of our suggestion that the institutions should be released from liability even in the compensation fund law and the National Fund for Victims of National Socialism in case-by-case examination and appeal proceedings, the State Secretary in the Committee has granted an examination. The second committee meeting asked us once again why this was not done, as the government parties had promised, to think about it and also to provide for the explicit exemption of liability of the institutions for these two laws. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties: If it is said in committee that it has simply been overlooked, and if the financial procuratorship so confirms that it would be right, why don't you make this change, and why didn't you make this change to this day? – It is not to be understood why special persons are explicitly released from liability and other persons who do nothing else, who also do organ work. Clearly – and I believe that it is not to spare the FPÖ in this context – your consent to the compensation fund law and the National Fund for Victims of National Socialism was only a lip commitment, otherwise you could agree to an exemption from liability, just as we require it in our amendment. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government! In particular, I would like to speak to you from the FPÖ. Take action from your lip confessions, and agree to this request! I don't understand how ÖVP has managed to convince its government partner.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8222	The amendment tabled by Mr Hagenhofer, which has just been tabled by Mrs Kostelka, comrades, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8246	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Not too long ago, the Reconciliation Fund Act was adopted in the National Council's plenary session with the votes of all political groups. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] The Greens, but also all the other political groups, explained at the time how this joint procedure, which was achieved in particular on the truly remarkable and grateful performance of the former President of the Austrian National Bank, Dr. Schaumayer, has been established, and why this regulation has received our agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! But even at that time the direction "speed kills" specified by the government was unmistakable in law. A few months later, it turned out, even that which everyone has gladly agreed to is faulty or is not perfect and not complete. In this context, the coalition parties in the Financial Committee submitted a business-regulatory application last week. The Green Group has approached Ambassador Steiner and Ambassador Votava. After explaining to us, above all, Mr. Steiner, why this amendment to the Reconciliation Fund Act is important from his point of view, this has also been agreed with us. In order not to endanger the deliberate delay in disbursement of payments to former forced workers under the Reconciliation Fund Act, Professor Van der Bellen and colleague Kogler in the Committee have now agreed to this amendment to the Reconciliation Fund Act, ladies and gentlemen. We also stick to the position – this measure may still be so controversial as to whether it is necessary at all. We stay there – according to the motto, it is better, it can happen payouts than they may be delayed by this point. We stick to our attitude. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, we also support the concern that the Socialist Group has now raised in the form of an amendment which we have only heard of today and which we can only discuss now, because it also seems useful to us, especially with regard to the tasks that the compensation fund will have and which are at least as complex as the tasks of the reconciliation fund and the institutions operating there. But I also believe that it is still worth discussing whether it is really necessary. Nevertheless, in the sense of equal treatment between the two funds, we support your proposal, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! But this federal government just can't leave it. The Federal Government and the government factions cannot be fooled by seeking rapid disbursements to former forced workers today at second reading to make an amendment to the Federal Finance Act, which includes the claim: 100 million schilling for night vision technology to monitor the EU's external border, says Schengen border. Ladies and gentlemen! Only the thoughtful Connex – forced workers from the East and night vision devices and similar fighting tools at the borders to protect the Schengen border – is it right that I am outraged – in view of the fact that the Committee amends the Reconciliation Fund Act by means of an amendment and now has the Chuzpe, now 100 million schillings still need to be carried out, so that perhaps someone who admits from Romania – does not want to comply with law, namely illegally, via the border, with military equipment. We strongly reject that! This is to show you that this federal government is not afraid of anything – not to mention it, especially the Federal Chancellor. He is not afraid of that either, because he has been silent to this day on the subject of Jörg Haider, anti-Semitism and his ongoing anti-Semitism, ladies and gentlemen. The whole discussion gets an untasteful touch, ladies and gentlemen, who really beat the bottom of the unhappiness that has ever happened here. – That is why, ladies and gentlemen, of course, a no on this action by the Federal Government. [[Unrest in the hall.]] You see how great the hustle and bustle is, ladies and gentlemen! They see how violent the words fly back and forth, because that is just what is being done here when budget approaches are changed at the last second and the Federal Finance Act is amended in 2001. No one knows anything, Mr. Finanz State Secretary is silent in this matter now, because otherwise he would have to have given us at least – I am the last speaker to be reported – explanations on this procedure why it was elected. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8313	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8334	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The liberals and the ÖVP will agree with the request of Dr. Kostelka and Marianne Hagenhofer. It also includes the fact that the institutions of the National Fund of the Republic of Austria and the Funds are not liable for replacement claims based on the performance of the tasks. I would just like to explain the following: We, the government groups, have in itself made a similar request for the compensation of forced workers because there are real problems there. All of these have contributed, and I think this is a cross-border consensus that is necessary. We believe that liability exclusions should also be made in other funds, e.g. in the case of cultural goods refund. We wanted to discuss all of this with everyone within the framework of an initiative proposal. But since a piece is now taken out, we agree with this piece and hope that, if we make similar exclusions from liability for the other funds, the applicants will also agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8372	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8394	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We did not agree to the law in the committee addressed by Mr Khol, because you rejected our request on liability provisions, which we once again tabled here. I welcome your ability to learn. In this context, the Sunday may have contributed to this. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] As a political group, we will therefore give our assent to the whole of the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8435	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8457	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially Social Democracy! We are not surprised at the fact that you are showing superiority and pride today. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Enjoy this atmosphere! It won't last very long. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The application which has been submitted is factually correct because it is not in fact clear why there should be an exemption of liability for the institutions of the reconciliation fund, but not for those of the compensation fund and the National Fund for victims of National Socialism. Ladies and gentlemen, who work in these committees, most of them do their duty free of charge for ideal reasons. It is not to be seen why they should be exposed to an increased risk in the future by collective complaints. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to proceed with an exemption from liability. But I have to say one thing: I regret that the Greens are constantly using all the issues relating to compensation legislation as the cause of immense polemics to the Freedom Party. I can point out, in particular, to the address of SPÖ, that it was not the SPÖ that carried a comprehensive and ultimately, I believe, very well thought out and well-founded compensation legislation regarding gaps, which actually existed in the compensation legislation, during the past legislative periods – in the end, one has only begun with individual pieces such as the Art Return Act – but that it was reserved for the Blue-Black Coalition to produce this immensely difficult complex in a truly record period of only 11 to 12 months, the bilateral and multilateral negotiations with the partner organizations, with other states, in particular the United States of America, to come to a conclusion and also to implement the law in the National Council – at least with the votes of all. Ladies and gentlemen! We are all Members of this House, not just the representatives of the government parties. They don't need to make themselves overly complacent and accuse us of having overlooked something. You didn't notice! So please don't think differently than you actually deserve it! Ladies and gentlemen! There's consensus here. We will vote in favour of your reasonable proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8517	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft budget accompanying law 2002 in 539 of the Supplements. Hiezu, Deputies have Dr. Feurstein, Mag. Trattner, Wimmer and comrades submitted an amendment. Mr Silhavy and Mr Comrades have also asked for a separate vote. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts of the proposed amendment and on the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Feurstein, Mag. Trattner, Wimmer and Comrades have tabled an amendment to Article 11(1) and I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it. – I see the unanimity. The amendment was therefore adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 11(6), as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I am seeking a sign of approval. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to it for a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 539 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. (E 72.) Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the compensation fund law, the Federal Finance Act 2001 and the Reconciliation Fund Act into 541 of the supplements. Mr Feurstein, Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades have also tabled an additional request. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the proposed amendment or supplementary request and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Kostelka and comrades have submitted an additional request for the insertion of Article 1 of § 3a. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – I see the unanimity. The additional request is therefore accepted. Mr Feurstein, Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 2. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who are voting in favour of a positive sign. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give them their approval to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (486 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Establishment of a Federal Procurement Society with Limited Liability (BB-GmbH Act) (546 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law with which the Federal Finance Act 2001, BGBl. I No. 1/2001, amended (547 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8662	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. First of all, Mr Günter Kiermaier has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8690	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In order to say it in advance: There are a number of reasons why we cannot accept this government proposal. The main purpose of this law is to combine procurements of as many federal, national and other public services as possible, to create large and largest quantities of purchases and thereby achieve cheaper prices. We also know very well what function quantity and season discounts have and that by large quantities of purchases a cheaper price level can be achieved. Only you can't make the situation that easy. There are, of course, side effects, ladies and gentlemen, who question or counter-carry these thoughts of the philosophy of quantity. A major problem arises from the fact that the concept does not take any account of the small and medium-sized enterprises of our country, that, on the basis of the large quantities of purchases in most areas, there is an obligation to tender across the EU. [[Abg. Böhacker: Mr Kiermaier! Wrong speech!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Wrong speech, Kiermaier!]] The fact that this is a huge deterioration of our chances is clear to everyone. I would just like to point this out by an example, from the book and paper trade. For example, if the school books and the entire school needs are centrally obtained, they are enormous quantities. If one follows the above-mentioned philosophy, the school book actually approves it. Only: Paper trading on the free land is not one of the thriving industries, and not least because of the widely known chains – names are not to be called here – paper trading is not very easy. So many bookstores have closed their gates forever. The School Book Action has resulted in an increase in sales in the summer and autumn months in most of the upholstery they need around the 13th and 14ths. Payables can be paid out in their farms. What happens if in a small place the paper business or the bookstore closes? Where do the schoolchildren or the parents buy all the little things they need throughout the year that do not bring large sales, but are necessary? The fact that these examples do not relate only to book and paper trade is clear. And with regard to the distribution of the goods centrally purchased in the future: This is not just free and not unproblematic either. In some areas of the public service, it was precisely for these reasons that one escaped, such as the Bundesbahn, where there was a time when the lighting bodies were centrally purchased and a member of Waidhofen at the Ybbs drove to Amstetten to pick up a fluorescent tube, or the Gendarmerie had to pick up the ballpoint pens and flashlight batteries at the BGK. When the materials were needed, the ballpoint pens were dried in and the flashlight batteries were broken. – That is not necessarily the final conclusion of wisdom. These curious stories could continue. [[Abg. Böhacker: They're really curious!]] In the meantime, public services have already been used to increase the pouvoir of local authorities, so that this problem is no longer given. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What bothers my friends and me, on the other hand, is the constellation of this society linked to the Minister of Finance. Four members of this Supervisory Board, in turn determined by Minister Grasser – of course completely impartial, as we are used to by this government. These four members form the so-called General Assembly with the representative of the Ministry. That's the tip! Four and the general assembly formed by the Minister "Verordene"! However, there is also a advisory board, which, however, only has a recommendative character and is a rather dull instrument. Another problem is the directories of the supplier addresses that are created. This will create a preference that we do not think is proper. It will be interesting to observe, ladies and gentlemen, how far this process will be in line with EU law. Unfortunately, my speaking time is over, but the problems you are creating with this law will certainly not be out, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Böhacker: Your speaking time is not over! Your speech is over!]] They state that they are the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises. However, if you decide on this law, you confirm once again that you are no longer in office at the latest since the current government took office. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8775	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8797	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, when we debate this federal law on the establishment of a federal procurement company with limited liability and then decide by a majority, we ultimately take into account many years of suggestions from the Court of Auditors. In fact, it has repeatedly pointed out that it would be useful in itself to purchase the demand power of the federal government, of federal departments, and to bundle and to purchase at a uniform and central level. This is the deeper meaning of this draft law: that, in the context of fiscal consolidation, one also exploits those savings potential that can result from pooling demand potential. This is the very core of this law. Of course, we also know – and we were trying to say that from home: There are a number of products – electricity, gas, heat, Telekom, postal services – where this is very useful and well done. However, there are also other goods that need to be very careful whether central procurement, central purchasing is actually useful in terms of regional supply structures by small and medium-sized enterprises, with regard to domestic value added, with regard to domestic labour. Therefore, after a long discussion in the opposition financial committee, on the basis of their criticism, which many members of the government parties have also shared, we have offered that we are ready – which is what is in the explanatory remarks of the government template, namely the consideration of regional supply structures, the consideration of small and medium-sized enterprises, the consideration of domestic value-added and jobs, the opposition of the grounds for renunciation, the not to agree – to make these explanatory remarks in legislative form. My colleague, Mr Böhacker, will then put forward a corresponding amendment to the Government's proposal, and therefore, Mr Kiermaier, would actually be free to vote in favour of the opposition. In this amendment, we call for the following: that the Minister of Finance should clarify by means of a regulation what groups of goods and services of this central purchase should apply to and for which not, and that he should consider this – that is, must-form! – on regional supply structures through small and medium-sized enterprises, jobs and value added. That is to say, we have actually taken full account of the arguments of the opposition. It cannot be said that the government parties are going everywhere. It was reasonable arguments that many of us shared. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] That is why Mr Böhacker will bring in this amendment afterwards, and we expect the opposition parties' consent to a law that is important and which exploits savings potential, Mr Edlinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8846	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Deputies! I would like to draw attention to the fact that I will interrupt at 3 p.m. That means that the speaking time before 15 o'clock is just a little more than 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8870	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In particular, this is an in-depth response to the arguments of the SPÖ, which is certainly correct. However, there are much more central objections to the present ideas and changes in the field of procurement, although not all objections in turn concern just this law. I'm sending this in advance to fight against possible counter-arguments. What has really been corrected? – it has been corrected that small and medium-sized enterprises should be taken into account in regional procurement. I am also in doubt about whether this is, at all events, compatible if we refer once again to the situation of the region's workplace. This is, in any case, an opposite goal to obtain as cheap a price as possible. Perhaps a regional provider, who of course also guarantees jobs, has particularly bad conditions and is more expensive. It can also be seen in other contexts that many conflicting goals are to be brought into one's hands. However, I do not fully understand that this can be done without a doubt. The idea of central procurement is that, through large purchases, we have called it so salopp in committee – a quantity discount "raises". That's not wrong! The question is: Which product groups are those that concern it? – As for our objections, Mr Glavischnig will say something about it. But if this is the basic idea, that is to say, to save something with the large number of procurements – which, by the way, in principle, I recognize; only the products have to be precisely declared – then it is opposite in this sense. And if it would have been more economically useful to write out regionally, because, as Mr. Stumpfully said in the Committee, not every "semi-management" would have been taken up by Austria, so far – at least after this government proposal – the procurement agency would have been concerned with it at all; that is another question again – it would not have been centralized. It might have been more expensive for the anchor to take the brösel to Vorarlberg than for regional consideration. [[Abg. Auer: Besides, the semis would not taste so good!]] That's a taste question. In case of doubt, I would also assume that these mass-produced semis are not so good. But the President will immediately "mend" me because it will interrupt at 3 p.m. I mean – in order to conclude this argument – that this amendment is not really a very good one. It should simply be calmed down by the SPÖ. The real question that arises is: For which product groups should this be the first thing? – I refer to the problem with the word "central energy purchase", but I admit that this may not be just a problem of this law, and not just of this law. Understanding So you don't seem to have our rejection as if we basically had something against the idea, just: This central concern is not secured.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8899	Deputies! It's 15 o'clock now. I ask either for the final sentence – or you will continue your speech afterwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8914	I say that is my last argument, and that concludes my speech. I wanted to say, This law does not solve all problems in certain central areas. Therefore our scepticism and rejection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[15:01]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8951	I am now interrupting the debate on Agenda items 4 and 5 on the implementation of a short debate. The short debate concerns the request of Mr Kiss and Mr Jung, the Committee on Internal Affairs for reporting on the Government template concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Import, Export and transit of War Materials and the Arms Act 1996 and adopting a Force Residence Act (428 of the Supplements), a period of time until 9. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with 10 minutes at the disposal of the first speaker. The opinions of members of the government shall be deemed to be intended for 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e8990	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I see at the outset that the Federal Government is interested in consensus in this matter, which we consider sensitive and important. We want to seek this consensus, among other things, in the Committee on the Interior, because we want to convince with the power of the arguments and not with arbitrary killing arguments anyone who feels different from us, as well as threatening the dissent. I would particularly like to refer to the SPÖ managing clubman, Mr Kostelka, and bring him back to the past as well. It is quite simple in a political assessment that you are honest, and I remind colleagues Kostelka of the year 1998. At that time the SPÖ was with the ÖVP in the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of the Interior, was not the Minister of Defense, but Klubobmann Kostelka and Klubobmann Khol applied for an initiative at the time. This proposal for an initiative had nothing but the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam and, of course, of course, changes in constitutional law. – All of this was decided by two-thirds majority. This is only a reminder so that we know on what basis we carry out a political assessment on this subject. As has been said, the Federal Government, ÖVP and FPÖ, are to a great extent interested in ensuring that this issue is consistently argued and dealt with in the Committee on the Interior. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, it is a classic European issue that we are dealing with today in connection with this deadline proposal, a classic European issue that affects the common foreign and security policy of Europe. Mr Kostelka! If the European Union is a Union of Values, the Community, I must say: For me, too, Community is always called solidarity, and Community means a code of conduct which is to be lived by all who, of course, leave them open, but who want contracts and the observance of Treaties. In this context, I would remind you that, for example, this EU Code of Conduct provides for humanitarian tasks, rescue operations, peacekeeping and peace-building measures. And in this regard, Mr Kostelka, I really do not understand your previous behaviour in this causa. I would also like to argue because I believe that the SPÖ, which is calling on solidarity in one of its ideological pillars, is well advised to live the European solidarity climate. You don't, Mr Kostelka. You are unolidaric, you – that is my feeling – formally water on this matter, want to push it far, far out into the next and next year, and you will feed this matter with the security doctor. I think this is unfair. I believe that this behavior is also incomprehensible, and I also believe that the two materials, both the Security Doctrine and all that we want to decide in terms of war material law and the Force Residence Act, are very different. Now it is necessary to regulate this war material law in a simple way with the Force Residence Act. We're in arrears. In 1998, we agreed on the corresponding constitutional provisions, Mr Kostelka, and I would remind you of your responsibility for these decisions and the implementation we now have. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So that the whole thing doesn't become too technical, I'm just quoting the memory for those who listen – in matter most of them are already migrated, but what are we really talking about when it comes to changing the war material law in detail, and on what basis should it be changed? – e.g. from the government template I have before me: A decision of the United Nations Security Council or a decision pursuant to Title V of the Treaty on European Union – i.e. the Treaty of Amsterdam – "or a decision within the framework of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) or 4. other peace operations in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Statute.' Mr Kostelka! On the basis of such measures, such decisions to adapt the War Materials Act also in Austria, what is opposed to approving both the import and transit of war materials in Austria? I know that you are mounting that regarding the Force Residence Act, it was originally not at all the talk of what is now in the government template. But also in this context I quote only to the memory and, as it were, to the recovery of memory for those who perhaps wanted to know quite exactly what it is about in this Force Residence Act, again from the government template: "... the Federal Minister of State for Defence is authorized in agreement with the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs to permit the residence of troops, in particular" – that is particularly important! "3. to implement a decision in the framework of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), 4. to participate in other peace operations within the framework of an international organisation in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Statutes, such as measures to avert a humanitarian disaster or to prevent serious and systematic violations of human rights, 5. to participate in exercises and training..." – I am saving you the long list listed here. And again the question to you, Mr Kostelka: What's against this? If – and I simply always argue with the joint decisions of 1998 and our constitutional obligations resulting from them – Europe is a community of values when Europe builds a common foreign and security architecture, then we must not be unolidarian! And I am very curious about how you will argue, Mr Kostelka, how the speakers of the SPÖ will argue overall, because I find that – and this is my feeling of the legal structure of what we have decided – you are highly unolidarian, unolidarian in your own country, but above all also unolidarian towards the partners in Europe, in the European Union. And I don't understand! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have presented the technical process in a very wise way: The Internal Committee may treat the War Materials Act and the Force Residence Act very quickly. That is part of the task that we then finally transfer to the Federal Minister for the Interior. And it should be used in a second step – Mr Murauer, as our spokesperson for the ÖVP – to deal with the security doctor of the National Defence Committee and within the framework of the National Defence Committee, a subcommittee dealing with this brilliant issue. Only: Just as you believe that you can catch up with one another, just like a "packel", in order not to have the Federal Government take the right decisions, it is not understandable to me. You also beat a technical, legal volte for me, and that is something I strongly reject for myself and for the ÖVP. We want to go the straight, comprehensible, right way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Summary: The Federal Government, members of the ÖVP and FPÖ want the Internal Committee to become active. The deadline, Mr President, until 9. May, as we believe, is a fair deadline. I can now assure you that we are trying to achieve consensus and do not want to do so. And I believe that the tone of my speech, Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka, is that what I have argued was not carried by sharpness, but that we are aware of our responsibility. Be very aware of your responsibility for the 1998 decisions too! Take this responsibility together with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9095	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9130	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! You are right, Mr Kiss: The tone of your speech was not carried by sharpness. But what you have held in your hand was the sharpest parliamentary instrument you have available, namely the abbreviation, the impossibility of discussion. They shall leave with the decision to: You now want to understand the common interest in security and foreign policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The deadline is that the death penalty argument you have been talking about is the quality of the death penalty. I also agree with Mr Kiss on all the decisions we have taken together on the decision concerning the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam and the committee report which bears my signature. But read exactly what it says! In connection with the Amsterdam Treaty, we have explicitly referred to Article 51 of the UN Charter, and this Article 51 of the UN Charter contains only the natural right of every nation to defend itself. We also believe, however, that peace-making measures, and this shows that the Yugoslavia war and Kosovo, involving the OSCE, are essential to the integration of the UN. Ladies and gentlemen! What we are pleading for is solidarity, but it is also the right to national self-determination in this context in the same way as Sweden and Finland and the Irish. In this context, we want to discuss Europe's security policy in a large and in a context that includes all 15 members. And we want to do this here in the Austrian National Council, within the framework of the Security Doctor. Mr Kiss! It is clear that one first builds the foundation of a house and then the roof. What you want to do is just the reverse: They want the roof first and then the foundation. The Security Doctrine contains the general rules for security policy in Austria, including our membership of the European Union. You do not want to wait for this discussion, but what you want to do is to change a war material law and to adopt a completely new army residence law. This, ladies and gentlemen, is once again the unanticipated can and husk. In principle, we have agreed with you a revision of this war material law. But what we have not agreed is that in the cold way you delete the neutrality law and the references to the neutrality law from each individual provision. Ladies and gentlemen! They leave common ground in this context because you obviously want to question the three elements of neutrality, of the Neutrality Act. These three elements are: no wars, no troops in Austrian territory and no alliances. The third element, no alliances, don't come by. But you obviously want Austria to participate in wars despite its neutral status. I can even prove this to you: It was the Austrian Foreign Minister who, in connection with Macedonia, proposed the use of troops without such a mandate and thus even triggered great horror in his own Federal Government. The Force Residence Act is intended to undermine this second element of the Neutrality Act. Ladies and gentlemen! For us, for me the law of neutrality is Austria's confession after the Second World War, that we no longer participate in war and that we also do not want foreign troops on our own territory. That doesn't mean...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9187	Your speaking time is over, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9203	That does not mean – and I am at the end of the sentence – that we do not exercise solidarity. On the contrary: Since the beginning of the 1960s, Austria cannot be accused of a violation of neutrality, a violation of this solidarity.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9236	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9257	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, I have of course listened attentively to what you do not do with me, and I have concluded that you think that only the SPÖ would be explicit against a war here. Mr Kostelka, that is not the point. I hope you didn't mean that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have also offered you that we in the Committee on the Interior have a corresponding discussion that we can also deal with the War Materials Act. You said you could move this to the Sankt-Nimmerleins tag. We must also... – No! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The security doctor is Sankt-Nimmerleins-Tag?]] I'm talking about the current deadline. You didn't listen to me. I mentioned earlier that I'm sorry you didn't listen to me. I can also tell you that the common interest in our country's security policy and thus also in defence policy is secure, because we have also become a subcommittee of the National Defence Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, on the current deadline. With this deadline, we want to achieve a result of the Amsterdam Treaty with this amendment. It is about reducing red tape and administrative burden and ensuring clear legal regulations and legal certainty in this matter. Of course, that we are also in conformity with EU and international law and that, of course, neutrality is over it and is not affected by this simple legal regime, I would just like to mention the security in part. If you know that in the case of simplest things dealt with in this law, the Minister of State Defense, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Federal Chancellor's Office, you can imagine how complicated, how comprehensive it is to be done here. Even when repairing any materials, modifications, maintenances et cetera, all ministries must be employed. And if this is to happen again, then the whole thing goes back, again a request and again an approval of all four ministries is necessary and so on – not only for military equipment, but also for customs, for executives and the like. New in this law – and this, of course, helps us in the resolution – is that we only need a registration procedure when it comes to repairing already approved procurement matters. Through this new law, this novelle will also create a corresponding regime for the destruction of no longer used military equipment. Ladies and gentlemen! What does the practice look like? Very soon: In the past, we have granted over-flight permits. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You!]] We have granted authorizations for the transit of troops for operations. [[Abg. Oils: You! We're not!]] Again and again, it was necessary to bring together all those who were caught up in it, in order to be able to approve even small things. [[Abg. Oils: We don't!]] – Not you, of course! They are against everything at all, and that is why they are against it. Ladies and gentlemen! We also have joint troop exercises in Austria with troops from other countries. These are necessary and will be even more necessary in the future. We will have to use the resources of the individual countries and the military, especially because we have decided to take part in the joint EU intervention group and Austria is involved in international operations, Mrs Colleague, as you have hopefully come to know over time. That is why it will be increasingly necessary for us to cooperate more, that we find more common ground and that we, Mr Kiss, have already mentioned it, of solidarity, which we have committed ourselves to, to reflect accordingly and to draw the corresponding consequences from it. It is only for the sake of order that I should also like to take our decision of the Joint Committee. Foreign and security policy, Petersberg's tasks, the partnership for peace to which we have committed ourselves. This bill takes account of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9332	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9347	Yes, Mr President. – It is about the functioning of this European solidarity, security and a corresponding legal basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9377	The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9399	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the SPÖ – I turn to you here: In contrast to your fears, as we have already heard, it is more about speeding up administrative processes and respecting – and this is very important – commitments to partners in the EU who have been made under a Social Democratic Chancellor. On the other hand, Mr Kostelka, I expressly note that this is not a question of further erodement of Austrian neutrality. Also an internal connection, as you would like to see him, with the Security Doctor regarding an early alliance determination is certainly not given. What is the purpose of this innovation? If you look into it, you will find a lot of technical points, including: clearer definitions; the legal implementation of the decisions of the EU or the OSCE must be made possible; the Federal Ministry of the Interior should also be given the opportunity, under certain conditions, to take certain necessary security measures; and finally, what is important to the Ministry of Defence, there is a clear regulation on the import, export and transit of war material. If I explain this to you by means of a single example, you can see that this is a useful novel for which it is high time: If today the Ministry of Defence has a nightglass for testing and wants to send it back to the company after testing, then the Federal Government has to deal with it. This is an absurd situation that is corrected. It has been referred to several times in Article 23f, which has also been brought here on your initiative and has been decided by you. At the time, they knew exactly that the law needs a revision. Your main concern is, if I understand you correctly, when it comes to the question of the stationing, entry, transit and transit of foreign troops. I remember very well the debate about the SOFA agreement, which was also held at about this time, which did not find the way in this House and which you probably dealt with in the main committee at that time. This SOFA agreement has wide-ranging areas. You remember: There we have made NATO-verbands concessions that intervene far into the Austrian legal situation – much more than this law here – and the SPÖ has been silent at that time. Mr Schieder was, I think, your spokesperson in committee at the time. The SPÖ is probably silent. At the time, Alba, the NATO-led mission of Alba, was not under the leadership of the United Nations – because you, Mr. colleague, said there was no Austrian neutrality violation. – You are now smiling a little, Mr Kostelka. You know exactly that this mission could hardly find a cover in the Austrian legal situation. It was erased from the table. I then pointed out, in connection with this cable car accident from Cavalese, that we could get into a situation similar to that of Italy on the basis of this agreement. My concerns were erased from the table. They have created a situation to which we today confess ourselves according to the principle of "pacta sunt servanda". But the agreements were concluded by you under a Social Democratic chancellor. However, I do not see why – and it is difficult for the public and, above all, our European allies and the rest of the EU – why decisions taken under a Social Democratic chancellor are right, and if they are implemented under another government, they are almost highly stylized to the threat of neutrality. This is one thing that is not understandable to me, Mr President. One last sentence: Article 2 approves the temporary residence of foreign troops under the condition "to the extent that the Republic of Austria does not oppose obligations under international law or predominantly foreign policy". Mr Kostelka! We agree that Austria is still neutral. Neutrality is an obligation under international law. So why your fears? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] There is nothing here that is fixed in the laws of Austria. We are logically all of us, including the coalition partner, are committed to complying with Austrian legal provisions. Austria is neutral. This area cannot be violated. [[Abg. Arbitrators: He only says: "It is not an obligation under international law." He says it is legal, but not international!]] Mr. Schieder! Neutrality is a legal and international obligation, I am firmly convinced of that. But what I do not understand is the production of a junkim between this law which regulates practice and the question of discussion about the Austrian doctrine. If you did, you would take the opportunity, at least in the next three to four years, but perhaps for a much longer time, to participate in Austrian security policy. You are an essential party in this Republic, and it would, I believe, be a mistake, and it would also be a shame if you were to withdraw from this joint work.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9444	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9466	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Whenever the members of the government start to talk complicatedly, they have something simple to say. That's the same thing in this case. It's not about any parts of the federal constitution, about any complicated legal problems, it's about: ÖVP and the Freedom Party want Austria to join NATO – point. And nothing else. They want the security policy of the Republic of Austria to be subordinated to the U.S. Supreme Command. They want the decisive security politician for Austria to be a little talented and rather international-based president named Bush. That's your plan. That's your political plan, and because you're not ready to put it on the table specifically after this election Sunday, which is open to the table, try to "ampuate" the law for so long until, in your opinion, there is no more neutrality. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Moscow! Moscow!]] You have recently made a urgent request about violent and law-breaking members of the left scene and, and, and. – What do you think of a foreign minister who explains that essential laws and constitutional provisions of this Republic exist only on paper? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: A lot! The best foreign minister!]] – That was her literal formulation! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: An honest...!]] Part of the Austrian federal constitution exists only on paper for the foreign minister! – What does that mean for the implementation of a law when a member of the government declares that neutrality exists as a law only on paper? Is this law no longer to be followed? And what does that mean by other laws? Can a social security law, a school law or anything else declare by the Federal Government or a member of government that this provision exists only on the paper, and that is why it is no longer in compliance? – This is the way in which this federal government deals with laws, and it is therefore important that the National Council and a qualified minority enter into this National Council. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This barrier is called two-thirds majority, and they won't break you either. Now, of course, we will discuss a security doctor, and we will also try to make it clear to you that you can remove terms, neutrality – whatever you want – from simple laws: Nevertheless, the bar lock remains in the constitutional rank, and then you will bite out your teeth! This will not change. But I still have a small question, and perhaps anyone specifically from the area of the Army News Office is prepared to answer this small question: What do you have before in the area of war material exports that this law needs to be innovation? What do you have before, for example, in the area of war material and dual-use and chemical exports to Iraq? Why are there new trade delegations in Iraq again? Why is there strong freedom of contact with Iraq? Why are there constantly businessmen with political backgrounds who want to show up in Iraq and start business? Why is it planned to set up a new foreign trade delegation with almost diplomatic status in Iraq despite embargo? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There are also social democratic contacts in Iraq! That's incredible! An absolute scapegoat!]] I say it quite frankly to you: Because you and your financial counterparts, Mr Schweitzer, want to do your business with regimes such as Saddam Hussein in Iraq as soon as possible, and there is the war material law in your way, and there is neutrality in your way! [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You've had a mistake with each other again!]] If it also serves to prevent business with Saddam Hussein – even if the liberals still have so much interest in it – then it will be a great concern for us to protect these provisions from you in the Austrian National Council! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9594	The list of speakers is exhausted. The debate is closed. We now come to the vote on the request, the Committee on Internal Affairs to report on the Government template concerning a federal law amending the Federal Act on the Import, Export and transit of War Material and the Arms Act 1996 as well as a Force Residence Act, 428 of the Supplements, a period of time until 9. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9630	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 4 and 5 of the agenda. The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9654	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Before I address the subject of Bundesbebeschaffing GmbH, I would like to hide back or replicate the voting behaviour of the Greens in connection with the amendment proposal Dr. Feurstein, Böhacker. They voted against the creation of financial resources for the implementation of the Melk agreements in connection with the Temelin nuclear power plant. However, they also voted against the possibility that seismic investigations in connection with the Krško nuclear power plant could continue. – This is how your anti-atomic policy, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, looks like: Shame! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser:... Mr. Trittin!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The combination of the procurement of goods and services has long been the state of the art in the private sector for the use of synergies, as it is so well said. It was therefore only a matter of time for the public authorities to take appropriate measures in this regard and to achieve a uniform procurement, a pooling of the procurement projects. I was therefore actually very optimistic when, in principle, all the political groups in the Committee on Finance and said that the use of synergies in the procurement sector should in principle be seen as positive. Of course – and I don't want to hide this at all – this type of procurement is quite sensitive to see and an act that needs to be examined very closely. Nevertheless, we all have to agree that we should not contradict the long-term demands of the Court of Auditors to use these synergies, but, quite the contrary, we should take account of them accordingly. If we really want to talk about this Bundesbebeschaffing GmbH, we need to understand which goals we want to pursue, and there are, of course, various entries: There is, on the one hand, the use of the synergies in pricing and, on the other, the Greens believe that there is the possibility of adopting a certain steering measure by the acquisition of large units by the federal government. I or the Liberal Group, we see this in such a way that there is not a single or a single one here, but – quite the contrary! – both as well. We should, on the one hand, take the financial resources that make use of financial synergies and, on the other hand, take certain steering measures where possible. The Federal Procurement Act creates the legal basis for this. Therefore, once again: We should not use in the sense of either-or, but in the sense of both-as-also the advantages of such a federal procurement GmbH. And since, ladies and gentlemen, there is the difference between the central procurement in the private sector, for private companies, which usually only see the financial advantage, and for the organized procurement sector in the Federal Republic of Germany. But I also say quite clearly: We must be very careful so that, on the one hand, it does not lead to a so-called demand monopoly and on the other hand, because of the size of the orders, it does not lead to a bidder monopoly. I should therefore like to make the following request in this context, in the sense of the Austrian small and medium-sized economy, in the sense of Austrian jobs, but also in the sense of domestic value added: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Kiermaier is not in the hall. [[Abg. Kiermaier: Sure!]] – Yes, my colleague, please apologize. Mr Kiermaier, if you do not agree with this request, then oppose the small and medium-sized economy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Of course!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He doesn't!]] – He does if he does not agree. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He doesn't! He's right!]] In this context, I refer to the statements made by the Social Democratic Members in the Financial Committee, who, in principle, have said yes, on the condition, Mrs Hagenhofer, that there is no discrimination against the small and medium-sized economy. You said that! With this amendment, we have not come to you a step, but many steps, and I therefore find it absolutely incomprehensible that you are from the SPÖ the the small and medium-sized economy that workers in these enterprises simply leave in the rain – especially Mr Kiermaier, who is probably one of the few, if not even the only one, who has been working for the medium-sized economy in the past, because otherwise there is only very, very modest at SPÖ; but also Mr Kiermaier, as Mr Haigermoser clearly says, has only done this verbally. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Just verbally!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Just verbally!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Only by the fact that the Minister of Finance by regulation has to determine the goods and services to be obtained under this federal law, taking into account small and medium-sized enterprises, jobs and value-added – that is not a cannibal, but it must set them! –, is guaranteed that it will not come to the exploits as you have described them. Ladies and gentlemen! It is nonsense when the Social Democrats explain here that every pencil potter, every eraser, every breakfast semitrailer is to be centrally advertised via a Bundesbebeschaffing GmbH. Mr Kiermaier spoke of the book trade and office articles: It's white nonsense! Look In the law, you address the corresponding product groups that are in question here, and explain to me here – come out! – which medium-sized operation offers electricity, natural gas, heat, telecom services, postal and data lines or fuels! Which small and medium sized operation does this offer? – This today offers mineral oil companies and not the gas stations! That's obvious. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we should really in the sense of the Austrian economy, in the sense of a certain steering effect, in the sense of a economical handling of the Austrian tax resources of this Bundesbewerbung GmbH give the consent, although I say that there is no reason for an without-if-and-but-but, there is no reason for euphoria, but... – Mr Kiermaier, what is this supposed to mean? [[Abg. Kiermaier goes to the speaker's desk and gives the speaker the text of the government template.]] [[Abg. Kiermaier: That's it! Office furniture!]] Where's "office furniture"? [[Abg. Kiermaier: There!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Not at all... [[Abg. Kiermaier: "office furniture and office materials" – please very much!]] [[Congratulations and bravo noise at the SPÖ.]] Where? - It's not scheduled, stand in there! Mr Kiermaier, please read carefully and do not come out and say anything that does not correspond to the truth at all! Mr Kiermaier, you are simply here on the wrong steamer and you are living in the Stone Age!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9881	"Double conferences" are not in itself provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but the attempt to make a correction is exceptional. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Kiermaier! Not enough!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: It is nowhere that it may not be!]] The amendment tabled by Mr Böhacker, Dr. Stummvoll and colleagues is sufficiently supported, is also in a sufficiently factual context with the subject matter of negotiation and is therefore involved in the negotiation or then in the vote. The next speaker is Mrs Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9923	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This was a very nice demonstration of the dialogue of the coalition government parties. [[Abg. Böhacker: Should I chat with you as well as the colleague Kiermaier with me?]] After the assessment of the Court of Auditors, the Chamber of Economics, the Public Service Trade Union, the Office of the Lower Austrian Government, the Federal Ministry of Public Performance and Sport brought in massive concerns – and then obviously they did not read the law properly and still live in the Stone Age; I hold that – and in the Budget Committee all these concerns were repeated by us and hardened by examples, you were absolutely not prepared to even think about changing this bill at one point or another. [[Abg. Böhacker: All of this has been taken into account!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: They all agreed!]] If you were indeed serious and concerned about the participation of the opposition, you would have given us this amendment at least a few hours ago, for God's sake, as usual in parliamentary handling! This would have given us the opportunity to examine the proposed changes in such a way as to ensure that at least the worst of our concerns would be eliminated. The biggest problem for us is and remains that in the case of EU invitations to tender in the service sector, a threshold of 1.2 million schilling – 1.2 million schilling, please! – exists, and you know that too. If you write out it across the EU or together, this alarmingly low threshold is reached very easily and immediately and exceeded, and that is to say, massive buy power drain into Europe, negative effects on small and medium-sized enterprises. What you are offering here is that everything is now regulated by the law, I must say, is too little for us! In his speech, Mr Böhacker raised the question of the objectives of such savings. He meant that the use of synergies with regard to the price was on the one hand, and on the other hand it was also a possible steering effect, and he meant that one must strive for both. However, if I have now looked at this amendment in a short time, I have to say that the use of synergies with regard to the price in the law is recorded, but the possible steering measures that may be relevant to environmental considerations in procurement are then somewhere in a regulation where we have no opportunity to participate or influence it. Therefore, if the intention of this federal procurement law is only the savings and nothing else, then the small and medium-sized enterprises and the regions will have to pay the token. Environmentally relevant considerations, the regional employment situation, economic growth in the regions remain on track. That is why my group will not agree in the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, in the interests of employees in this area and in the interests of the regions of this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e9991	Mr Böhacker spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10015	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The previous speaker said that the representatives of the government parties had not shown a willingness to change just one millimeter, even one addition to the proposal, in the financial committee – it was not the budget committee, but the financial committee. - That's wrong. Rather, the following is true – and I am correcting this statement and referring to the "parliamentary correspondence": "In order to obtain the consent of the opposition parties, it was boldly possible to make efforts until the second reading to include parts of the explanations relating to the conservation of regional supply structures and the safeguarding of the opportunities of small and medium-sized enterprises in the legislative text." We've announced that, and we've done that. That's why your statement is incorrect!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10053	The next item is the report by Mr Finz, State Secretary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10075	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Procurement Act removes a major disadvantage from the previous administrative organisation of the Federal Government. The site principle leads to the fact that, although we have only one local authority, the same things are purchased from different buyers, all of whom have no idea of each other. I have always wondered why, for example, we are buying large-scale computers of the same type, with the same computer equipment, with the same programs at different prices. That can't be good. I would like to make a mistake, Mr Kiermaier, as soon as possible. There is now no central purchase, just as there was at the post or at the railway, where there was a central, a regional camp where one had to wait for a certain goods for weeks. This company will only conclude framework contracts, and the decentralised buyer will conclude this framework agreement with a specific individual contract with which he then collects a certain quantity. That's the big difference. There are no goods moving back and forth, and that is very good. There are still exceptions. Look at § 4 para. 2 Z 2 on! It provides that, if something is particularly urgent, one can avoid it. But this also applies in case you could get something even cheaper. Not even then, because one has said yes, one is forced to buy it there too. In the meantime, if you get a little cheaper, you can buy the cheaper goods. I would like to have such a fine constellation as a buyer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Huber: That's all right anyway!]] Please? [[Abg. Huber: This has not been criticized either! That's all right anyway!]] Yeah, I don't know what else to criticize. I recommend you look at the explanations on § 2. In this, the procedure of this society is very precise. First of all, society buys things that no small and medium-sized enterprises have so far offered, such as energy, motor vehicles and the like; only these things. Then an evaluation is planned, and only in the second passage – explanations, "Special Part", to § 2 – are provided for office or office purchases, even though the explanations state that this society must carry out regional procurement – i.e. not procurement across Austria. A preference of the domestic industry cannot be expressly written in because this would contradict EU procurement standards. We must continue to adhere to the EU's substantive procurement rules. Moreover, this is a purely organisational law, by which the material and legal procurement rules are not amended. What now brings us this creation of a Bundesbebeschaffing GmbH? We assume – and this is also mentioned in the explanations – that there is a supply volume of 5.7 billion schilling per year. If we value very carefully – you estimate higher percentages, but we have deliberately adopted a low rate of 10 percent – this means that only when purchasing means a savings of 570 million schilling. We can use this money well in other areas. We have made the following arrangements with the departments so that we can give an incentive to use this central procurement agency: For the year 2001 everything went on anyway, the savings remain entirely the resorts. For the year 2002, we decide on the budget for these days, as the savings also remain entirely the place of business. From the year 2003 we offer the resorts a 50 : 50-rule to: 50 percent of savings remain in the resort loans and can be used differently, 50 percent flow into the general budget. But not only this discount solution saves the department's purchasing costs, it is still necessary that calls for tenders are now made by the Bundesbebewerb GmbH, framework contracts are concluded. There's a lot of operational activity behind that. This activity is then saved in the individual procurement bodies. This also reduces the planning effort, and we expect a further savings potential of an estimated 100 million. This cost of saving is now an additional burden for this society, but we will keep it very small. We assume that this society will cost about 30 million schillings. All in all, then, a savings of at least half a billion. They call for structural reforms and have done so again today. If you're serious, you'd have to agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10131	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10153	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Secretary of State has now made a very detailed and clear statement of what is to happen with this federal law on the creation of Bundesbebeschaffing GmbH, which is intended to move this society. It will certainly be the case that this is also a small budget consolidation measure and that the framework agreements to be created are certainly also a small part of an administrative reform in the field of procurement. The Ist-Situation was presented. That is to say, so far, the principle of the place of residence applies, and there is no coordination at all. As a result of the volume pooling and the volume of demand, savings are now to be made. Rightfully, you have to ask yourself: Who has to carry these savings? I would point out that, of course, in the case of an order for a larger quantity, production costs are, for example, reduced. The law also regulates what does not fall within its own scope. And then Mr. Kiermaier comes and saves the small and medium-sized enterprises of Austria by pointing out the school book action – I think that was an invention under Kreisky at the time – and to what extent paper and bookshops would suffer from this central procurement. [[Abg. Böhacker: Ha! Ha!]] [[Abg. Huber: A very good invention!]] [[Abg. Reheis: A good invention!]] He also leads the Federal Railways with the dried-out ballpoint pens and with the empty flashlight batteries. Böhacker's request and silently acknowledges that this is not happening. This request concerns the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises with regard to the protection of jobs, with a view to respecting regional needs and needs. It is possible to establish goods and services by means of a regulation by a minister. I have no doubt that this law will bring about a so-called smuggling management, although I understand the concerns. If I remember – as long as it hasn't been – that then Minister Hostasch, together with then councillor Ederer, wanted to decide on a 90-million-shilling funding, whose beneficiaries of industrial bakers should be anchor bread, for the alleged protection of jobs, then it would be close to regulating by such a law that even the semitrailers would then be distributed throughout Austria. A socialist finance minister would certainly also buy it – despite all the logistical problems. So it is certain that this law does not distribute dry ballpoint pens or dry rolls and semitrailers in Austria. Guarantee for this is a blue-black government that chooses a different way of doing things than the socialists used to do. This is also guaranteed by a Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser, who knows very well where the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises lie, who knows very well how important it is to maintain jobs in the regions as well. This is a law to narrow down the state, to reduce costs, to relieve the taxpayer. And I think that's good for all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10217	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10247	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hofmann, this was a real provocation for me as a follow-up speaker, as an environmental spokesperson: That's good for all of us. - I can't believe it. I would like to return to the point which I have tried to clarify to you in the committee and which is really an important thing. If you have only savings targets in the case of central procurement and do not pursue content objectives – i.e. environmentally sound procurement, energy saving et cetera – if you are in no way capable of combining them, then this is an evidence of poverty. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Both as well!]] In particular, you say that you are always at the border with the Czech Republic and say: No nuclear power import! No temelin power to Austria! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I now and here at this point ask for a guarantee that this call for these 1 billion schillings will not import a nuclear current in addition to Austria. As long as this is not the case, I can in no way view this agency as any progress, and I am annoyed that you have not responded to this central accusation in any way. [[Abg. Böhacker: You have a one-dimensional view!]] I would like to prove it to you once again, because I have the tender documents there. The key points of this invitation to tender have been carried out under "process as part of the concentrated procurement of energy". I am going to read to you what the key points of this call for tender are, because this has really been a provocation with these advances. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Your party comrade is for nuclear power!]] The cornerstones are given below: Community policy, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary It is in no way executed or in any way guaranteed that this tender will give this one billion schilling to an Austrian electricity group – and that is relatively much money – but it will be awarded to anyone from the European market – whether this is the EdF or the E.ON – for the cheapest bidder principle. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who wrote this out so far?]] It is not for me whether a billion schilling of electricity costs of the Republic of Austria is receiving a foreign atomic giant or Vienna electricity, I say now quite Army. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You have fought for years against the expansion of hydropower! Who was against the hydropower?]] And I don't think that can't be you. It's about the federal buildings, it's about the universities, it's about the schools. I believe that the Austrian schoolchildren will be grateful if they may have to get Temelin electricity in the future just because you are unable to include in such agency descriptions the major objective of ecological, environmentally sound procurement in any form. I really find that disappointing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you have a detailed invitation to tender? You have the cornerstones, but you don't have a detailed invitation to tender!]] Now I'll tell you again – these are the documents; You can look at them afterwards – which are the cornerstones: According to the low-cost bidder principle, there will be no environmentally sound procurement in the electricity sector after these templates. [[New calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] You're welcome to represent this. You can explain to the schoolchildren why they have to purchase Temelin-Power, who want to build solar power plants in their schools. [[Abg. Böhacker: Why did you reject the financial resources for the environmental impact assessment for Temelin? You have to explain this to us once!]] I now come to a few other criticisms. It's about 6 billion schilling procurement volumes. This is a pretty strong central purchasing power. There has also been another massive criticism from our side, namely: All power the Minister of Finance! What I don't see at all and what no one can explain to me is why the two managing directors and four members of the five-member Supervisory Board are appointed by the Minister of Finance, why the Minister of Finance can give general instructions and instructions in individual cases. Is this now your type of depoliticization to give instructions in individual cases in procurement contracts? I don't know, and I think you can't argue. It can only look like there are certain preferences in individual cases. Or what else is meant to be "witnesses in the individual case"? [[Interlocutory note by State Secretary Dr. Finz.]] You can change that, that's not a problem at all. Why do instructions in individual cases? [[Secretary of State Dr. Finz: The Minister has the responsibility of the Minister!]] - Yeah, well, Prime Minister responsibility. But that's a little bit of a one-sided ministerial responsibility. Our third criticism: 6 billion Schilling procurement volume. There have been very, very many critical opinions. The question of small and medium-sized enterprises has already been raised. And now there's an amendment at once! You have to decide. When you say, We want to award large orders, we want to centralize, we want to make a budget consolidation!, then we cannot say at the same time: Wash my fur, but don't wet me! This is a completely bizarre situation: On the one hand, one should write out EU-wide but on the other hand ensure regional supply. Somehow, you have to decide – this is especially addressed to the members of the ÖVP –: How is that really meant? Other criticisms: This will be inflexible, will not meet current needs, it will take a long time, it will be centralistic, inflexible, plan-economic. What we wish for is the following: We want a procurement that has a certain role to play. We want to take account of certain criteria, including content, when it comes to procurement. These are ecological criteria – keyword: Energy saving lamps in Vienna. This is a simple but nevertheless good example, because the acquisition of energy saving lamps throughout the town hall has been amortized within two months. Such considerations should be considered, a model effect should be sought. We appeal to the half Republic to obtain organic products, but the Republic of Austria is unable to pursue such fundamental objectives in its procurement business. That's really bad. Finally, one more point. If you set yourself the goal of optimizing costs, I think it has to be – it has also been spoken about the square of the circle; that is a line – that is possible to follow other criteria of content, whether this is environmental procurement, whether this is a certain preference of, for example, women-friendly companies – it has also given critical opinions of the so-called women's ministry – et cetera. So it must be possible to combine content objectives with them. Everything else is a witness of poverty and fits only into this philosophy: Save on devil come out without thinking about future things in any form. That, I think, is not a policy that is viable for the next ten years.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10424	Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10448	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glawischnig has just said that the school classes will be grateful if, ultimately on the basis of this law, they receive electricity from Temelin. I claim that this statement is incorrect, because the ElWOG regulates the use of electricity from third countries from nuclear power plants that do not comply with Western safety standards, so that it is impossible for such electricity to enter Austrian networks and is therefore made available to school classes. I would ask you to take note of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10485	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First we reach the vote on the draft federal law on the establishment of a federal procurement company with limited liability in 486 of the supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an additional request by Mr Böhacker, Mr Stummvoll and Mr Comrades. I shall first vote on this supplementary proposal and then on the draft law. Mr Böhacker, Dr. Stummvoll and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new paragraph. 2 refers to § 3 and the resulting changes to the description of the paragraph. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this supplementary request by Mr Böhacker, Dr. Stummvoll and Comrades, for a sign in this regard. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the 2001 Federal Finance Act, including the title and receipt in 547 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (419 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Performance of an Additional Contribution to the International Agricultural Development Fund (IFAD) (542 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (425 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on mutual assistance and cooperation in customs matters (543 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (383 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the promotion and protection of investment (544 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (420 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Zimbabwe on the promotion and protection of investment, including Protocol (545 of Supplements) 10. Point Financial Committee report on the Government template (443): Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Nepal on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income taxes and the Protocol (548 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10623	We now come to points 6 to 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Mr Müller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give him this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10647	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The IFAD is a special organization of the United Nations with the character of an international financial institution. The IFAD's task is to promote agriculture in the Member States by granting loans on favourable terms and non-refundable grants. At least 67 percent of its funding is intended to make the Fund available to the poorest developing countries free of interest. The allocation of scarce funds should take into account good project implementation capacities of the beneficiary countries. Austria is the Convention establishing the IFAD with effect from 12. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== In July 2000, the Fund had 161 members, which are divided into three lists of countries entitled to vote. The first list comprises 22 industrialized countries, the second list of twelve Member States of the oil exporting countries organisation and the third list of 127 other developing countries. In the summer of 2000, the resolution on the fifth replenishment of the International Agricultural Development Fund with a total volume of 460 million dollars was adopted. This replenishment is under the motto: Partnership for the eradication of rural poverty. The breakdown is made in such a way that the industrialized countries will spend only $360 million, the OPEC countries only $40 million and the developing countries themselves will spend $60 million. Subject to the parliamentary approval, Austria will participate in this fifth space with an amount of about USD 5.9 million. The amount of Austrian contribution was fixed in negotiations and corresponds approximately to the economic and financial power of Austria in relation to other industrialized countries. The contribution is filed in vouchers and, taking into account the previous redemption profile, the redemption of these Federal Treasures is expected to take place in the period from 2004 to 2008. This financial support to the poorest developing countries is intended not only to improve their agricultural structure but also to pave the way for self-help. More than 30 projects will be supported in 2001 alone. An old folk wisdom notes on the subject of "self-help": If you give a fish to a hungry person, he will thank you, eat the fish and wait for the next one. If you don't give him anything, he'll be mad at you. That is why the Council: Show the hungry one the fish pond, lend him fishing and net, and teach him to catch fish himself. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As far as the level of this state benefit is concerned, one can be of a shared opinion. With these around 90 million schillings, we are in the last third of those industrialized countries, which are very happy to call themselves rich. If you divide this amount for five years, which corresponds to the allocation mode, Austria makes an annual contribution of 18 million schillings to IFAD. When I take away the 1999 funding report, which will promote everything in Austria in millions, the IFAD contribution is very thoughtful. I see the controlled support of developing countries not only as a must for a member country of the IFAD, but also as a Christian commitment to provide financial support to the poorest of the poor. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10705	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10726	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will address the government template for the International Agricultural Development Fund even more closely. In advance, a note on the bilateral agreements with Ukraine, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Zimbabwe and Nepal. We welcome these agreements, but would like us to see bilateral agreements concluded not only in the economic field, on customs and tax matters, but also in the cultural field, in order to achieve a people's understanding, a deepening of contact, especially with our Eastern European neighbours. Now on the Government template concerning the International Agricultural Development Fund: Mr Müller has found very nice words to represent this international assistance. But I think you should also think about the orientation of this fund. Although we will agree with this law, we think it is necessary to consider whether the objectives pursued here can really be achieved by these means. In our view, the ambitious goal of halving the number of poor by 2015 cannot be achieved with this fund. Also, 460 million US dollars, a certainly not small amount, will not be enough to alleviate the structural problems of international agricultural trade. This, ladies and gentlemen, is at the heart of the question: world trade relations in agriculture, the question of WTO rules. This is the central issue of an offensive development policy, an offensive rural policy in countries that are currently far from being favoured. Although 67 percent of the Fund's funds for the poorest developing countries are planned in Africa in particular, it must be said that environmentalisation is not currently a priority within the framework of the Fund's activities. I think it would be necessary, from the Austrian point of view, to ensure that food is not produced by agricultural means in third world countries. In particular, these low-currency countries should improve, optimize and develop their agricultural production through ecological, biological optimization methods. Here, Austria would have to give some impetus, a boost towards organic farming also in the Third World. In particular, under tropical and subtropical conditions, ecological development is the only sustainable and only possible way to make sense of agriculture in these regions. Another aspect which is not insignificant is the question of which countries and under what conditions money is distributed. The question of human rights is to be asked, the issue of the ILO Convention is important here, and both are not yet included in the procurement directives. There too we should set impulses from Austria. In particular, however, clear environmental targets for such international funds need to be developed. Before that, we cannot close our eyes and calm down the fact that 18 million Schilling has been given annually for development aid to the poorest in the world, because at the same time we are maintaining an agricultural policy at European level, which contributes massively to the destruction of these regions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We've got to put that on the table. Where is the clothes we wear produced? – It is produced in the cotton growing areas of Africa. Where, then, do the feed which is partially fed in our farmlands come from? – They come from the poor regions of Brazil and also from the Asian countries. That's actually the cracking point. If we not only want to make lip confessions, but rather to develop an open, clear and target-specific development policy, we must also move forward in the direction of ecologisation and social standards in these projects. That's what we're doing. Nevertheless, we will vote in favour of this request. However, without a radical change of course in the European agricultural policy, these measures will only remain a drop on the hot stone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10789	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 419 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimous and therefore accepted. – I correct: This is not unanimous, but adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is now – I’m careful – actually unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on mutual assistance and cooperation in customs matters in 425 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – I see unanimity. That is why the request has been accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina to promote and protect investments in 383 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I see unanimity again. That is why the request has been accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Zimbabwe on the promotion and protection of investments and the Protocol to be approved in 420 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted again. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with the Kingdom of Nepal to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in the field of income taxes and Protocol 443 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (284 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Counting of Workplaces (Laboursanstaltungsgesetz) (528 of Supplements) 12. Point Report by the Economic and Social Committee on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 13. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 14. Point Report by the Economic and Social Committee on the petition (7/PET) for the rescue of the Schönbrunn bath, presented by Mr Erwin Rasinger (531 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10935	We shall now proceed to items 11 to 14 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. We are going into the debate. President. — The debate is closed. I'll give him this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e10962	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome the Minister, but unfortunately he is not here. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We are talking about the government template 284 of the supplements, the employment census law. It is clear to everyone who is self-employed that it is for both national and European observation – oh, I welcome the Secretary of State! – economic development is necessary to produce statistics in the field of the economy, and this, of course, includes the counting of the establishments. However, it is important to ensure that the activity of the companies involved in such research remains within a reasonable framework and does not come from one survey to another, thus hindering the ongoing work in the firms. It was therefore already in the past years – and I attach great importance to it, ladies and gentlemen – a concern of the governments that regulations are being made here that take account of both the requirements of meaningful statistics and the needs of businesses. Finally, there should not be any need for an economic fidelity in order to fill a questionnaire carefully. What this costs, everyone who knows the so-called fee guidelines, who has absolutely nothing to do with an account. This novel to the Labour Counting Act follows the previous efforts and goes in the right direction, because the employment census 2001 is the last of its kind. I don't mourn her. It will be replaced in the future by the so-called register counting. An evaluation of the data available in the business register and in the business register at the Bundesanstalt Statistik Österreich – which is now called the former Central Statistical Office – is the basis for future counting. This register is not only a discharge for farmers, it will also save the Republic time and money. Thus, as mentioned in Z 2 § 3, the question of the legal representation of interest arises because it arises by itself on the basis of other surveys. It is also very important to note that, if a company has several workplaces, the questions by name or name of all other workplaces belonging to the companies, the number of persons employed there and the nature of the company's activities mainly carried out there are not covered by the focus. The textual playback of this passage is already difficult, let alone the filling out of these forms and questionnaires. Finally, I would like to repeat the demand I have made in this House several times, namely the fact that the host belongs to the restaurant, the merchant in the shop and the craftsman in the workshop – and not all of them stoplessly in the office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11013	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11035	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The current economic debate deals with four templates. As a tourist speaker, I am of course allowed to deal with Mr Schwemlein's request concerning the model regions in my contribution to the debate. The other proposals will be dealt with by colleagues Drinkl, Mitterlehner and Pecher. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member, Mrs Schwemmlein, for the excellent work he has done. In this proposal, you and your colleagues from SPÖ call for a concept of model regions to be developed and implemented in order to provide important impetus for the tourism industry. I would like to point out in principle that the objective of your request is definitely positive, correct and welcome. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, Mr Schwamlein, we have rejected this proposal from ÖVP and FPÖ in committee for the following reason. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Then put the request of the wrong!]] I would like to justify this so that Mr Schwemlein too knows why it has been. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Because the wrong man has put him!]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] In the last two years, the Federal Government has set up important initiatives for the Austrian tourism industry, which have gone exactly in this direction, Mr Schwamlein! You have been so comprehensive that I believe that your application for model regions has long since become obsolete. Mr President, I should like to thank Apparently you have never heard of the new regulation of top tourism promotion. I don't know where you were when the restructuring of the Austrian advertising took place. I do not know if you have inquired about or have been concerned about the work of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour in relation to the destination management. All these are things that deal with what you have put in your request. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: There's a little more there!]] Yeah, there's still a lot of possibilities. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Wrong is the direction!]] But it has happened so much, Mrs Colleague, that you also need to know! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes, I know!]] I would like to take a brief look at some of these positions. With the promotion of top tourism – and I am sure everyone will agree with that – an increase in professionalism and an improvement in the efficiency of the market presence is to be achieved. This is achieved on the one hand by promoting cooperation at the operational level and, on the other hand, by cooperation at the organisational level, whether in the tourism organisation or through cooperation in the regions. This is promoted by 25 percent, and for all cooperation in the regions it is even 30 percent. A few words about the Austrian advertising: They know that due to the reorganisation, the regions and the different destinations can offer their services directly. They can also buy the basics of their services directly, so that there is tailor-made services for each region. There is a marketing cooperation whereby all marketing activities are presented and the regions can participate directly. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! If all this goes by you, I don't know where you've been in the last one and a half years. I want to deal with the destination management a little closer. In the case of: We are pursuing a new competition and development strategy for the regions seeking international positioning. You know exactly that this project was launched in September of last year. In addition, 14 holiday regions have joined forces; I think it has become 17 in the meantime. This destination management leads to a controllable and strategic managed development unit that can offer the guest much more. It can respond to the needs of the guest and also sell itself much easier on the tourism market. This tourism management means that forward-looking providers of a tourism region form a mandatory regional quality and marketing association. There is huge savings potential. I think these are essential things that have been worked out in the ministry in conjunction with managers. These actors in the destination management have to assume overall responsibility. You have to maintain the networks. They not only call for entrepreneurial action, but also for themselves, because they are on the ground. They have to plan the development discourse and not simply let everything happen. You have the lobbying to organize. I think they also have a common thought to live there. What do you think could be better than what has been done in the ministry with these people in the local regions up to now? In addition, experts, scientists, specialists are attracted to carry out control and benchmarking at the end of the day. All the data and key figures that are generated with this are summarized and documented in the Destination Management Cockpit. Benchmarking is used to investigate how other industries have solved similar problems in order to be able to work in tourism with assistance from this area. I think these are developments that we have not yet had. At the end of the day, this also goes exactly in the direction you have proposed. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I hope in these few minutes I have convinced you that measures have been taken that make it possible to reposition Austrian tourism in the best possible way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These initiatives will significantly increase the competitiveness of tourism. The creation of model regions, as you have called for, Mr Schwamlein, has been a long time ago, that is no longer necessary. The proposal looks a little old, like some of your ranks. [[Abg. Sweamling: Which one of us looks old...!]] In my opinion, it is self-evident that it is no longer necessary to implement such old proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11163	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11184	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! I do not want to interfere in the debate on who looks older now. But I think you win, dear Emmerich! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Gaál.]] [[Abg. Swimming: Thank you!]] I would like to take a short look at the workplace counting law. Hand at heart: Who knew before this agenda was published that there was such a thing? – All who deal with communities have known it because these workplaces are counted every ten years, the last time in 1991 and now again in 2001. It is good that this is an important basis for statistical data; all of this has already been said. However, I would like to know two things here. I have – because these census documents already exist in the congregations – once looked at how these workshops are counted and what is counted there. Among other things, the employees are also counted in the respective workplaces. In the explanations, I have found that all employees are counted up to seasonal workers and minor employees, even if they only work for a week. If I imagine that this count serves as the basis for employee statistics – today it has already been the talk about it – then I also know that, generally speaking, full employment, which is always so much the case, does not by any means mean full employment per employee. It would be very interesting to also count how many workers there are who are only able to sustain several part-time jobs or less jobs. I think that the data collected here is somewhat inaccurate to the statistics, with which everyone changes and boast that we have full employment. Also a Second, I noticed in the first section. It is stated in this section 1: "This count must be carried out together with the ordinary census of 2001 in order to reduce the administrative burden." I then take the front page that this is about 10 million schilling costs, but the total cost is almost covered in the 2001 census. This has shown me how administrative reform is actually thought: It is already famous in § 1, that one works in such a way as to save administration and costs, but with no syllables it is mentioned that these 10 million schillings will be mostly carried by the Austrian communities. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian communities are replaced by 14 s per head and nose as a substitute for carrying out the census. If you calculate how much this census actually costs, you get 100 to 150 s per head and nose. At the expense of the local authorities, of course, it is easy to save administrative costs and then settle down and say how "good" one is in this administrative reform. The Minister's reply in the Committee was rather unsatisfying to no answer at all: He just sucked with his armpits. A specialist then told me: What do you want, the municipalities may have these data anyway, and the municipalities will have this data at their disposal. – Wonderful: If we collect the data ourselves, then we can have these data! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's right!]] Another issue in this context is the following: It is registered... [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: They can do that!]] Yeah, that's right. Having the data that we ourselves collect – this is, of course, a huge "gift" to the communities! Another thing: This will no longer be necessary in the future, because there will be a register counting. But who collects the data for the computer? – The communities, the officials in the communities! This is not mentioned here at all, it is considered to be a matter of course. Where is the registration of the people? When do you finally try to make the census permanent, so that the funds can also be paid out annually per capita and according to the population? - It's getting much quieter. As far as the workplaces are concerned, they will be counted each year in the future. But who will do it then? - Probably the municipalities again. I think that this small example of the law in itself shows what the government parties and what the governments are worth. In Sunday's speeches, the communities are the most important and the germ cell of democracy. But when it comes to who has to bear the costs, you also know: The communities will do that. I think this is an increase in the Austrian communities, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11254	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11276	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! If you are a mayor – I am no one, but my predecessor is one – to the speaker’s seat, I do not think it is entirely permissible to pick out and say something in part: The Federal Government transfers and causes costs for the communities without refunding them. – As I know, it's going in both directions. But as mayor, it is probably permissible to register a claim here. [[Abg. Swimmling: What is not quite allowed...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Labour Counting Act is an important and necessary basis for economic statistics. It is a necessity to be able to estimate and react to developments in the economy. Therefore, it is not just a need for European law to carry out this every ten years, as it has been enshrined in the previous Labour Counting Act. There will be a register count in the future. This means that unnecessary surveys and statistics – a bureaucratic effort for businesses – will be reduced accordingly. There will be unnecessary surveys. The effort will be reduced and, ultimately, a cost savings will occur. To this end, we welcome this law as another law, which contributes to a slimming and a form of red tape, though modest, but nevertheless. This corresponds to the line of this federal government. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Puttinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Puttinger has already pointed out, the concept for the model regions of Mr Schwemlein is an old proposal, which certainly had its permission. But to give the approval of old and outdated requests should not be expected from this House, at least from my group. With regard to all the importance of tourism, the tourism and leisure industry, with all the appreciation of the actors, the employment situation in this very important industry – the Federal Government has already set up substantial initiatives. The implementation phase has already taken place, and so to speak, much has been done in the positive sense. In my opinion, the destination management goes beyond the application Schwemlein. [[Abg. Asshole: But you didn't read it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The data we know from the tourism sector – the number of nights, but also the figures of sales – is good. It is certainly not – even if they show a clearly positive trend – data that is suitable for leaning back, but rather an incentive to continue along the path that is now under way. A guarantee for this is certainly Mrs. Rossmann's Secretary of State. I am happy that this government has recognised the importance of tourism and has created its own State Secretariat for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11332	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11354	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Clearly, it is also a question of culture, of debate culture, of how to deal with applications. There are two ways to do this. The one is to deal seriously with the content of an application, and the second is simply to reject the application categorically and try to present it as if it were an old hat. – It’s far from that! Dear colleague Puttinger! I thank you for the first part of your speech, in which you have correctly recognized that this request contains important, right and, in your opinion, forward-looking steps. The second part of your speech – Mr Hofmann said it similarly – shows me that you are not seriously dealing with the situation of the leisure and tourism industry. I am saying this because everyone here has to recognise that the leisure and tourism industry is not separate, but is seen as a unit, and that tourism as a whole cannot be reduced to economic contexts. I have already received such an example from Mr Hofmann. He says: We have nocturnal numbers that are okay; the sales figures are all right. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger, too! You don't want to hear that!]] Mr Hofmann! Let me give you the following example: We have 30,000 kilometers of ski slopes and 3,000 lift companies in Austria – I'm doing it this way. If now 100 lift companies lock: Do we have more ski slopes then? – But really not! What, then, is the comparison of turnover and netting? – All these reductions to statistics are a plot. I'll tell you why. Let us assume that there are many debates here in the house – I do not want to play different economic areas against each other now – primarily on the subject of agriculture. Agriculture contributes to GDP, which is between 1.6% and 2.4%. The leisure and tourism sectors contribute to GDP, which is 15 percent. We employ 500 000 workers in this area. What I am missing is lobbying, as is legitimate in the agricultural policy – I welcome it – but I lack it in the leisure and tourism sectors. Therefore, the attempt to obtain your consent with this request to continue to grasp and to think further. I would like to mention the reason for this. Mr Puttinger! I understand very well the need to present myself accordingly from this speaker's desk. Questions like: Where were you?, didn't you...? And so on, they're not new. I suspect you spoke of a summary of the destination management monitoring. I have read this very carefully, Mr Puttinger. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] I have therefore read this very carefully because I am interested in the development of what contributions we make as an aid to the Austrian leisure and tourism industry. I say it quite openly from this point of view – I have already said it to the Secretary of State: I am happy about the step in this direction. But this step is far too narrow for me, too short a step. I'm going to make this happen to a specific example, because I'm going through the whole thing. One of the regions participating in this destination management monitoring is the European Sports Region, consisting of the two municipalities Zell am See and Kaprun. Do you know what the first round of talks has achieved and what the next rounds will result from the given path? – That the two communities must recognise that they are not able to stand on the market without further cooperation, that they are not able to bring about a marketable offer without further cooperation. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Until the year 2000 it was not recognized! That's positive now!]] That is why my motion for a resolution, which I have tabled with my friends, provides that we form a model region that is much larger. From this model region – I offer this from this point on – we form two model regions in order to capture and draw conclusions from different developments. Let's create these model regions to see how to combine the existing parameters of the leisure and tourism industry with the corresponding moderation, how to bring them to the success track! The fact is, ladies and gentlemen: If we are not prepared to realize that every step that is being taken, whether this is the bringing together of promotions – perfectly in order, impeccable – or something else, that all our effort is necessary in order to become a driving force in one of the most important economic areas, if we are not prepared to realize that we must combine the local infrastructure in the field of leisure and tourism industry with the tourist offer, because otherwise we will not bring about diversity and completeness if we do not do so, then in the long run we will benefit from the beautiful speech of statistics at all, but, unfortunately, the area of leisure and tourism industry will suffer a breakdown that no one in this House wants.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11419	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11440	Ladies and gentlemen! This debate on the possibility of a positive move in tourism, and Mr Puttinger's attitude to it amazements me. I would like to explain why this is so, for the following reason: [[Abg. Haigermoser: The puttinger understands more of the business! Have you ever been to his inn?]] We know the situation in tourism. If we look at them a little more closely, it is primarily marked by a society of envy, which – sufficiently shortsightedly – is not even able to think out over the next season, and unfortunately in much too many areas. There are also other examples. The church tower policy between municipalities and tourism associations is a grey for future tourism development. Unfortunately, in this diagnosis, one has to agree in Austria today across all party borders that this is one of the biggest problems for the future of tourism development, even though it is about the pioneer generation of tourist development going into retirement and no longer finding successors who are willing to bring the necessary self-exploitation for this short-sighted church tower thinking to the slopes. In this area, we must make every effort to counter it. They say the destination management monitoring is the central and important way to do this. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: One!]] – I totally agree with it. But why should there not be several attempts in such a critical situation – and the problems only now come to our attention – to deal with these problems, especially if the model regional approach goes far beyond pure destination management and advertising, which I would see as the only possible concept of the future? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Puttinger! Your attitude in this area is small-minded, extremely small-minded, and you feel the same church tower thinking, which you rightly criticize with many tourists, just like I do. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: My businesses are all fine! You should run farms yourself! That's what I'm waiting for!]] If you now address the fact that the Federal Government had already provided such enormous services in the destination management and for the cooperation of the regions in this area, I ask you why the country of Tyrol had to go some years ago to disburse special funding for tourism organisations so that they could even join forces. This is an approach that is somewhat incomprehensible to me, because if you have to pay for economic reason first, so that it even occurs so that you can market together at all, then it cannot be far from that whole story. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger:...! You don't know that!]] The capital parked at tourism associations is not from bad parents and often lacks where it would be important investment for the region. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You have an idea!]] Mr Puttinger! If you also talk about the great achievements of the Austrian advertising and its restructuring True, a famous leaf was not this scandal about the Austrian advertising with God! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: I didn't say that!]] What is happening here is in terms of salary payments, the change of the board and, and, as far as, is concerned, is probably well known and has also rightly gone through all the media. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: I got from the...!]] On the other hand, if I look at the current balance of this Austrian advertising, I would just like to give you what I heard recently in a conversation with German tourists who called this advertising campaign of the Austrian advertising with a German expression "snored". Perhaps there will be a real need to take some new ways and think a little more than just driving in the old tracks – so to speak with a few of Matthias Hork's future ornaments on it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Perhaps Mr. Trittin! Or Joschka Fischer probably!]] I can only tell you one thing: I don't understand you if you reject this request. On the one hand, why don't you constantly propose not to make any proposals if, on the other hand, you already fulfil any proposal that comes from the opposition – even if it isn't at all! – term? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: An entire list is available!]] With such attacks on anyone who so to speak agrees with you in the diagnosis, but proposes another therapy, you will be disbelief. We could, I think, move a great deal together for a successful tourism development if at last some openness were to be noticed on your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11596	The next speaker is Mr Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11625	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to very much support the statements made by my previous speaker, Lichtenberger, because I really believe it is important to develop such ideas. It is important to further develop tourism, which is one of our important economic pillars, and this requires innovative ways. And an innovative way is certainly the development of tourism regions, which is completely undisputed. There is no way to say that the concept "Tourism Region" is obsolete just because one creates a destination management for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] This is not the same because there is a very different regional summary here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: It all happens!]] No, no, no, It does not happen, because otherwise you would have accepted the motion for a resolution immediately, because we are not so far apart in the objective. On the contrary: I believe that the objective is clear to us that we should benefit from these advantages of cooperation, that the tourist offer belongs to a summary. In the end, tourism can best be forced by the fact that places of a larger region present themselves together, show that they are attractive, and therefore appear interesting from the offer side so that people can drive there. That is the decisive! We're not far apart. In view of the fact that the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour has found in a study of December 1999 that it makes sense to create such tourist regions, it is all the more incomprehensible to me that it is still discussed in the Committee or here whether it is needed. It is precisely this need that this study has shown very clearly! I also believe that we must do everything we can to create a network of leisure infrastructure, which in turn means that we need a high level of cooperation in the region. That is the decisive! This willingness to cooperate, I say, has not yet been so well developed in the regions. That's why we are, and there may be the mental difference. We believe that this willingness to cooperate should be supported and promoted, and we also see the difficulties in establishing such cooperation within a larger region. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that this should be tested in a model region, in the sense that one looks at the positive and negative results and asks why something has worked better or worse or even worse to achieve them based on them. I have really noted with regret that this in the opinion: We've done it all anyway! It has been rejected. I claim it was done a lot, but you can do a lot more – and that's what it's all about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, the question of the tourism region – and I quote from the study mentioned above – is "an important key to success". This is also the result of this study. It would be extremely important for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are in difficulty with internationalisation and cannot present themselves properly, to have this support, so that they can simply bring their offer into a comprehensive framework. Also from the point of view of the municipalities: While a lot is happening in the local authorities at the moment, there is a lot of investment in leisure, tourism, but not every municipality is in such a way that its offer is sufficiently recognizable and accepted. And no municipality in the rural regions is able to offer a comprehensive offer alone. That's why: There must be specializations. I know how difficult it is to bring communities to a cooperation that one community creates a leisure facility for the other, because most of the time the same leisure facilities has been built in several communities – or it is missing in the whole region at all. For example, it would be a planning approach for the communities to say: You have the bathroom, we have the tennis courts and so on! – where all municipalities should have certain facilities, but in the baths this is no longer so natural – because the region as a whole benefits. That's the decisive thing. You should not always ask: Can we afford that? – Not alone, then we don't. In the region itself, the planning approach must be: We create a common tourist offer that is attractive to all. For example, if I see in Lower Austria the chance of the Therme Laa an der Thaya, which will take place in May of the Spatial Foundation: This is a tourist region that has the Thayatal National Park in the north, then Retz, the Retzer Land, the Pulkautal and just the Therme Laa. This means that we have a wonderful tourist area at 30 kilometers, from which every single municipality can benefit. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing this. That is why we need such model regions to play through them once. I already know that it may be difficult to admit that good proposals are being made and therefore approval cannot be given as expected. But one thing I have to say: This proposal by model regions is a very unpolitical but very economic proposal. I do not understand why – for which reasons always – with the hint, we do this anyway a little, no consent is given. I think we should confess to this common procedure, because it brings tremendous benefits to the whole region, but ultimately to every single municipality and to tourism companies. I think it's unfortunate that we don't find a consensus here today, but maybe we'll get together next time. In terms of content, we are not so far apart. Another thing: I cannot understand the fact that we do not agree on Schönbrunner Bad, because in reality this is also a necessary infrastructure for Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11684	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11705	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to say something about the workplace counting law, but I would like to address two of my previous speakers. Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger! They're talking about envy society. – I believe that especially in the tourism industry today the term "need society" is simply no longer permitted. There are so many initiatives that develop together. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: It would be nice! Lech and St. Anton!]] There are so many young people who have been doing all that you dream of here for a long time. There are so many independent initiatives that work together. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Lech and St. Anton did not agree!]] I don't know where you're going for tourism. Tyrol was once a progressive tourist country. [[Abg. Asshole: You're not right, unfortunately!]] I hope it's still that. Maybe you're from an area where this isn't the case anymore. But I hope I'm wrong. Mr Pre-Deputy. What we want are living regions. We want regions in which something actually happens. Mr Bauer! We don't want model regions where we play. You can't artificially create tourism somewhere. We tried this. This has also happened in some areas, for example in the Upper Styria, but unfortunately God has not worked. What you can do is to strengthen initiatives that exist in a region. That's where you can help. In order for them to be able to work together so that they can present themselves outside, there are incentives, Mrs Lichtenberger. This is actually so simple in the tourism industry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What do we differ, Mr Schwamlein? – They are still based on a plan economic approach, we want initiatives in the regions. The regions must find themselves, and that is what happens. Just think of the South Styria, think of the Wachau, think of the Thermenregion! I could continue the list, across the map of Austria, and you would have to give me the right: There are very, very few white spots left, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a few words about the law on workplace counting. Everyone likes statistics, most popular politicians, so that they can quote from them at celebrations and here in Parliament as well. But if you do not like the statistics at all, they are the entrepreneurs; this has already been praised several times. Mr Gaßner! You can find a hair in the soup everywhere, a grey one, perhaps a red one, if you may meet with Mr Edlinger in the next few days, but the fact is that this law on workplace counting is a positive approach. If you had said this, Mr Gaßner, you would have done as much or as easily as you would have done with the opposite. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It has already been said that this workplace counting law brings substantial simplifications. I can therefore send two good news to the Austrian company: First of all, it is true that it will be easier, and second – and that is even more essential – the 2001 census will be the last in this form. And that is gratifying! I would like to express this very, very clearly and as proof that this Federal Government is not only talking about administrative simplification, but, albeit in small areas, is also a step by step approach to this administrative simplification. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Administrative simplification and de-bureaucratisation are not labels for us, but we are trying to take concrete steps in this area as well. Take this workshop counting law as proof that this federal government is willing to reform! We are serious about administrative simplification, including for businesses, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Labour Counting Act may not be a spectacular law, but it is a law that proves that this Federal Government is ready to allow simplifications for businesses as well. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11816	The amendment tabled just now by Mrs Dr. Drinkl, Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. Mrs Rossmann has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11840	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I am pleased that for the first time – I believe – there will be a detailed discussion on the principles of tourism policy and tourism development in Austria. In my view, this request is welcome. Now on the request and in general a few comments. I think there's a big misunderstanding here. There are differences of opinion which, as I believe, are not so far away from each other, which is why I would like to try to get them to the point. With this first professional destination management from the Ministry of Economic Affairs/section, we have used a total of 3.5 million schilling over three years. It is in Austria for the first time that one becomes an initiative from the federal side, so to speak, the initial inflammation to the destinations, the regions – one does not exclude the other – can also be much, much more so – to make a professional effort to deal professionally with the offer – since I am entirely with you, colleague Schwemmlein. There are so far, and this also confirms what you have said, different results. There are destinations, regions that are absolutely professional, where the offers are in conformity with the market, and there are destinations where I do not know how to proceed. But this destination management is the first step towards a model region; I'm right there with you. We lay the foundation stone once and then develop model regions from it. We are already very close to starting a model region, namely the model region Oberkärnten, 365 days of family holiday Oberkärnten, and this works as follows: Destination Upper Carinthia: The first part includes the Millstätter See, in addition to a hotel co-operation with eleven hotels that have joined in a holding – we signed the agreement with the Carinthian Economic Fund and the ÖHT last week –; eleven hotels with 1,200 beds, a common reception all year round, a shared kitchen, a shared accounting, a shared apprentice pool, a shared staff pool, a common laundry and, and, and,. This cooperation is valid for the whole of Austria. The second part includes the hotel cooperation in a model destination, region according to your own ideas, just 365 days of family holiday Oberkärnten. It will be exciting, it will be very, very difficult, and it will require all the forces, that is, all the municipalities, the country Carinthia, but of course also the Federation. So, if you want to, there are just differences of opinion. We are moving on to a common denominator, and so I can understand that you mean that you don't have to follow this request any more, because the model is already being created. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] One more sentence – and I can say that quietly with a little pride; Touristists have confirmed it to me with the statement: "So I'm still experiencing this on my days!" – under quotations –: We have managed for the first time to pool all tourism promotions in one place. There is no canossae from Pontius to Pilate of promoters, from taxpayers who simply want to invest, but at the ÖHT, all top tourism promotions are located in one place. We are even working together with the cooperation of regional development. I can thank you – I have made the same considerations – for: Tourism and leisure activities are not to be separated! That is why we have for the first time expanded tourism promotions to cover the entire leisure industry. That's a quantum leap! We have extended the promotions to the leisure industry in order to finally create the infrastructure that the regions need. Not only can you promote hotel investment, in whatever form, but we need the whole environment of the leisure industry to finally reach seasonal extensions in order to link up competition-dependent offers. That's the intention. As I have said, there is only one difference of opinion here, but I am nevertheless very, very glad that once again, in principle, a debate on tourism policy is being debated in this House. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11907	There is another speech by Mr Schwamlein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11929	High house! The statements of the Secretary of State have clearly confirmed that our request to God is not the same as Mr Drinkl presented to him, namely a plan-based approach – as you have put it, Mr Colleague – but, quite the contrary, it is a very innovative project. In summary of the statements made by the Secretary of State, I would like to say that her words are proof that it is not comprehensible why you, ladies and gentlemen, agree on content, but reject the request.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11961	Mr Ortlieb has spoken on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary time limit: Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e11982	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now talked a lot about this motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schwemlein and are actually of the same opinion, though not all. It's something true in it, but he's limping – let's say it that way – behind what the Federal Government has done so far. But the nice thing is that Mrs. Lichtenegger and also Mr. Schwemlein – Lichtenberger, apologies – also believe that tourism needs more lobby in Austria to work together. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger:... mountainr! Lichtenberger! Now you can finally remember!]] That's, I think, the main goal. [[New calls from the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] – Thank you for always interfering during my speech! Thank you! The lobby problem is old known. It always turns out to be people who think they're better than others. So much party policy is being done throughout the industry, and I am simply of the opinion that cooperation would be much better. We have often stressed the importance of tourism. For example, remote Tyrolean valleys would have been very close to extinction, there would have been no tourism, regions away from transit routes would have been no longer a right of existence, departures would have been the result. The liberals and also the government partners, the ÖVP, are all committed to the destination management. It's a step into the future, it's a start. One will learn a lot from it, and I believe that for Austria as a whole, for tourism, for what tourism is doing for Austria, it is very important that we continue to work on in this direction. The Secretary of State has set itself the big goal of implementing this programme, and I wish her very, very good luck. All too much I don't want to say anymore that I would, I think, just repeat what has been said many times. I hope there are other common approaches. We will certainly work to ensure that it continues in the sense of Austrian tourism. – Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12027	Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12048	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First a few words about tourism. Mrs. State Secretary, I have often told you from this panel that within the framework of your tourism concept, there is no consideration in any way for people with disabilities or for people who, for example, need dialysis on the basis of illness. For these groups of people, if they want to go on vacation, there is only one way to make a holiday abroad, because in Austria the offer is zero. Zero! Zero alone in terms of accommodation. There are hardly any hotels or hotels at all where you may also have accessible access as a mobility disabled person. There are hardly any opportunities for dialysis patients throughout Austria to make holidays, because there is no possibility of dialysis in a hotel or in the immediate vicinity, et cetera. We – with "we" I mean the disabled and the chronically ill – can only take a vacation abroad, in Austria we are forbidden because the conditions for this are not given. And I really think that is fatal, Mrs. State Secretary! On the one hand Page is always saddened that too many people do not spend their holidays in Austria, that they travel to far countries, on the other hand, you force these people to make a holiday abroad due to the lack of requirements. We disabled people have no chance of spending our holidays in Austria. I'd like to tell you that! You may say again, you will do something, you will accept this. I already know this phrase, I hear it when you say it again today, for the third time. Please don't tell me you don't believe any more! You promised to do this last time, but you didn't do anything in this area. Nothing done! I wonder why you are constantly excluding such a large group of people, chronically ill and disabled, from being able to go on holiday in Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it may be significant for this federal government that it has absolutely nothing left specifically for disabled people, for sick people. And not just that: It is tried everywhere and again to even worsen the living situation in this country for these people. With your tourism industry, Mrs. State Secretary, you have managed this optimally for yourself and apparently in the interest of your government group. But now to my request: Disability. Ladies and gentlemen! I am already aware in this House that I make every year my requests regarding the setting up of disabled persons in the Federal Republic of Germany, countries and municipalities and so-called state-based enterprises and enterprises. Heuer – very, very striking! – the number of people with disabilities in the public sector is declining for the first time, by up to 30 percent. What does that mean? – The public service, the individual ministries are no longer willing to hire disabled people, although they are legally obliged to do so! But – and you have also created the requirements for this – the free buy-out opportunity of not even 2,000 S per month is of course an offer that everyone uses. With these dumping prices, you will not create new jobs, but you will continue to reduce these few that still exist to the same extent as that has happened last year. I have often made my request here that the compensation tax should not only be increased by 10, 20 or 30 S per year – that is only the inflation adjustment – but that there should be a higher compensation tax for those who do not recruit who actually hit. In order to meet those who refuse to recruit disabled people, a compensation tax of at least 20 000, 30,000 S per non-occupied disabled workplace must be lifted. Then there is a real chance that disabled people will be recruited. Those who still refuse to recruit disabled people would at least pay so much money in the compensation tax funds that they could create new, innovative jobs. But you have been refusing this old demand of the Greens for years because you simply don't want people who are disabled in companies, in businesses, in the ministries et cetera. Ladies and gentlemen! The "advertising billions" you have taken away from one group of disabled people to give them to the other group will not bring you anything at all. They will not create jobs because companies and ministries simply refuse to recruit highly qualified people with disabilities. In other words, you will bring the disabled back into the so-called rotational door effect with this "Million of the disabled": They go or roll as unemployed disabled people into any dubious training possibilities and come out as unemployed. This is your labour market policy for disabled people, and this labour market policy can only be rejected, rejected and rejected! If you are not prepared to raise the compensation tax to at least 30 000 s, ladies and gentlemen, we will not get jobs for disabled people in Austria, then the unemployment rate will still be over 40 percent for disabled people, and that is truly a bad sign for Austria! It is up to you whether you are willing to increase the compensation tax accordingly, or whether you still agree that disabled people have no chance in the Austrian labour market. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12117	The next speaker was Mr Mitterlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12138	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to Mrs Haidlmayr's comments and to the following: The issue, I believe, is so important that we should never and never act in terms of disability problems. If it is assumed here that this one or that one in the public sector does not want to be disabled, then this, I mean, is not a good thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also not true that the coalition parties had rejected or rejected something, but the motion for a resolution is now allocated to the Committee, which is responsible – it was a Member of the Green Party who has rightly requested it – and will be dealt with accordingly. In the matter itself, I must tell you that from the point of view of the economy, not only for ethical and social reasons, the setting up of the disabled is an important issue, but also in its own interest because of the trends that arise on the labour market. In the labour market, we will soon have problems covering labour needs, due to economic development, but also through the development of the birth rate. As a result of the change in the labour market, the economy is therefore interested in including as many people as possible in the labour market. I say to you: not in the second labour market, but in the first labour market, where social security contributions are also paid. On the basis of the figures, we can also say, ladies and gentlemen, that there has been a positive trend in this area. The proposal, as he said last year, has already been overtaken by the figures, because we now have 80 000 posts in Austria due to economic development, and 53,000 of them are occupied. In the field of labour market management, we had in February 2000 – the most recent figures – prefaces of not all 33,000 job seekers. In 1997, there were 37 000, 40 000 in 1998, even in 1999 there were 39 000 people seeking work in this area. That is to say, economic development has taken a very positive course, which also demonstrates these figures. Now, on the proposal that has been put forward here, we should increase the tax on compensation. For those who are less concerned: Companies which fail to fulfil their obligation to employ a disabled person per 25 workers pay a compensation tax of currently 2 060 p. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: 2,000 S!]] And it is now the question to ask, Mrs Haidlmayr, ladies and gentlemen: Does it make sense for me to go to the level of average salary now, as it says in the application? I don't think that's gonna be one thing to do. I can't say that near the workplace in the forest district, in the Mühlviertel lives a really disabled person, who can actually get there and work there. In other words, there are often voluntary establishments, but no disabled persons can be provided by the placement of the labour market. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! If you ask for 30 000 s, it is a criminal tax directly for some of the establishments that want to, but do not receive disabled workers, and on the other hand, it is no longer a compensation or a compensation tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – Mrs Silhavy, which you do not support, is integration. They may promote precisely those prejudices that have already existed before and in other discussions. Ladies and gentlemen! The right path in this area is therefore quite another. The biggest problem, even from the point of view of the disabled, is not the tax, because the fund actually has enough money – even through the disability billions there are incentives – but also the protection of termination. Some disabled people do not want to do so to the extent that, when it comes to changes, an agreement must be reached by the Committee on Disability before the notice of termination, at the Federal Social Office, that there is a notice or notice period of four weeks, because usually such procedures take at least six months, if not more. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Where do you have the wrong data?]] In the interests of some disabled people, you seem to know very well your own concerns; I can document them accordingly - have tried to achieve deregulation, because the disabled do not want to be treated as disabled, but rather as any normal worker. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Ask the Federal Social Office...!]] [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore not the right procedure to abolish a criminal tax, here unqualified the compensation tax to raise a multiple, but one must do something in the field of qualification, employment and support. Here is the work assistance, for example, the introduction of a mediation procedure instead of termination, the more efficient and better measure for both parts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Incentives instead of penal taxes – these are the right options and methods that are also used internationally to really integrate the disabled into the labour market – and that is what you want. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12250	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12271	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! In my contribution to the debate, I too will devote myself to Amendment No 251/A (E) by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the increase in the tax on compensation under the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons. Mrs Haidlmayr, we know that each service provider is obliged to employ 25 employees each with a favored disabled person. If this duty of recruitment is not met, a compensation tax of 2 060 S per month and not an employed post shall be paid – not "nearly 2 000 S", but more than 2 000 S. Mrs. Haidlmayr! The sum you have addressed is, I believe, simply not realistic. The compensatory tax shall be valued annually in accordance with the adjustment factor of the ASVG. The last extra-touric increase was in 1986, ranging from 760 S to 1,500 S. The annual revenue is around 700 million schilling and is spent on the occupational integration of people with disabilities. This Federal Government has now decided to introduce a billion disabled people. Especially with this disabled billion – Mrs. Haidlmayr, if you would listen to me – a milestone is set for the disabled of Austria. [[Abg. Haidlmayr talks to Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner]] Youths and older people with favored disabilities are preferred, disabled people are cared for in the work process, and at the transition from school to working life, there is the possibility of a career accompaniment, a work assistance. This brings the disabled billions of people who are properly employed here: a significant improvement for the disabled! I would like to say to you: In the autumn of last year, a working group was set up which includes other representatives of disability organisations and the social partners, and the task of this working group is to discuss in depth the development of the law on the recruitment of disabled persons and, in the course of this process, to discuss a reduction in the tax on compensation according to the size of a company and after the respective compliance with the employment obligation. In this context, you should be told: On the one hand, your application has not only been allocated to the wrong committee, namely the Economic Committee, because the Social Ministry is responsible for the Employment of Disabled Persons Act and not the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and on the other hand, your motion for a resolution refers to the § 9 of the Employment of Disabled Persons Act, which has nothing to do with the justification of the requirement for the amendment of the Employment of Disabled Persons Act. ==References====External links== It was postponed on October of the previous year. ==References== He was renegotiated on March of this year. I can only say that much: If a request made by us as an opposition party had been postponed, he would never be on the agenda again. However, we have a different style We naturally approve of this proposal being allocated to the Committee on Budgets, and we will also agree that it should be dealt with there, although it is actually obsolete. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's right!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12321	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Pecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12342	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A brief change of topics, although the subject which is now under discussion is very important and interesting, is not a question, but I would like to say a few words about the Schönbrunner Bad. The worst thing for an entrepreneur, for an operator, for an economic operator or for a young business operator is if he wanders around in the competence jungle between the country and the federal government or between the ministries. You'll be sent back and forth like a pingpongball. Much personal use is lost, but in many cases much value added is also lost. I could bring numerous examples from my own company, but also from friendly companies and from well-known economic operators where such things have happened and where much money – including tax money – has actually been lost due to the ambiguity of competence on all sides. In the case of the Schönbrunn bath, it is not only about value added, but of course also about the well-being of citizens in the area of the districts affected by it. Short to the procedure: The bathroom belongs to the castle operator company. There was a tenant, but he died. In 1999 the bathroom was closed. The investment needed to bring the bathroom back to the front man in hygiene, so that it can be opened again, is about 25 million schilling. Another problem is very high wastewater and water charges. Others Wiener Wiener Baths have quite different rates. With the tariffs, with the normal tariffs, so to speak, with which the old tenants had to work, you can practically not run the bathroom cost-effectively at all, or find above all no new leaser. The problem is: After Mr Erwin Rasinger's petition for the rescue of the Schönbrunn bath, for which 1 000 signatures have been collected from surrounding districts, the craftsmanship began. The Federation is not responsible, but the country, i.e. the city of Vienna, which would actually be the beneficiaries, because it benefits the well-being of the citizens of Vienna, says: We don't have any money, we're not responsible, that's actually federal matter! This has been going on for a few months now. The petition was made in May 2000, and there is no clear opinion to date. That is why a motion for a resolution has been tabled in the Committee so that at least another small sign is put forward. In this way, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour is asked to work to ensure that the city of Vienna reduces the waste water and water charges accordingly, as is the case with other baths in Vienna. This motion for a resolution is now before us. The Minister of Finance would theoretically also be willing to take half of the investments if the other half were to be made differently, whether by the operating company or otherwise. Finally, I would just like to say: It will be shown – there has now been a great deal of talk about the sensitivity of Mr. Häupl, about the sensitivity of dealing with the other parties – as the handling of this request in practice, when it comes to a district that does not belong to the core area of the Socialists, whether there is a small thing being done for the benefit of citizens in the districts affected by it, so to speak, according to the extent that is common in the other Vienna baths.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12396	Mrs Rossmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12418	Mr President. High house! I have once again spoken in order to replicate the Members of Parliament. I am sorry – but perhaps it is also a debt for me – to have to tell you, Mrs Haidlmayr, that you are not up-to-date. I'll give you the right. All in all, Austria has a very, very high demand for follow-up – starting in the public sector and going all the way to tourism, hotel industry and gastronomy – with regard to the expansion of wheelchair access to guestrooms, to hotel rooms and so on. For this reason, together with the Social Ministry, we have already set up a working group more than half a year ago in order to develop a catalogue in cooperation with disability organisations, which has the title "Hairy construction and equipment of tourism companies – hotel and gastronomy". I was recently at a hotel opening and was shocked at how little information is actually available. I was shown a supposedly disabled room, and there the light switch was placed about 1.7 or 1.8 meters high, even higher than that of normal light switches. The bed was much too low. As a result, I asked: What's really disabled right here? – To this they gave me the answer: It's flattering! I can see how it is for a disabled person who goes off in a hotel or who is a lot on the road or who, of course, also wants to go on vacation, maybe as a dialysis patient. In order to initiate this process, which is still subject to an appropriate awareness process in Austria, we have awarded the award at the "Guest 2001" at the Innovation Exchange to a company that has brought international but also Austrian businesses to the Internet. Under "Tourism on the Internet" you will find detailed information about the accessibility of public and tourist facilities for older and disabled people. This company has received the first prize, just as a signal that there is still much to do in this area and much to be done. Secondly, I would like to tell you that we will also be devoting a platform to this area in the Austrian advertising of the Internet portal production, in order to present the tourist facilities here. Finally, I can tell you that we will be awarded the tourism prize – every year by the Ministry of Economic Affairs a tourism prize – to the best operation with the right facility and accessibility and with dialysis station. That would be the most beautiful. Maybe we can do that. Perhaps this is also an incentive for tourism companies. I cordially invite you to attend this award ceremony.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12469	The next item is the speech by Mr Neudeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12490	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleague Pecher has already commented on the topic "Schönbrunner Bad", and this is not only about the bathing operation, but also about how to send operators or tenants to and from the Federal Government in the competence confusion between the city of Vienna. At this petition for the rescue of the Schönbrunn bath, in 1999 – after 146 years! – had to stop his operation because the former tenant died, it is about putting an end to the bathing closure, which, according to the SSKB's will, Schönbrunn-Kultur- und Betriebs-GmbH Castle, and the municipality of Vienna, should be a permanent one, because no one wants to take over the costs of the renovation. Only a citizen initiative had to point out that the Schönbrunn Culture and Business GmbH is required by federal law to maintain this popular swimming and leisure facility and cannot therefore be taken from the responsibility. 4000 signatures have been collected and delivered by the mayor Günther Kasal to Ms Mares Rossmann, who has an open ear for the concerns of this citizens' initiative and who has said that the Schönbrunn Society is known to have a large volume of investment and that it should therefore also assume that something should fall for this historically grown bath, which is an integral part of the Schönbrunn complex. More than 50,000 bathers would have been forced to escape into other, often overcrowded baths when closing this bath. The Schönbrunn- Kultur- und Betriebs-GmbH castle, which was distributed in 1992, was not ready to take over the cost of almost 27 million Schilling. No new tenants could therefore be found. Nor was the municipality of Vienna prepared, as we have already heard, to grant the same conditions as for the urban baths in terms of water and wastewater costs. The discussions between the SSKB and the municipality of Vienna moved. Svihalek City Councillor made a declaration of commitment against a schilling to take over this bath. However, after several months of the city of Vienna's failure to submit suitable proposals for the takeover of this bath, the search for tenants began about a year ago. Unfortunately, due to the delaying tactics of the city of Vienna, a second bathing season, which cannot be consumed, is "secured". The discussions are currently under way with private tenants. In support of this search, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour was asked to grant, in the interest of the population of Vienna, the previously refused framework conditions for water and wastewater costs as well as for urban baths. The municipality of Vienna has already caused two years of bathing. I hope that the colleague Bauer from Lower Austria will also be convinced of the continued operation of the Schönbrunner Bade and that this is necessary for the population of Vienna. I am looking for him to say well to Mayor Häupl or to the competent Bade-Stadtsrat that the city of Vienna does not prevent the 2002 bathing season, but because of the intervention of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour this bathing season is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12548	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12569	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will also focus very briefly on the topic "Schönbrunner Bad". This was known to have been the whole thing because of the construction for the management of the plants in and around Schönbrunn, and there is some sort of disseminating activity there. Measures should now be taken for the Schönbrunner Bad. I'll send you in advance: Of course, it is not a core competence of the federal government to operate baths, that is certainly right, but simply to point out that it is now the mayor of Häupl to negotiate and lower some fees, it cannot be either. Even in the Committee, the representatives of the government groups have agreed to the procedure to say that it should be possible for the federal government to remain in duty until a reasonable solution has been found. If the resolution in question refers only to the fact that the fees for sewerage and water are to be reduced, I must say: That seems a little bit to me. That is why I believe that, when it comes to the rescue of the Schönbrunn bath – that is what many people want – this resolution must be very reserved. We shall also express this with our voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12602	No one is reporting on this. That is why this debate is closed. There is no wish of the rapporteur for a final word. We shall therefore proceed to the vote immediately. I shall vote separately on the individual requests made. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law in 528 of the supplements. To this end, MEPs have Dr. Drinkl, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Hofmann and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. First of all, it is agreed on the part of the law concerned by the amendment, then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. I repeat that Deputies Dr. Drinkl, Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. – That is unanimously decided. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – These parts of the draft law are also unanimously adopted at second reading. This concludes the second reading. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal in third reading to give a positive signal. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. Next, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 529 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to do so to give an appropriate sign. – The report shall be taken note of by a majority of 529 of the supplements. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 530 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign of approval. – I notice: Notice of the report 530 of the Supplements shall be taken unanimously. I agree with the motion for a resolution 251/A (E) to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 531 of the supplements. In the event of consent, I asked for a sign to be given. – The National Council shall decide... [[The SPÖ Members are about to sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I repeat: We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 531 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. [[Abg. Haigermoser: ( towards SPÖ) After what is now?]] [[The representatives of the SPÖ shall stay.]] – I notice: The notice shall be taken by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee Report 531 of the Supplements. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this resolution to give an appropriate sign. – I notice: The resolution annexed to the Committee's report 531 of the Supplements is adopted by a large majority. (E 73.) We have thus dealt with these points on the agenda. 15. Text of resolution adopted by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 6, 7 and 9 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 3 and 5 to 9 (444 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12703	We're coming to 15. Agenda item. There is no need for oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. The watch is gladly set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12730	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the opinions and contributions made in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, I should like to say in advance: So different people, so different also the topics they deal with. This second collective report this year is once again a colorful mixture of concerns of the citizens, with a very clear factor: that the savings of the Federal Government have a great influence on the concerns of the population. I would just like to draw up a few examples here, for example the Citizens' Initiative No. 5, which is about the Civil Service Law Novelle 2000. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the fact that civil servants have been almost hungry for this austerity policy, that they often have to resort to saved reserves, that they have to take advantage of the help of their parents, is unworthy of a state, especially in view of the services provided by civil servants for society and also for the discharge of the state. We Socialists have already warned of the consequences of civilian servants in the light of the revision of the Civil Service Act. Unfortunately, the government parties did not listen to this problem. Also in the field of citizens' initiative No. 6 – This is the guarantee and legal anchoring of the activities of student consultants and student consultants at vocational schools – unfortunately, savings measures have been announced. This important institution for professional students – I emphasize, these do not have as many opportunities as other students – is threatening. Mrs Muttonen will go further into this and point out the need for a counter-controlling measure. It is also about the financial sector – we have already heard about it today, and it has been discussed in the last debate – in the rescue of the Schönbrunn bath. We have heard that the citizens experience something that unfortunately they often have to experience in this state: They are delivered to a warp of competences. I have looked closely at the opinions. The Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations, for example, says that this bath does not fall within its scope, and the Federal Ministry of Finance explains that the primary responsibility in this matter lies with the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, and so it continues. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that swimming is important, something healthy is that you can swim in any age class. I have to tell you that I was also involved in citizens' initiatives, and it was not about such a beautiful little thing as the Schönbrunner Bad. At the time, we had two indoor pools in Innsbruck. We too collected signatures at that time – a total of 20,000 – and thank God these baths have not been closed. I wish the initiators for the rescue of the Schönbrunn bath, who have already collected 5,000 signatures, much success for their citizens' initiative, because I believe that it would be important for people to swim there – it was 50 000 people who have frequented this bath – and because it would be important to preserve even in terms of historical aspects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the petition No. 9 is about the noise plague of the anrainers of the Inntal-Autobahn in the Erler municipality area. This is also a personal concern to me. In principle, I am particularly concerned about all the measures that concern the people involved in transport and transit. I can say that I have been an activist for a very long time and have also done a lot to stop traffic noise. The fact that we in Innsbruck have managed to really build noise protection walls, to build up, to build viaduct arches along the railway, we owe this to – and I see it here just – the former Minister responsible at the time. He has been very helpful to us, and he has been very helpful to the Innsbruck population in this regard. That was really bourgeois policy, and I would like to thank him once again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, however, there are others to be thanked, and there is also an open ear to this with the competent gentlemen of the ASFINAG, also with the Office of the Tyrolean Government and with the responsible officials in the Ministries. You will probably say something to this, Mrs Haller. I really wish this initiative in Erl much success and wish that people there, despite everything I say, because this initiative is already going beyond the border, come to a noise protection wall and thus to a quieter sleep, because that is important for the Tyrolean people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, let me say a few words about the various citizens' initiatives in the Committee. We have already dealt with one, which was the citizens' initiative No. 7 by Maximilian Jäger on the maintenance and extension of high quality standards of schools, defence of Party-politically motivated changes in school laws and service law. I am sorry that we could not achieve a majority in the committee. This would also have allowed this citizens' initiative to be allocated to a committee. I think it would have been worth assigning it to a committee. I note that many citizens' initiatives and petitions on education, on the subject of education reduction, on the subject of the reduction of the maximum number of students have been reached in the last Committee meeting. I hope that this survey – it has already been announced – will come about, and I ask the government parties to be very careful about all matters relating to education. There must be no turning point in this area, but the parents, students and students must be helped, they should not be confronted with tuition fees, with increased schooling and so on. It can't be like that – I'm thinking about the tuition fees now – that it's a question of money, whether I reach a study place, and not a question of intelligence. I would like to say that again in all clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whoever saves on the education system today has damaged the economic location for tomorrow and has just taken the opportunities for our young people, our future. I'd find that a pity! Therefore, one more appeal to you and to your insight. You'll see, voters don't thank you if it's ruled against her. Take citizens' concerns seriously! Save You're not in education! Save Not to the young people in our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12827	Next speaker is Mrs Gatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12851	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! First, I think we have to say that there is very good cooperation in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. I think it must be pointed out once again, because the climate in this House is very harsh, but we have always tried – thanks also to you, Madam President – to try to take account of the concerns of the citizens they bring in in the form of petitions and citizens' initiatives. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have already talked about this committee twice this year. We have said that he is an important instrument for the citizens with whom they are heard in this House, that they are bringing in initiatives and that they are drawing attention to shortcomings. But I would also like to stress in this context that the Committee has significantly increased the pace, the impact. We have only received a collection report twice in the last legislative period, but we have already received the second collective report in this legislative period. In the last legislative period, we had three hearings and a citizens' initiative and a move towards the recognition of blind dogs. In this legislative period, a very important survey on mobile communications has already been held in Austria – a topic that affects many people. We are preparing an event where diabetics can introduce themselves here in the house. And we are planning an on-the-spot visit to the student model in Mittersill: there is a traffic model planned. I believe that the Committee on Petitions is doing valuable work and that citizens' concerns are taken seriously. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Worm.]] I think it must be pointed out without addressing all the citizens' initiatives here. My previous speaker has already said that there are a number of them. They include transport, environmental issues, education concerns and civil service questions, which my colleague, Mr Kurzbauer, will address. It is very diverse what is being said to Members. I would just like to comment on two points. The first point is the petition No. 7 to save the Schönbrunn bath. I would like to say that although citizens' concerns are taken seriously, they also need a partner. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! After the election in Vienna, which you really won great on Sunday, you already have to say that the duties go on to you now. In other words, it is not usual in Austria – that would actually be unique – to delegate it to the federal government to ensure the cost of a bath for local citizens. If you look at the petition, then you will notice that the ball, to become an initiative in this regard, is clearly going to the Vienna city government. First, there has been a passage for over a year, the result of which was the agreement of the congregation to do something after the death of the tenant. At that time, it has been said that we will support the investments that are necessary there. Of course, this bathroom only benefits the Vienna and is important for the Wiener! But then you haven't heard anything at all. I think today's resolution is important. It shows that we take citizens' concerns seriously. But I think you from the SPÖ are now also obliged to tell the Vienna city government that it is already responsible for its own infrastructure and for the baths of the Vienna. [[Abg. Steibl: That's the way it is!]] [[Abg. Swimmlein: What always says: "More private, less state!"]] The second point concerns the citizens' initiative: Assurance and legal anchoring of the activities of student counsellors at vocational schools. . I would like to say that I have been contacted by this initiative several times and have been made aware of the valuable work that is being done in vocational education and training. There are many students there who have private problems that may have addiction problems, problems with housing, with integration and so on. I really found this work very good, and I also think it is very good that the relevant teachers have become an initiative and have spoken with the members of our committee. [[Abg. Swimming: Without payment!]] I really think all of this is very good and support it. I have also read that for more than 50 years, and this consultation has proved itself very well in the vocational schools in Vienna. This is really to be underlined, supported and welcomed! But because my colleague, Mrs Mag. Worm, saying that we are not doing anything about this, I must point out that we first decided to seek the opinion of the other federal states, and we have received the following comments: For example, the Kärntner Landesregierung informs: A legal anchoring of the activities of student consultants in vocational schools is considered indispensable for two reasons; and it is reasonable that the problems that exist in the vocational schools in Vienna are not comparable to those in Carinthia, among other things because the vocational school in the Federal Republic of Carinthia is not a full-time school. The following opinion was adopted from Upper Austria: There is no need for the setting up of pupils' counsellors in vocational schools. The same thing can be heard from Tyrol: There is no need for action and no immediate need for legislative action. It's the same way in Vorarlberg: Legal institutionalization of guidance teachers at vocational schools does not appear necessary. Only Vienna needs this advisory work, and I am convinced that it is necessary, and this is also included in the teaching chapter tomorrow. We support this, and Mrs Gehrer, too, has promised that she will continue to support this institution. However, we believe that, as the countries have said, it is not necessary and not intended to create a legal institution here again, which basically concerns only the Federal Capital of Vienna. I think it's important that we work well in this area, but I think it's just as important that the city of Vienna – now more than ever! – confessed to and funded by their own and most personal obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12933	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e12954	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to comment on one point in the course of this discussion, namely the motion for a resolution No. 9, which was introduced by me in the name of the Erler population and in which I am actually full of hope that this bringing in of the petition will lead to a kind end. I would like to thank Mrs Wurm very much for now being a representative of the second Tyrolean government party, the SPÖ, after the ÖVP, who has also announced to the public and from this pult that this noise protection wall is to be built and that this is really a common concern. That is why I also believe that this problem can finally be dealt with after long, long years. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Sweat.]] The problem of this noise protection wall or the concern of the Erler population is as follows: The noise is generated by a Bavarian motorway, and so that the noise protection measures are effective, it is necessary that the noise protection wall is built on Bavarian territory. The legal examination of this question has resulted – and therefore all the intentions have always been empty – that construction measures or the construction of a noise protection wall on the German state territory cannot be financed by ASFINAG in Austria. This approach has been going on for more than twelve, thirteen years. In the meantime, we have tried to do something at national level. I myself have been working here in Parliament for almost four years and have come up with a total of four questions to Mr former Federal Minister Farnleitner, then responsible, and to Mr Ex-Bundesminister Edlinger, then responsible. I have also been in contact with German posts, with German Members. All of this has ultimately led to the same result: Yes, the noise protection wall would be necessary, but funding cannot take place under these legal conditions. I said to myself: In the sense of a cross-border, united and common Europe, it cannot be so that in such small areas of the European idea cannot be grasped! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore very much supported and brought in this petition. This petition was discussed in the Committee in October and was gratefully received opinions from a total of three ministries: the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance and the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And after an initial statement by the Ministry of Transport, which was not very positive and which actually led to a great uncertainty of the Erler population, German Minister Schmid had already promised the learner the construction of this noise protection wall! – thank God there was an addition from the Ministry of Transport, in which it said that in addition to the first opinion – which just explained the legal position – the Federal Ministry stated that there is no legal possibility at present, but that the ASFINAG should be commissioned, together with the highest building authority in Bavaria, to find a solution for the negotiations. – This is the first success. The second success, which I do not wish to conceal, is the following: The Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs has suggested addressing this issue at regional level at the next bilateral working group in Bavaria – Tyrol and initiating funding under INTERREG III. A few days ago, from the chairman of this round of talks, the Bavarian-Tirolerian working group, Dr. Fritz Staudigl, I received the news that this meeting, the 40. Meeting of this round of talks, on 5 May. It will take place in July 2001 and will deal with this issue. So since all three – as shown above – confess "great parties" to this, I am very good things. Nor can I imagine that the Tyrolean Greens object to the construction of a noise protection wall. I am really confident that the petition here in the National Council will ultimately lead to a positive outcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13018	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13039	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Petitions, which I have mentioned several times and which has to be said over and over again, has become more important than ever last year, because the brutal austerity policy of this federal government has made the problems of the people of the regions much more difficult than one could ever have assumed. This is also clearly reflected in the citizens' initiatives and petitions that we have received. There are a large number of citizens' initiatives and petitions, for example, for the most brutal savings, the education sector, for decades, and a large number of petitions are also available for civil service. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That's not on the agenda!]] – Read the report, then you will see that the Citizens' Initiative No. 5 for civil service! Explorers First of all, you can talk to me without a doubt! First of all, and then talk, that's very important. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: What is this language?]] Civil service – which has been shown since the last year – has had to accept so brutal cuts that it is not usually possible for young men to perform civil service at all. And the freedom of conscience and the alternative of civil service have long been out of the question, but civil service can only make more of a family that can afford to finance the civil servant. [[Abg. Großruck: That's the same with German soldiers!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You will never be able to prove to me that someone can live for a month of 2 406 S! You, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, are not at all! But that's not your problem. Your problem is that you have always been against civil service and continue to be against civil service. They have tried everything to ruin civil service, on the one hand, to get more men for the army, and on the other hand to push back unloved associations, initiative groups dealing with refugees, with the disabled, with old people, which are usually very critical associations, by veneering the civilian servants. The automatic consequence of this is often the off for many of these small clubs. That was your goal, and you have achieved this goal! [[Abg. Grossruck: Everyone gets as many civilians as he wants!]] Many associations cannot work without civil service and without civil servants, so they simply have to give up their work for the service to people in Austria. [[Abg. Grandruck: Who says that?- Oh, my God!]] That's what you've achieved. I would like to congratulate you on having managed to ruin civil service too! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr. Strasser said in the summer – after his first failed novel on the Civil Service Act – that he would reform the civil service on his head and members. The civil servants and, above all, the contributors of this citizens' initiative No. 5 have therefore set yet a lot of hope that there could be a regulation in civil service, which is truly acceptable to the people, to the young men who make civil service. But the opposite has happened, ladies and gentlemen. Civil servants usually have to live at 2 400 s a month. You do not have the right to eat at least once or twice a day. Civil service can only make more of a person who wants to be indebted or for whom the family can pay for life. [[Abg. Grandruck: Who says that?! Please inform! Two warm food a day!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That alone is proof to me that you have managed to make the Committee on Petitions more important than ever, because the fears of the people and the needs of the people who bring in their petitions and start their citizens' initiatives are enormous. [[Abg. Murauer: Get some information!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mrs Gatterer said that student guidance in the vocational schools of the federal states was not necessary, the countries did not want to do so. [[Abg. Gatterer: That was the opinion of the federal states!]] They also quoted which countries do not want to. – Of course, these countries do not want to have that! There is a blue head of state and black heads of state there, and they don't want us to ask that, we knew that. [[Abg. Edlinger: Very right!]] Dear Mrs. Gatterer! The information you provided to the House was one-sided, was government information and is absolutely not in the interest of education, in the interest of the students, in the interest of the young people who sometimes have no chance of finding their contacts among teachers, at the social workers et cetera. You have destroyed this, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties. In the field of education, you have also broken down the possibility of a qualitative increase. As I said, Mrs Gatterer: That your head of state Haider doesn't want it – who would have suspected something else? - No one! And who would have suspected anything other than that your head of state in Tyrol did not want to? - No one in this house either. And that is why your statement in this area is absolutely not representative. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Grandruck.]] I would like the Committee on Petitions to make greater use of its possibilities to report to the various committees and to forward recommendations – all that goes far beyond that – to just pass on the petition. The Committee on Petitions would have the opportunity to make recommendations to the various committees. These recommendations are usually not possible, as the government parties of course refuse to provide the relevant information to each committee and the petition committee with relevant findings. Something was new to me, too. Mrs. Gatterer, I did not know that cooperation had improved. I have the impression – and I have been in the Committee on Petitions since 1994 – that cooperation has not improved, but has worsened considerably. All those citizens' initiatives and petitions that you are not right about because they oppose this federal government are simply trying to wipe you away and not treat you. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Kiss.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Perhaps the opposition is also responsible! Really! Always put everything on the others!]] That is the "new quality" in this petition committee, and that is truly not an improvement, but a deterioration! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kiss: You scramble anything! You don't know what you're talking about!]] One more word to you, Mr Kiss. You are not involved in the preliminary discussions on the Committee on Petitions because you are not chairmen of the political groups. That's why you can't say that I'm doing something about it. You can't talk about something you're not with.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13289	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13310	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to a point raised by my predecessor, Mr Haidlmayr, on the citizens' initiative No. 5, which is a change to the Civil Service Act currently in force. I am glad that this report is in place, so that the really devastating situation of the current civil service can be revitalized. Unfortunately, I must say that I am sad that this citizens' initiative has not been allocated to the Committee on the Interior. This has been prevented, and that is a pity. Ladies and gentlemen! A year has passed since the decision-making process, and it has happened exactly what we were afraid of during the discussion. The Civil Service Novel 2000 was a step backwards and is a blow to the face of the dedicated young people! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You must not be surprised, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that these people are angry with you and that they are extremely disappointed. I can only support the proponents of this citizens' initiative. They have found a headline for their citizens' initiative: Instead of helping solve social cases, civil servants are turned into social cases! – This statement hits the nail on the head, ladies and gentlemen, just as it is! With the decision taken in April of the previous year and already addressed today, the civilians have actually become alms recipients. What else are they when 50 percent of the effort compensation is removed overnight and the total amount of 3 648 s is available to cover the expenses of civilian servants? How are they supposed to get over the rounds? That's how they can survive. I'm telling you, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government: This is not the way to treat people who do valuable work for society, people who work in old homes, in hospitals, in the rescue industry, and who are mainly there for our older people in nursing homes! This is not how people are treated, ladies and gentlemen, and we by the Socialist Group will always be able to point this out, as it is today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13365	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13386	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is about the collective report, and this report deals with three petitions and six citizens' initiatives. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Haidlmayr, Mr Wimmer, too. I think you've only shown one side of the medal now, you've talked about the Civil Service Law Novelle 2000. They know, however, that another Civil Service Act Novelle 2001 has been adopted. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Even worse!]] [[Abg. Son of a bitch: Even worse!]] The situation now looks quite different; I will come back to it again. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would now also like to take this citizens' initiative No. 5 jobs. The subcontractor is essentially three points. First of all, the citizens' initiative points to the low monthly cost compensation. They lead to the reduction of the cost compensation with a sum of minus 48 percent, i.e. to an amount of 3,648 p. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Secondly, reference is made to the possible long waiting period for more than four years until the actual use of civilian servants comes, and thus also to the negative consequences of their life planning. Thirdly, it is pointed out that, for certain social institutions, as we have already heard from the previous speaker, there will be no civil servants available in old-age care or in hospitals, possibly from June onwards, or that they will no longer be able to maintain their service to the fullest extent. [[New call of the abg. Haidlmayr.]] Please, Mrs. Haidlmayr, listen to me now! ==References== January of this year the new Civil Service Law Novelle is in force. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: It's much worse!]] The accusation – please let me have a little time, listen to me! – the reduction of the monthly compensation for all civil servants by 48 percent is not comprehensible, because there has not been a fixed compensation for all civil servants until now. Rather, Mrs. Colleague, the monthly flat-rate remuneration was made with 1. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Haidlmayr: And how is she now? 2 406 S in 2001!]] Dec I would also like to point out that the right of civil servants to adequate food has now been restored to the legal system. As a compensation for this, the percentage of the flat-rate remuneration of currently 2 406 S with that of 2001 was reduced to the starting position – and this is now very important – before the in-force step of the Civil Service Law Novelle 2000. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]] The further fear of the Signatories of the citizens' initiative in connection with the long waiting periods until the use of civil servants was removed by this novel. This amendment also eliminates the fear that civil servants will no longer or will not be able to maintain the full support of various social institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Final and very important: The entire need for civil servants requested by the legal authorities is currently fully covered. In February alone, Mrs Haidlmayr, 2 908 civilians were assigned. Summary: With this Civil Service Law Novelle 2001 a comprehensive and fair reform of civil service was carried out.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13513	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13534	Mr President. High house! Such a collective report gives us the opportunity to look back on some of the citizens' initiatives and petitions we have dealt with or assigned in the Committee last October, but also in the January of this year. It is always a special task for elected representatives to deal with the concerns of groups of people who are addressed to Parliament through direct democracy. One can see, if one considers this report more precisely how different the materials that have been discussed in the last half of the year are. That is enough to mention just a few examples, from the desired extension of the period of validity of short-park zones in Vienna – which will be discussed by colleague Burket – to the necessary construction of noise protection walls on the Inntal motorway in two Erler parts of the city – already mentioned by colleague Haller, up to the citizens' initiative for maintaining and expanding the high quality standards of Austrian schools. I would like to comment on two citizens' initiatives, which have been taken note of by the Committee. This is the mentioned citizens' initiative on the preservation and extension of the high quality standards of schools – the defence of party-politically motivated changes in school laws and service rights. As a representative of a party that for decades has not only condemned the proportion in schools, but has also fought the party book economy energetically, I would like to say that we have the greatest interest in real objectivity and a reduction in party political influence. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What are you doing? Blue felt!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Blue felt!]] Mrs Colleague, I understand that you do not comply with these objectiveive efforts and do not agree with them. In our opinion, political party politics and political polemics, ladies and gentlemen, have not lost anything in class. Knowledge transfer is still in the foreground so that our youth can survive in international competition. This is also reflected in an opinion of the Federal Ministry for Public Performance and Sport, which also points to the need to change the system among teachers. The second citizens' initiative, which I would like to address briefly, is a liberal initiative which has the title: "No to destroy fundamental and human rights". This citizens' initiative of the Young Liberals implies that basic human rights in Austria would be violated by the noise attack and by the raid. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, it must be pointed out that the legal basis for these necessary measures to combat crime under the leadership of a socialist Minister of the Interior and also of a Social Democratic Federal Chancellor have been adopted. I believe that there can be no doubt about the need to fight effectively against an increasingly organised crime today. However, we were surprised by the behaviour of the Social Democrats in the Committee. The SPÖ has distanced itself from a law signed by Schlögl and climate. This alone shows us, however, how far social democracy has slipped into the left-left spectrum. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] However, the government parties – and there is no doubt about that – will neither worsen nor displace effective laws. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13611	The next speaker is Mr Rada. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13632	Mr President. High house! It is already significant – and we have already debated the field of education today – that citizens' initiatives have to deal with educational issues, where this new federal government is supposed to do everything for education. However, I would like to give the right to Members Gatterer before saying that the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has become a very important committee, and I would also like to remind them that, on the basis of the Citizens' Initiative No. 6 in the teaching committee, it was able to decide on a four-party application, which also has the content of setting up pupils' counsellors at vocational schools. We will deal with this issue tomorrow in plenary. However, I would like to say that, for many years now, this student advisory work has been carried out at vocational schools, let us say very salopp, out of the need for voluntary and free work by the vocational school teachers, and for this they are also grateful to them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to speak today with the Citizens' Initiative No. 7 to help maintain and develop the high quality standards of schools. If we have been described by my previous speaker as more or less nonexistent, I would like to put a few things in the right direction. We have been given a financial compensation from this Federal Government through the countries, which will be very likely to intervene in schools and in education. We have already heard today that hundreds of thousands of posts in the field of general compulsory schools will no longer be available until 2004. And this is a reduction in education, which is a loss of quality! I can only remind you: We will have problems in the area of integration. We already have problems in the field of foreign language initiative. Native speakers will be less and less there, in part they are already paid by the parent associations. One has to imagine what this means for a public school if private initiatives already have to pay what is actually the most normal and logical in the world, namely the best education for our children! We have problems in the area of language promotion. We have problems in the area of the Legathenics, and we have the biggest problem in the field of promotion education with the highly appreciated early warning system. If all of this together does not represent a reduction in education, if all this together does not mean a loss of quality, I do not know how to call it otherwise. I am all the more surprised that, for the first time in the history of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, this request was not forwarded to the Committee on Education, but was simply put to a majority vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13686	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13708	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Wurm is already on the Citizens' Initiative No. 7 which asked Mr Maximilian Jäger to maintain and extend the high quality standards of schools, in particular the defence of Party politically motivated changes in school laws and the right to serve. It particularly points out that the Party policy instrumentalisation of schools is deeply opposed. The High House should work to ensure that it does not come to this. I assume that this is a citizens' initiative already introduced during the summer, that it is calling for a time of SPÖ government, a time when party political influence in schools was going and was going on. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Irritum! Irresistence!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] We are in the best way, through school reform, through the measures of this Federal Government, to push this party-political influence out of schools. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to address two citizens' initiatives which have not yet been mentioned, on the one hand, on the citizens' initiative No. 3 which refers to abortion. There is a priest in peace, Mr Johann Grüner, who is concerned about the current situation of abortion. He writes that the citizens were given the impression by the previous legislation that the punishment-free murder of the children in the womb was no crime, no murder, nothing bad – such is what he underlies. And I am particularly pleased that all parties to the Committee on Petitions felt that a further negotiation should be stopped. I am very glad because I believe that the existing deadline solution should not be overturned. I do not think it is necessary to reform it either. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ and Abg. May. Kogler.]] But we have seen the reactions when Mr Bundesminister Haupt referred to the Eugenic indication, if one dares to question only once if there is no need to protect disabled lives, because an abortion of disabled lives is permitted by law until the time of birth. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Never practice! You know better than we do.]] If all the organisations of the disabled have given the Minister of State a praise for the fact that he has addressed this issue, I believe that this was an important initiative, and it should also be discussed further. [[Complementary of the Abg. Burket.]] The second citizens' initiative, which I would like to address, is a bit absurd, namely the Citizens' Initiative No. 9, introduced by Mary Luise Prean, concerning mission work "Life in Jesus Christ". This citizens' initiative calls for money to be recovered, legislative measures to achieve a tax-law public utility; the gift tax is to be abolished in respect of this association. The aim of this association, which is called a missionary work, is to bring back faithless people, and therefore to create fiscal, financial reliefs for this association. In this case too, the Committee on Petitions has recommended a derogation from the further negotiation. I believe that this is a very reasonable way of dealing with such issues, but I assume that we will continue to be very firm and intensive in the future with the concerns of the citizens, because it is highly appreciated if someone collects signatures, starts initiatives, raises concerns about the House with which we have to deal.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13790	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13811	Mr President. High house! I would like to comment on some of the citizens' initiatives of today's collective report dealing with youth and education. It is amazing that there are several who address this issue. It is about the quality of education, but also about the school climate, and thus again about the quality of learning. As you certainly know, real and good learning can only take place in a relaxed and fear-free atmosphere and group. A group must, of course, be manageable and manageable from the number. This is no longer possible in the event of excesses of the maximum number of students, i.e. in the case of too large groups. Group dynamic processes can no longer be controlled, and professional, personal care is then a thing of impossibility. [[Abg. Böhacker: I don’t believe that!]] You don't believe that? All right, then go to a school. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Böhacker.]] In this sense, the Citizens' Initiative No. 7 signed by more than 600 citizens. It is the concern about our education that is being pushed in a wrong direction. We still have a well-functioning school life, but it's been very powerful in the bale since this "regeving new." People are insecure, but slowly realize that behind these smooth advertising statements and behind keywords such as "zero deficit" or "fevering" or "structural adjustment" – even "rearing" is such a modern advertising statement – hide fatal differences for our country. Unfortunately, this Citizens' Initiative No. 7 not forwarded to the Teaching Committee. Also in the Citizens' Initiative No. 6 is about youth. The activities of the student consultants in the field of vocational school should be laid down by law. I think the student consultants are among those who are the first to be faced with the problems of young people, and, Mrs. Gatterer, I am not your opinion, even the young people in the federal states have great problems and need this care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that legal certainty, as required by this citizens' initiative, can at most be a basis for more general recognition and for greater value in this area. But tomorrow we will debate it in detail. The Citizen Initiative No. 5 concerns youth. It is strange that although the current government has a lot of money at its disposal for young children, there is hardly anything left for young people. Youths – that is clear – are critical and questioning. That would also be the goal of every education. But that does not seem to be what the current government wants. Therefore, young adults prefer to be neglected, rather punished – such educational councils have been introduced – instead of supported, or put under pressure, including by financial burdens. Think of the students or of the civil servants as well! Many of them are driven by the new measures of the government to the brink of their existence. You remember: 47 S per day of life is not a feast. Instead of helping solve social cases, civil servants are turned into social cases. – That is the letter of the citizens’ initiative. Obviously they do not fit into the social image of the new government. The socialization of young men seems to have taken place in a different environment than in the field of care and care. This place has already been assigned by the "new rulers" to women, exclusively and alone. Obviously, men are dealing with something else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But the fact that this could also change something social policy, that the young men could have an interesting experience in working in the social field, and that this could perhaps create a new understanding for different groups, which could be a positive result. But that's not your goal, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups – unfortunately, I have to say. I can only support these initiatives and would ask you to do the same. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13868	The next speaker is Mrs Burket. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13889	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I stand here and represent the interests of a not so small group of people who hope in this petition No. 6 and those with us in the 8th century. Districts have the biggest problems with the Parkpickerl. Locked shops, access to the large markets on the outskirts, professionals coming from work in the evening and desperately turning their rounds and not finding a parking lot – the daily situation in Josefstadt, but certainly symptomatic also for the other inner districts. What makes the Josefstadt even more difficult is the fact that to a small extent the Josefstadt also brings its popularity from the fact that there is a local scene here that attracts a large number of visitors every day. These visitors travel early and place short parking tickets behind the windshield. The short-term season runs out at 7 pm, and if the visitors go home at 22 or 24 o'clock, there are the parking spaces that people are desperately looking for between 17 and 6 o'clock. The situation is unbearable and, in fact, unacceptable. The district dwellers pay for a park pickerl and do not receive any concrete counter-performance for it. The rightful desire of the district dwellers to extend short-term parking periods has long been a duty of freedom and now also a requirement of a citizens' initiative under 500 signatures. District for which I was allowed to present this petition. For more than eight years, there has been a Commission called "Parking Management Commission" which has not yet given rise to anything. Of course, parking management is a Vienna issue, and of course it is difficult to amend a regulation. But doing nothing is a little too little. The parking situation in the district is disastrous. The city does nothing, and it is therefore an understandable step that people turn to Parliament in their despair. It is hoped that there will be a change in the law, the creation of the possibility, the concept of the derogation in accordance with § 45 para. 4 to change so that without breaching the principle of equality, consideration can be given to the actual traffic situation and parking needs of the residents. In some cases, economic operators have succeeded in maintaining a park pickerl with respect to derogations. However, many still fight for it. This situation that threatens existence must really be thought in the face of the locked-up business. It can't be as difficult to treat every company's headquarters in a district as a headquarters and at least to exhibit a park pickerl upon request. The difficulties that the tradesmen are making here, and the experiences that the tradesmen at the magistrate had already had when they tried to get the business-necessary pickerl for their company cars, would fill a carnival newspaper if it were not so sad. I believe that if the citizen is so central to all our interest and if you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, have declared yourself today, no matter where you come from, as Vienna, it should also be possible to find solutions to this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13940	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e13962	Mr President. High house! It has already been mentioned by several speakers that the climate in the Committee on Petitions is very constructive, that of the Committee on Petitions by Mr Maga. Worm is prudently guided. I also know from colleague Haidlmayr that she is of this opinion. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen: This work will only be positive if the concerns are also taken seriously. But this also means that the government parties here bear an increased responsibility – believe me, I know that from earlier years when we were in the government – because if only what the government has approved here or what we could do according to a letter from the government or the ministries, then the citizen or the citizen would not have had to turn to Parliament, then they could only write and have heard the government. That is to say, citizens put a higher level of expectation in Parliament as far as the proximity to their concerns is concerned. This Parliament usually also fulfils this, and in this context I can really appeal to all of my colleagues, even though the government's response is not satisfactory, to remain firm and firm in order to pursue this course as well. Mr Kurzmann, with the citizens' initiative No. 8 busy, with the young liberals. The subject is worth looking a little more closely, Mr Kurzmann, because you make it easy when you say the young liberals and the left-wings in the SPÖ, the social democrats have the same opinion here. First of all, I wonder what your image of the political spectrum is like, that for you left-lefts and liberals are somehow at the same corner. At least this is not comprehensible in political terms. But what is it about? What did they want? . I would like to read to you once again, ladies and gentlemen. For example, they wanted: no to routine Stapo surveillance, no to racist methods of age fixing, no to push children and young people, no to rapid deportation methods of asylum seekers. – You can’t just go there, colleague Kurzmann, and say these are all left-left demands. That must be the demands that the entire Parliament can represent! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] - You're right, colleague Kiss. Then there are three other points that concern the No to noise attack and grid arrest, to comprehensive telephone surveillance and to advanced risk research. Two of these points, Mr Kurzmann's right, have been introduced under the Social Democratic Government, with very strict legal conditions. But you can't just throw all the other points into a pot and say that doesn't interest us anymore! – This was our criticism in the committee that we should look at exactly what this is about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Much has already been said about education. I can only correct colleagues Pumberger in one: They meant that Maximilian Jäger had already brought this up a long time ago, and that is why it will probably have been a call for the former Social Democratic government. I know Mr Maximilian Jäger very well, he is a very dedicated parent, and he - you should have read the paper exactly - carried out in his letter, which disturbs him and the signers: There were the statements of your old partyman with the "parasitic elements" in school, and there was a statement from your current clubman Westenthaler. – These things bothered him, and he called this a party-political attempt of influence. Therefore, in his letter he also requested or suggested that these two be present at the Committee on Petitions. So don't twist the facts here just the way it suits you, but take note: This petition is against the party-political influence of this Federal Government from FPÖ and ÖVP. Finally, let me make one more proposal to make a consideration. Parliament, Parliament's Directorate has done a lot to meet the citizens' initiatives. It has now been set on the homepage its own link, you find it easier to find the information about what to do. There are parliaments – one that I have been able to visit with colleagues Amon and Saviour – which have also set up their own offices for citizens' initiatives, where people can actually go with their concerns and where there is also a device available to Parliament which accepts these concerns and which creates better contacts between Parliamentary administration, parliamentarians and citizens in this area. Such a citizens' office would certainly also be an idea for our Parliament, for our House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will have to expect more petitions and citizens' initiatives in the near future, and that is to be said. I have here a list of the Tyrolean Chamber of Workers, for example, those trains that will no longer be included in the next timetable – four pages only for the federal state of Tyrol! There are massive complaints about postal delivery, about the reduction of these benefits of the State. There are massive complaints about what the bus lines are about, there are government plans to block financial offices, there are government plans to block district courts. This is a comprehensive reduction, a comprehensive withdrawal of citizens' benefits, the benefits of civil administration. It is therefore to be expected that if you continue in this style, we will still have a lot to do with citizens' initiatives, which rightly oppose what this government of FPÖ and ÖVP refers to the citizens. On this subject there is a quote from the "Tyrol daily" of 16. March. Frank Staud writes in the economic section: "Since black and blue on the row, what keeps this stuff is centralized." And: "... from the Federalism Party of ÖVP one would have expected it to rely on decentralized structures... Now the opposite happens." They will reduce citizens' benefits, and the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives will have a lot to do. I hope that cooperation will work so well even if it is a matter of taking a clear stand against these measures to combat this deterioration of services for citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e14049	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e14070	Mr President. High house! Petitions are an important and effective means of direct democracy for the citizens of our country. This instrument ensures that problems with punctual, regional effects, which are however of over-regional importance, can also be debated unfiltered in this House. In the last Committee on Petitions, among other things, Mrs Haller has introduced a petition to combat the traffic noise caused by the Inntal motorway. We agree with you, Mrs Haller: Noise is an environmental theme, but not only in Tyrol, but throughout Austria. I recommend you, Mrs Haller, first to take your party friend, Mrs Verkehrsminister Forstinger's nose. [[Abg. Achatz: "On the nose"?]] The reason why I can give you the warmest heart is that we in Lower Austria, and here in St. Pölten in particular, have recognized that in terms of noise protection, the woman ministers tend to make full-bodied promises, but does not keep them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One of the people most affected by the noise of traffic in the country of Lower Austria – Mr Wattaul, if you do not recognize it as a low-Austrian, then I am sorry – is that the drivers of the West motorway also count, because the West motorway has a very high traffic frequency undisputed. Especially the inhabitants of the settlements in the south of St. Pölten are really moaning under these noises for a long time. That is why we have also introduced a petition on noise protection at A 1 in the city area of St. Pölten. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! During the tough negotiations for appropriate noise protection in freight transit through the south of St. Pölten, it has succeeded in establishing a joint plan for the railway noise and motorway noise of the A1 to protect the inhabitants of the southern districts of St. Pölten – in particular I call Harland, Spratzern and Stattersdorf – from the really unreasonable noise pollution. However, since the construction and completion of St. Pölten freight passenger transport and the extension of the West motorway will not last but not least due to the behaviour of former Minister Schmid and his successor Forstinger – in the matter of freight transit in particular – will probably take a long time, I call for together with the representatives of the capital of St. Pölten – and here there is a unanimous resolution of the municipal council of the capital of St. Pölten – an introduction of the speed limit of 100 kilometres per hour for passenger cars and 70 kilometres per hour for trucks in the relevant section. Anrainers have found that, in the case of congestion or reduced speed by construction sites in the section concerned, noise pollution decreases to some extent tolerable. This would, ladies and gentlemen, be a cheap but immediately effective measure until sustainable noise protection measures are implemented. In reply to a parliamentary question, which I have also addressed to the Minister in this matter, she herself rejects this cost-effective measure. The permanent noise protection measures make Mrs. Forstinger dependent on whether and when the freight transport of St. Pöltens is finished, whose construction she has stopped herself. Similarly, the implementation of the noise protection measures that are urgently needed for the St. Pöltner main station is currently in the air, because the Minister has already deleted the existing funding here. The anrainers north-west of the St. Pölten Central Station are affected by the railway operation of the ÖBB on the West Railway, the also at the heavily loaded railway line in Austria, day and night by heavy noise. In particular during the night hours, ladies and gentlemen, noise emissions exceed by far the permissible level as demonstrated by measurements. In addition to the fact that the population is still exposed to undue noise pollution, the fact, Mr Wattaul, that the money, which has already been available for useful measures in the area of St. Pölten, is now used to build the 3.5 billion-billion-shilling hole in the Carinthian mountains – and this, although the ÖBBB has already said that this is a national economic humbug. [[Abg. Wattaul: If you don't have a plan!]] [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Wattaul: This is stupid!]] [[Abg. Wattaul: This is stupid!]] It just doesn't seem to worry about the "simple party member" in Carinthia and not to bother at all. The "simple party member" seems to be much less disturbing that residents of all other federal states have to suffer. [[Call the SPÖ:Leider!]] He probably thought: If people take a bit of tunnel construction in Carinthia, I want to be called a Partik-Pablé!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e14189	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 444 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-27-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00061_d7e14226	I am still announcing the introduction of Amendment 412/A at today's meeting. Questions 2194/J to 2221/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 28. March 2001, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
