ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e3916	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats. I'll open the 87. National Council meeting for today, Wednesday, 12. ==References====External links== I announce that the official protocols of the 83. Meeting of 21 March 1991 ==References== ==References====External links== Meeting of 22. ==References====External links== Meeting of 23. They are considered approved by the Parliamentary Directorate in November 2001. For today's meeting as prevented, Members of the Nuremberg, Mag, are reported. Mainoni, Lexer and Dr. Van der Bellen. Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to rise from the seats. [[All present rise from their places.]] Griefing
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e3960	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You know that the long-standing President of the National Council, Anton Benya, was on 5 May. ==References== We will hold a commemorative event tomorrow at 9.30 a.m., to which you are all invited. Today, at our first meeting after President Benya's death, I can ask you for a minute's commemoration. [[All in attendance spend some time in stupid mourning.]] – Thank you many times. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e3993	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Günther Puttinger has not given up his mandate and that Mr Peter Haubner has been appointed to the National Council in his place. As the President-in-Office of the Council has been elected to Parliament and Mr Peter Haubnerhier is present in the House, I shall immediately make his fishing observation. As a writer, Mrs Haller is asked to read the vow formula. The new representative will then have to do his fishing with the words "I vow". I may ask Mrs Schreiber to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4035	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4051	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4066	I very much welcome the new colleagues in our midst. (The sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Announcement of a declaration by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4087	In two letters, the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor informed me of their intention to make statements in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the "Success Model Austria – Location Improvement and Economic Recovery". I will make these statements to the head of the agenda of today's meeting and give the floor first to Mr Bundeskanzler and then to Mrs Vice-Chancellor within the meaning of § 19 GOG. I also announce that I have the desire – which is sufficiently supported – to hold a debate on these statements. – There is no objection. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4115	In order to be able to negotiate items 14 and 15 of today's agenda, it is necessary to withdraw from the 24-hour run-off period with two-thirds majority. Points 14 and 15 are reports by the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template 766 of the Supplements, which is the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child concerning the Participation of Children in Armed Conflicts and the Declaration of the Republic of Austria, and on the Government Template 801 of the Supplements: Amendment to Article 43(2) of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the Conference of the Contracting States on 12 December ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a departure from the time-limit for a sign in this regard. – This is accepted with the required two-thirds majority because unanimously. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4145	I can still say that Mrs. Foreign Minister Dr. Ferrero-Waldner is in Brussels today and has informed me – I have forwarded this to all political groups – that she will be represented by a State Secretary during this debate. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4166	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 GOG to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4508	Before the entry into the agenda, Mrs Glawischnig asked for the self-employed amendment No 566/A (E) tabled at the same time by Mrs Glawischnig regarding an Austrian initiative for nuclear exodus in Europe to be dealt with urgently at the EU summit in Laeken. For the purposes of the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, which you all know, this urgent request will be made at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2859/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4532	Before receiving the item on the agenda, I should also like to say that I have a request based on § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a brief debate on Question No 2859/AB on Question No 2856/J by Mr Mag. Sima on BSE measures in Austria by the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry. As it has just been decided for today that a urgent request will be negotiated, the short debate will be held after the debate on the urgent request has been concluded. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4559	I have the proposal to sum up points 4 to 9, 10 to 13, 14 and 15 and 16 to 19 on today's agenda. Is there any objection? – This is not the case; we will therefore proceed in this way. We're going into the agenda now. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4590	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates as follows: A day block time of 10 "Vienna hours" has been proposed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 195 minutes, Free and ÖVP per 145 minutes, Green 115 minutes. In view of the intention of Austrian broadcasting to broadcast the debate live by 1 p.m., there is also agreement on the following Rules of Procedure for this time: First, the Federal Chancellor's statement, for which 15 minutes are planned, follows a statement by Mrs Vice-Chancellor, also at 15 minutes, then one word for each political group with 15 minutes; one word for each group with 10 minutes, one for each group, one for each with 10 minutes for each group, and one for the government side with a maximum of four times 5 minutes, and one for the five minutes for each speaker, with the agreement that, if a slightly longer speaking time is available, the President will share this speaking time. It was also agreed that at this stage of the debate, no more than one actual correction was made. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. I wonder if there are any objections to this proposal. - That's not the case. So this has been adopted unanimously. 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 GoG on the subject: "Success model Austria – Location improvement and economic recovery"
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4641	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. These are the statements made by Mr Bundeskanzler and Mrs Vice-Chancellor. I now ask the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to make his statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4665	Mr President. High house! Allow me to express our respect and gratitude to Anton Benya from this point of view. He is one of the great personalities who have built up Austria, an example of living social partnership, a man whom I have also met personally, who has negotiated hard, but at which word one could also rely in difficult times. On behalf of the Federal Government, I would like to express our respect and our recognition for this great Austrian. [[General condolences.]] Today we deal with the issue of economy, the economic situation, the economic situation at the turn of the year 2001/2002. It may also be very interesting to look back at how a year ago – at the turn to the new Millennium – the starting point was. At that time, the outlook was almost unmistakable: The economic sky was radiant and without clouds, the stock market seemed to have unlimited expansion possibilities worldwide, the New Technology, the New Economy was still booming. Everything seemed possible. A few months earlier, at the Lisbon Summit, the European Union had set itself the very ambitious and ambitious goals of being the fastest growing economic area in the world and setting out those key points where the other "global players" must be oriented. Today, a much more realistic picture is available: Much of what seemed to be achieved at the time has gone a long way. – The American economy has considerable problems, but also the European economy and therefore also the Austrian economy is no longer growing, it is stagnating. In between, the crash of expectations overrun is: The expectations regarding new technology and the stock exchanges for new technologies have fallen significantly. The American economy has the well-known problems, the oil price has increased significantly and has left significant economic signs throughout the world, and also the 11. Of course, September had a clear atmospheric, psychological, but also real meaning for the world economy. Austria has maintained itself well in this very difficult ambience, but we, of course, could not completely decouple ourselves: A small economy, which has to generate half of its national income in international competition, cannot completely free itself from international dependence and interdependence. But we kept ourselves surprisingly good. Compared to the larger Federal Republic of Germany, we have higher growth and much better employment data. – Ladies and gentlemen, we can be proud of this together! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Intelligent economic policy – of course there is, and you have to do it – today says: Structural policy. – This was what an economic researcher told us a few days ago at the Federal Government Economic Summit, and I can only agree with it. It is totally missing to believe that small economies can move the economy alone with billions of expenditure. But what can be done in Europe and Austria is to put in place structural policies in such a way that a crisis can be stepped up. Many economic researchers believe that Europe has not done its homework this year. We have not implemented all the Lisbon decisions we have made. The examples will be taken this weekend at the EU summit in Laeken: There is still no European patent, there is still no common strategy for liberalising the energy markets, there is still the single sky, the common European sky, and there are many irrational attitudes towards new research results and technologies. I believe that Europe must take up this structural impulse so that we can succeed in the world economy. We Austrians have done our homework well during this time: We have conducted structural policy this year. We have set the course in such a way that we can leave this difficult situation in a better condition. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is a common merit of this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What makes a company in a difficult situation? – It looks at where its strengths and where its weaknesses lie. The recipe is very simple: Strengthen strengths and improve weaknesses. . We have already done a lot in this respect this year and we would like to give you a few reasons for taking action with the current economic programme. One of the strengths of the Austrian economy is our first-class education system. It is a coincidence – but a beautiful coincidence – that comes to our aid in the objective debate on the Austrian education system that the OECD has now published its statistics, its ranking, in which Austria competes with 35 countries: At least 250 000 15-year-olds have been studied all over the world; 5,000 Austrian students have participated. As the only country, we had a 100% return rate, and some very interesting findings occur: Austria spends the most money on its students from all countries, contrary to the opposition's unacknowledged calls. This is a well-designed per capita investment, an investment in our own future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As regards language talent and language learning, Austria is clearly at the top of all German-speaking countries. We are the number two in Europe after the Finns, and we also belong to the top group worldwide. The same is true of mathematics and natural sciences. I therefore believe that at this point there is a thank you to those teachers who train our students so first-class, but also to the Austrian parents who do not care about how their children learn. We apparently take education and training more seriously than others – and that is a great advantage for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A second great advantage is the strength of small and medium-sized enterprises, their productivity and their inventiveness, which secures us tax revenue, but above all competitive advantages and jobs. We must strengthen this, and we have done some very concrete things. Above all, our geographical situation through integration in Central Europe is also a decisive advantage: In our neighbouring countries, the enlargement candidates, there was an average economic growth of 3 to 4 percent this year, more than in other Western European countries. Because the Austrians really took advantage of this possible advantage, this geographical advantage, we also benefit from it. Therefore: Yes to enlargement! Yes to the perception of these opportunities that we have on the basis of our geographical situation! Ladies and gentlemen! If you do it properly, it is a huge advantage for Europe as a whole, but especially for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But we also have weaknesses. It's important to say that on a day like today. We still have an overwhelming demo, bureaucracy. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That was a joyous promiseer par excellence!]] We have too much administration, and it is therefore crucial that we have made the administrative reform one of the most important issues of Austrian internal policy at this time – under the leadership of Mrs Vice-Chancellor. It is therefore crucial to eliminate and improve these weaknesses. Weaknesses also exist in the area of infrastructure, which is also plainly expressed, because in recent years and decades too little investment has been made in rail and road. We want to change that dramatically – I will then give you some specific figures. There are also some real barriers to company access. We still have a trade order, which is not modern enough, some structural regulations on the labour market are overregulations as regards mediation, and even in the period of procedure for large projects, just as in the pension system or in the management of social security, there is a need for reform which we have already addressed. We must certainly continue to work on this. This clear analysis helps us to present to you today a programme that makes sense and will be effective: a modern, intelligent economic programme for jobs, for the economic location and for social welfare. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The outlook for 2002, when implemented, can be quite optimistic. It helps us the world economy: The Americans make about 60 billion dollars of purchasing power impulses flow into their economy, once again so much into reconstruction and military action – that is certainly not our topic, but it will also have a positive effect on the economy. The oil price drop from 27 US dollars to 20 US dollars, of course, helps to stimulate the economy worldwide. With regard to interest rates: the American Fed is now below 2%, the European Central Bank has dropped from almost 4 percent to 3 1⁄4 percent. All this will help – and in addition, the Austrian measures of the social partners with a very reasonable wage round, the government's measures with an improvement of purchasing power for pensioners of over 6 billion schilling and the child money with 9 billion schilling. As far as the economy is concerned, we can therefore go very optimistically to the year 2002. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Strengthen strengths and improve weaknesses!, this is our programme: Strengthen strengths, for example, in the field of education and research. We will allow an additional 7 billion Schilling to be channelled into the research programmes. It is essential that this amount is made available and that there is planning security for researchers, businesses and universities. We will make some spectacular improvements in the field of education, which we will propose to you today, such as a research exemption, which already exists today at 25 percent and plus 10 percent according to a narrow research concept. Those who choose the further research concept receive 10 percent or a direct premium of 3 percent, which mainly helps small businesses. This is an essential impetus for the research expenditure of the future! For education, we increase the amount of the allowance from 9 percent to 20 percent. I do not believe that another country in the world is currently giving such an impetus to lifelong learning as the Austrian Federal Government has with this programme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Strengthening strength also helps small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the area of venture capital. In the matter of the secondary rights of a modern industrial order and the better placement of workers, we must open up. It cannot be our ambition to manage unemployment. With the exception of two or three countries, which are either equally good or a little better than we are, we are still far better than all other European countries. We are, for example, at the level of the unemployment rate of 1999, but we want to get better – and this is only through the removal of barriers, through better mediation, through skills and training for the unemployed. We must remove the weaknesses, and there are some things that are open to us, for example in the area of infrastructure: In the building we make an improvement by favouring Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft projects. 17 projects are preferred. The volume in 2002 is 2.7 billion schilling in addition. This helps the building. In addition, a qualification fund for unemployed construction workers is provided to transfer them to other sectors or industries, in particular through additional qualifications, and to help them change. The federal states provide 4 billion schilling to give a massive boost to the achievement of the Kyoto targets, in particular through energy saving measures, energy policy measures, thermal insulation and so on. For the protection of the monument, we will create a kind of "National Heritage", a national foundation that will be better used in the context of the monument protection; the funds will be significantly increased. This is a very important impulse both for the beauty of our country and for the construction of the building. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The improvement in infrastructure will be particularly spectacular. I already know that SPÖ has expressed massive wishes and criticisms in this area. Let me give you a few interesting figures in advance: In 1995 – under a socialist transport minister and a socialist finance minister – the sum of investments in rail and road – was budgetary and extra-budgetary! – 21 billion schilling. It increased slowly to 29 billion schilling in 1999. In total, some 120 billion schillings have been invested in construction in these five years. This federal government already made 29.5 billion schilling available in the first year – starting from the year 2000 – and now we raise this to 38 billion schilling. Therefore, over the next five years, for which we hope to have the voter's approval, we will install a total of 175 billion schilling, a plus of 43 billion schilling. This is one of the most important investments in our future, in our infrastructure! Ladies and gentlemen! Follow us on this path! We have more business settlements than ever before, in the last two years more than in the founding years since 1993, both in the number of businesses and, above all, in sales and investments – 13 billion! Go along on this way! It is a wise path in the sense of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4796	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). They are also provided for 15 minutes for their explanation. - Please, Mrs. Vice chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e4817	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the situation of the Austrian economy is concerned, in the last days and weeks there has been an almost unprecedented word acrobatics, from the "total disaster", from the "fall into the crisis" – an example from you, Mr. Oellinger – to the presentation that everything was fine, the range of words reached. [[Abg. Oils: Right!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: "Stagnation at a High Level"!]] I believe that realism is advocating realism in terms of the situation and also the perception of the facts as to how Austria is in international comparison. If you look at this international comparison, the development of Austria compared with other countries in the world in the last one and a half years, you can say, I think, with fug and right, that Austria is still very good, especially better than in the past! We still have record employment in the face of rising unemployment, but especially with regard to long-term unemployment, one of the biggest problems in the past, there is a marked decline in unemployment. According to World Competitiveness Report, Austria is in terms of the competitiveness of the economy from place 15 to place 14 and is in the first place in terms of the motivation of its employees. This is an award especially for employees in Austria in all areas! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As far as the degree of freedom of the economy is concerned, Austria has moved from 25th place to 15th place last year, a clear sign, as I believe, that we are eliminating barriers, bureaucratic barriers to the economy and thus also allowing job creation and thus income and prosperity. In recent days, I have sometimes felt, especially in the case of words of the opposition, that you have right homesickness after the debts of earlier times. [[Cheerfulness among the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She's right!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Point exact!]] The recipes that have been mentioned here are, above all, the swelling of the economic miracle by making debts! And where this has brought us, ladies and gentlemen, especially about social democracy, we know: It has resulted in billions more of debt and thousands more unemployed in this country! Therefore, we do not want to go this way quite consciously! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So we will not continue with the recipes of the past, because debt cannot buy jobs or economic growth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] This shows, Mr President, the experience of the last 30 years. And this also shows the experience in the international field, because when we look at countries such as Japan or Germany or France, we see that these are much worse than Austria. One reason for this is that in these countries we have continued to rely on deficit-spending, i.e., on new debt-making rather than structural reforms. In our neighbouring country Germany with its red-green government, growth rates are significantly below the Austrian level – under a red-green government! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: God forbid!]] These are facts, ladies and gentlemen, about social democracy, which you must take note of. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Germany has particular difficulties in reducing the budget deficit or in meeting the requirements of the Stability Pact. It currently has the biggest deficit of all EU countries compared to GDP – a "success" of Red Green, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: God forbid!]] And there is also the old pattern, namely the call for archival concepts, after intervention by the state as a welcome excuse for lack of political enforceability. – But this is not our way, ladies and gentlemen! For us, the reorganisation of the budget is, the zero deficit is not a dogma, but the answer to the failures of the past. These past failures have brought us into a situation where we alone have to cover 100 billion schillings per year in interest payments. They will admit – everyone who controls the economic once and for all – that this is not a way to succeed. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This government has therefore undertaken from the outset to reform structurally. In the field of education, we have an investment increase of 7 billion schilling within three years, i.e. we invest more in education compared to 1997 – so that you have a comparison – because education means the future of this country and the future of the next generations. We have provided 7 billion Schilling with more investment in research and development. Of these, 70 percent are already granted, and this will also produce corresponding structural effects. We have provided 6.5 billion Schilling more for the infrastructure. We have recorded an increase in the purchasing power of 9 billion Schilling for the Austrian families, ladies and gentlemen. – This is the way we want to go – unlike your recipes! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But the decisive thing is that we also save ourselves. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] We save 21 billion schilling in public administration, 21 billion schilling in an area that you have bloated and taken as an occasion to tax the Austrian taxpayer more and more. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This you have never brought together.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! In the last 30 years in which you have been responsible, you have created an administration which is without an example in Europe, from cost intensity and also from cost and expenditure growth. [[Abg. Kiermaier: Forced retirement!]] There too we have a clear "stop!" ==References== [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I already know how you see this, because there are the great financial and budgetary leaders of social democracy, former finance ministers of this Republic, like Ferdinand Lacina, who said that the administrative reform is damaging the economy, because income is lost; the fewer savings, the less damage to Austria. – These are your recipes! What do you say? Does that mean that we have to spend more, increase taxes, and cash the money from the taxpayer that you are then surprised, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? – This is not our way! [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's something about next door!]] I can tell you that clearly and clearly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Therefore, it is important for us to invest in those areas with which we are investing at the same time in the future, as mentioned above, for example in education. A significant part of the economic package is therefore also the increase in the exemption rate for the education allowance from 9 to 20 percent and the creation of an educational premium with a premium rate of 6 percent. This is important, therefore, because the small and medium-sized enterprises in particular can benefit from it. [[Abg. Edler: Then talk to them! Lock them up!]] – Mr Colleague! The small and medium-sized enterprises in this country are those who create and secure our jobs, and that is why we need to strengthen them! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This Federal Government doubles the number of high school beginners. This is also a very important signal in skills, in the qualification of workers. By means of a start-up funding by the countries, there are already 14 900 students at the vocational colleges in the academic year 2001/2002. These are already 770 places more than planned in the development plan. The start-up funding programme thus leads to a doubling of the new beginner's courses to 1,200. This is investment in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, the central point, but the most important part of this economic package, is the labour market offensive. It was the Federal Government that already in 2000, after 30 years of in vain discussion, Mr. Col. von der SPÖ, developed the basis for equality between workers and employees, the creation of a single worker concept and a first important step to this end already in 2000. [[Abg. Schwemlein keeps the copy of a newspaper article up to date]] [[Objection to the SPÖ]] It will now take a second important step, Mr President. – The difference between you and us is: We're not just talking about it, we're doing it too! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is true that we are currently – and I am surprised that you have never really upset this in recent years, and that the trade union has obviously not been motivated to act – in certain sectors we have collective agreements that provide for extremely short notice periods, such as in the construction industry – a notice period for workers: one week – or even in the bakery competition with a day notice period! These are conditions in the labour market, ladies and gentlemen, which really are not acceptable and have to be changed to workers. [[Abg. Oillinger: How does this look in your ministry, in the ministerial offices?]] And we will do the same! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The banishment must change that!]] In addition, we will also raise the training allowance to the amount of childcare allowance, from 5 643 p. to 6 000 p., which is also an important measure relating to child benefit. And we will also review the rules on the availability of unemployment insurance. That means we want more advice and more mediation and, of course, no changes in the case of accidents at work or rehabilitation, in order to presuppose your regulations at the same time. We want better advice, better mediation and therefore also relief for private employment intermediaries, but also more pressure on job refusalrs, ladies and gentlemen! Of course! More pressure on those who do not want to work! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That's incredible!]] Of course, we will also try to address a problem that has also been pushed aside in recent years, namely the fight against undeclared work. [[Abg. Oillingers: In liberal establishments?- Oh, my God!]] What you have done in recent years has been to push back the control of blackwork ever further. And that's exactly the wrong way. Rather, it is important to create control instruments that can really effectively control the fight against undeclared work. We do not see how job destruction is done, so an efficient fight against illegal foreign employment is needed, something you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, have not accomplished for many years. [[Calls and appeals between Mr Leikam and Mr Mag. Trattner.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: The directing parties, you prevent the treatment of the law on black workers in the committee!]] A particularly important point in this package is also the qualification offensive for construction workers. Building workers are particularly affected by the current economic situation, so it is important for us to set up an initiative in this area and, according to the example of previous work foundations, to create opportunities for qualification, i.e. it will be possible to stay for up to twelve months in such a work foundation. The experience of the past has shown that in those cases where the work was professionally and well done, 80 percent of the people were assigned a job. This is our goal for the construction workers in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For small and medium-sized enterprises, it is of particular importance that we debureaucratise and support business start-ups, therefore an extension of the new foundation promotion law and also the extension of the application of this law to business succession. This is a major problem, especially in the field of commercial enterprises. We must allow business successions by creating exemptions from stamp fees, federal administrative charges, property tax, court fees for registration in the company's book and in the base book as well as company tax for successors. This is also an important initiative for Austria's economic location, with which we enable and do not hinder business start-ups. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For Austria's economic location, however, it is also of particular importance to reform corporate law, for example through a reform of secondary rights, which allows flexible and mobile activities of traders, even without the justification of multiple rights, which have often led to shocks in this area, and to explore this interplay of regulations, which is really needed in a modern knowledge and service society and which is superfluous. E-Government, i.e. a point of contact for commercial applications, i.e. no longer the authority marathon from one place to another, but commercial applications at one place, via the Internet, and due to the consequent withdrawal of the submission of documents also with a corresponding acceleration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] – I cannot believe that you have harassed entrepreneurs in this country for years, Mrs Colleague! We are trying to make business easier for businesses to make business possible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why we will also reorganise the sub-sectors. The restriction that in a part-sector no more than five workers may be employed is missing, as is the basic prohibition to employ apprentices in this area, because apprenticeship training, the training of our young people must be promoted and not hindered. [[Abg. Kiermaier: Yes, and who was the Minister of Economic Affairs at the time?]] [[Abg. Kiermaier: such a stump!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Also the abolition of the registration fee, what since 1. April this year is in force, is a major incentive for business start-up and thus also a step in the right direction. Finally, as we have generally ensured in the administrative reform that procedures are accelerated and shortened, we want to make it easier for entrepreneurs to have a single point of contact, and to reduce the duration of operating systems by setting a legal deadline of three months within which such procedures must be carried out. With regard to the infrastructure, I would like to add that it is not just about investment but also about doing something for small and medium-sized enterprises, by writing out small buildings, because, as I said, small and medium-sized enterprises are the basis of our economy and ensuring that we have safe jobs and a good future in that country. [[Abg. Edler:... lock...!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e5271	We are going into the debate. I call Mr Gusenbauer. There are also 15 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e5325	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It's amazing what Mrs. Vice-Chancellor told us this morning in the distortion of facts, for example when she told us what the experience of the last 30 years was. The experience of social-democratic economic policy was that any economic crisis in Austria was mastered better in terms of employment than in any other country of Europe! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There can be no doubt that there are different economic priorities, but there can be no doubt that employment policy is at the centre of Austrian economic policy. This question has only been raised since the Black and Blue Federal Government existed. What the Federal Chancellor and Mrs Vice-Chancellor have kept us secret is that unemployment data in Austria have become considerably worse compared to other European countries. While we used to have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, we have now been overtaken by some countries, not only from Luxembourg, but now also from the Netherlands, Ireland and even Portugal, and at best we are still in the European middle. This is the record of your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you do not focus on the question of employment development, but on the question of economic growth: Unfortunately, Austria is third in the European Union in terms of economic growth through its policy in 2001. All of us cannot be pleased, ladies and gentlemen, because this has cost Austrian employment and income, and you have the responsibility of ÖVP and FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! They point out that the causes of the economic difficulties are in the international crisis. It is now quite right that, because of the fact that in the USA, Japan, the new markets and now also in Europe, we have economic difficulties at the same time, we are internationally in an unheard-of difficult situation – as the volume will not help you, Mrs Colleague – but it must be said clearly as far as Austria is concerned: [[Abg. Weekly countries: Germany...!]] Fortunately, the export rate of Austrian companies remains the strongest growth factor! In other words, the international crisis has, fortunately, not yet hit Austria. [[Abg. Böhacker: Luckily there is no red-green in Austria!]] The decline in economic growth is therefore due to your economic policy in the country and not to the international economy, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] It's not surprising that it is! If exports continue to rise by 4.5 per cent, but there is only a 1.1 per cent economic growth – your economic policy is shocking, as you are quite right, Mr. Cot – then the question arises: [[Abg. Böhacker: Trembling, your ignorance!]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Böhacker: You have no idea!]] How could that happen? Despite good wage increases in 2000, despite good growth rates, Austrians' incomes are falling. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Have you not studied national economics?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The secret is easy to open: Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer speaks about it: on the one hand, on the one hand, tax increases and on the other – on the other, she could not have given a better description of her own policy with the highest tax and tax rate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since the result of your policy is that we have a 45.6 percent tax and tax rate, the highest in the entire history of our country, but most likely for this highest tax and tax rate, it is not surprising that economic growth breaks down on the basis of internal factors in Austria – and not on the basis of the international economic crisis! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government cannot shift responsibility to the international level, but must look for this responsibility in itself! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] How at all their dealings with economic collapse is quite strange. For months now, we have been pointing out to the government that there are economic problems, that economic growth is falling and unemployment is rising. For months, the government's response has been: Beautiful speeches – there is no crisis, there is no recession, there is no economic collapse! But that's how this has only been played in the propaganda books of the Federal Government, and unfortunately not in reality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, since this reality is no longer to be denied with 35 000 unemployed, one has now passed to the next stage, namely the so-called summit stage, where all possible luminosity activities are staged, with which to precipitate the fact that something is actually done against the economic crisis. But if today Mrs Vice-Chancellor comes up and says that one has finally to do something against black work, because this is a great danger, then I wonder, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, why your group has been preventing the establishment of a subcommittee for the treatment of a fixed and finished anti-black labour law for a year and a half. Where is this your attitude? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] For one and a half years to prevent everything and then to do in Parliament as if any great activities were taking place – ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, that is not credible! And it will not lead to the necessary economic impulses; as it does relatively little when things that have long been contained in the budget are repacked 27 times and presented as something new again and again. These bluffs, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ may impress you yourself, but the economy and the investment flows will not impress these Bluffs! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Philosophy is obviously: If unemployment rises, then the Vice-Chancellor begins a discussion on the rules of visibility. That means: It does not intend to fight unemployment but the unemployed in our country – and that is deeply inhuman! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Even in times of globalisation, offensive economic policy is possible. This not only shows the United States of America with a well-coordinated policy between the Federal Reserve Bank and the government there, this is also possible in Europe! This is possible in Europe if the European Central Bank continues to implement interest-rate reductions. This is possible if the European States come to a coordinated economic policy so that individual national impulses do not fade. And this is possible when national governments assume their responsibility for the economy and for employment. Only: Beautiful explanations are far too little, ladies and gentlemen of the government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The possibilities to do something are obvious. The possibilities are at the heart of what we Social Democrats have to say. Proposals have been made to you for weeks. First: They should not only have good words for small and medium-sized enterprises, but they should establish a stability fund that will help small and medium-sized enterprises over the economic crisis, especially if they are newly established and have good prospects for the future to prevent the bankruptcy that could destroy the economic structure in our country. – This would be an active policy for small and medium-sized enterprises! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, of course, an investment-free amount, especially in profit-making companies, would lead to the promotion of planned investments in order to take place now and to an expansion of the economy. – Unfortunately, nothing of this investment exemption can be found in the substance in your declarations. Thirdly, The incomes of Austrians create growth and jobs. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, would give back some of the money you have used to pay for small and medium-sized incomes, then this would not only be socially fair, but would also be good for the economy. – That is why we demand a social tax reform! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Fourthly, it's about the infrastructure. And it does not help the whole combination of multi-annual investment plans if, unfortunately, the Minister of Infrastructure cannot use her one-year report to report to us what she has built and what she has begun, but only includes the balance sheet of one year, which she has prevented, where she has objected and what she has delayed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With such a policy, no infrastructure offensive can be made in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger:... get from one!]] As far as research and development is concerned, we are already excited about how you, Federal Chancellor, will only have achieved the status of 1999 in the public expenditure on research and development in 2002 which will reach the announced 2.5 percent quota. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is not an offensive research policy, as the funds do not flow as they should in order to secure the future of our economy. There are only announcements, but little fulfillment! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as education is concerned, I think it is a good thing that the government is taking a decision to increase the number of high school places. That's a real step! [[Abg. Großruck: Thank you!]] And I also think it is right that companies are given better opportunities in terms of the decommissioning of educational expenditure. In fact, this is also a real step! [[Abg. Grandruck: But?]] Mr Bundeskanzler, however, it would also have been useful to replace this step by a third, namely to give workers the opportunity to learn independently by introducing the system of educational bonus and education in Austria proposed by the Social Democrats and supported by the economy. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: To sit down?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Großruck: And in 30 years not realized project!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know very well, ladies and gentlemen: If we want to keep up with the comparable states of Europe, 15 billion schillings per year are needed in terms of training and training expenditure, so that we can keep pace in particular in the field of continuing training. [[Abg. Weekly countries: With the red-green government in Germany!]] To mobilise this 15 billion schilling not only from the budget, but to reach a common effort – by its own responsibility, the economy and the budget – would be an intelligent method without making many debts to increase the level of education in our country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] If you were to include this proposal, Mr Bundeskanzler, in the education programme to strengthen the economy, then my satisfaction with the educational chapter would be much higher. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the whole, however, it should be noted that the entire anti-crisis package of the Federal Government is far beyond expectations..., far behind expectations, because the real impulses – measured in increased employment and measured in additional economic growth – will be extremely modest. [[Ironic cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Witchlands: The Freud has hit again!]] [[Further call-ins]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the measures you are taking will not lead to unemployment falling in winter, but will – quite the contrary! – I'm sorry to get up. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But not as high as yours!]] The measures you have put forward will not provide the necessary impetus for the construction industry, and therefore, unfortunately, one of the highest rates of unemployment in construction will have long been achieved, with the negative effects on the construction industry as well. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Since when?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The measures you are taking may contribute to the self-rest of your political groups, but they will not cause the Austrian economy to get the impetus it urgently needs for the future. Unfortunately, you have failed in this question too!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e5701	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Same speaking time of 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e5722	Mr President. High house! Before I address a question to Mr Gusenbauer, let me briefly point out the following: In a comment in the "Press" a few days ago, I criticized the ORF and wrote it, he needed a reform to the head and members, and, as an example, I have the "Time in Figure 2" of 29. November, in which everything went wrong for half an hour, which could go wrong. I was then massively criticized, especially by the editors concerned. You won't believe it, ladies and gentlemen: While Mrs. Vice-Chancellor spoke to us for 15 minutes today, everything was broken down, and her important speech was only a sentence acceptable in tone. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is unheard of! A scandal like that! Incredible!]] – A slug who thinks something bad about it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A scandal without equal!]] Mr Gusenbauer, I have listened carefully to you, and I would like to ask you a question: Which country did you actually talk about in your speech? – That can't have been Austria. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It was a virtual country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer, the country you described is not Austria but another country. [[Abg. Weekly countries:... Germany!]] I live in an Austria characterized by prosperity, the zeal of its citizens, the zeal of entrepreneurs, of excellent teachers, of excellent workers and of a good government! [[Abg. Eder: You have a wealth!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer! We don't let Austria get sick of you, and we won't let Austria do bad by you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] An independent journalist recently gave you a note in the "standard", ladies and gentlemen: "A not enough for the SPÖ." [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: And that in the "standard"!]] But she had not yet heard your speech today, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I do not just want to make statements here, but I would like to say the following: [[Abg. Oellinger: On the topic!]] In recent times, this has already been addressed, we have received two international qualifications, i.e. certificates, one from the Institute for Management Development in Lausanne in Switzerland. It turned out: Austria is one in the quality of life of all industrialized countries that have been examined. Austria is one in the availability of highly qualified workers of all the countries under study. Austria is in third place as far as productivity is concerned, and Austria is the tenth-richest country in the world. – Ladies and gentlemen! We can be proud of that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The study already mentioned by the OECD – also an international organization – the PISA study, has already assigned us – the Federal Chancellor has already said this – the first place in educational expenditure and a leading place for our students. I would also like to thank all the teachers on behalf of my group, including the Latin teachers, Mr Werner, and the school community committees, for great things have been done. [[in the direction of the Abg. Amon]] I thank them all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to say to Mr Gusenbauer: In Germany a big discussion has broken out, Katzenjammer, because we Austrians are much, much better. The question is: Why? Are the German children stupid or lazy? – No, but there socialist education policy has changed the proven differentiated school system in favour of an overall school, and these are the fruits! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] We are sure that we will receive our differentiated, appropriate, tailor-made school system, because we want top school students with top opportunities in life. The whole school won't be with us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] One more thing, Mr Gusenbauer: At the same time that you gave a speech yesterday and gave Austrian foreign policy with very little flattering epitheta ornantia, charming adverbs, Erhard Busek was appointed by the European Union two years after the sanctions you acclaimed and promoted by Chancellor climate against Austria to a leading position of the EU. He is the coordinator in the Balkans, where Austria has a great tradition and great experience. – A great recognition of our foreign policy that you criticize! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] While you were with the Sanctionaries while you were drinking with Mr Moscovici Champagne, while you refused the etiquette with our foreign policy, our diplomats and our foreign minister worked, and today we are stronger and better there than ever! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The economic report presented today by the Federal Government has a goal: safety for work and business and the extension and safeguarding of the Austrian success model. I believe that the measures we have heard are the right measures to secure our location. The new framework that this Federal Government has created has proved to be successful, and it remains. We will not make new debts, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] We will put in place structural measures that you have not put in place. You have spoken of the structural measures in the direction of Mrs Forstinger. Do you remember the "housemaster plan"? – That was the so-called master plan of the socialist transport minister One – a sheet of paper! – which could not even be consulted in committee. Our new Minister of Transport is working on an excellent concept. She has our full confidence. If they had been in this function much earlier, we would have built-up projects and investments that we could carry out, and would not have to resort to "housemaster plans". [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have a bundle of measures: 12.5 billion Schilling investments for the rail, for the road; 9 billion Schilling more for our families. I mean, these are things we can be proud of. We and this Federal Government rely on the competitiveness of our economy, and we have confidence in our entrepreneurs. We rely on the highly qualified workers, and we have confidence in the apprentice trainers, in the many economic operators, in the many teachers and also in the many skilled skilled workers and the skilled employees in our country. As we have said, we have confidence in our teachers and rely on education. We trust our public service, which creates an ever better environment for the quickest possible execution of construction and economic projects. We trust in the eco-social market economy, which has secured our country one place in terms of quality of life. That is why I am presenting today a motion for a resolution which has been distributed and which I would like to explain only in the key points. This is the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Khol, Mr Westenthal and others on location security and economic recovery. On the basis of the programme presented to us today by the Federal Chancellor and Mrs Vice-Chancellor, we ask the Federal Government to continue its offensive economic policy, taking into account the budget consolidation to ensure the economic location and jobs. We also call on the Federal Government to strengthen the offensives already launched in the fields of education, research, infrastructure and the export industry. We want to promote research and technology development, the education and training sector, the construction sector through new investment measures, a package of measures for small and medium-sized enterprises. We want to further increase exports, implement a labour market offensive through a number of measures, improve infrastructure and also implement a comprehensive administrative reform, for which you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, no longer have a smile – that was probably the embarrassment that you have brought nothing together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I have listened carefully today, Mr Gusenbauer, to know what your recipe would be to secure our economy, our location. But if the diagnosis is wrong because you have spoken of a country other than Austria, the therapy can be of no value either. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] And the therapy you suggested is the old zigzag course: On the one hand, tax reductions are required, but on the other hand subsidies are promised. On the one hand, you said a year and a half ago that our policy of not making debt is in itself an important goal, today you are talking about new debts on the other. Also international: zigzag. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, are at the moment the only group wishing to block the enlargement of the EU, which has not given up its blockade policy towards the Czech Republic, but has even strengthened it. Mr Gusenbauer! You will be tomorrow evening or afternoon, I take from the press to attend the Socialist Summit in front of the Laeken Summit. I wish you all the best – Mr Swoboda is also being read there, so you know what your international group thinks about your policy. I wish you luck. With us, the socialists – internationally – are constantly asking: What's the matter with your social democrats, what are they doing? - We explain it to them. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! They were on the wrong side of the sanctions – not on the side of Austria. You would now be left to blockers as far as foreign policy and EU enlargement are concerned. And this is where I owe my contribution to Mr Swoboda, the head of the Social Democrats in the European Parliament – a proven Social Democratic Party in Vienna. It was interesting, Mr Cap, as you confirmed last night in the report, what Mr Swoboda is asking you to do. They were also on their way to the security doctor in the zigzag course. If we had been able to negotiate longer, if you had not spoken a word of power, we would still negotiate with Caspar Einm, Peter Pilz, Michael Spindelegger and Wolfgang Jung and we would probably be even closer to consensus. – You are always on the wrong side, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have to tell you something, Mr Gusenbauer: You just filed a new election request. And in connection with this new election application, a journalist wrote in the 'Salzburger Nachrichten': "In its first two years of opposition, the SPÖ had already recorded a number of pans, and yesterday's new election was the largest. Without need, the sharpest weapon of the opposition was juxtaposed. What do you need for a successful new election application?", writes Alexander Purger in the "Salzburger Nachrichten". "First, a majority in the National Council – the SPÖ does not have." – Khol adds: She won't have a long time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] "Secondly a dramatic occasion – the SPÖ does not have." – Except for the dispute in their own ranks, we will not re-elect to get rid of your old loads. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That doesn't say Purger, but that's what Khol says. Purger continues: "Thirdly, a sophisticated counter-conception to government work" – "the SPÖ does not have. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They don't have that at all!]] Fourthly, the SPÖ does not have an attractive chancellor candidate and an attractive shade cabinet.", says Alexander Purger. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] "And fifthly, the prospect of being able to form a different government after the election – the SPÖ does not have the greens after all serious surveys." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! I can say: There is nothing to add to Alexander Purger's statement. This is shine and misery of the SPÖ of today. But our government and we have shown: We take the right measures at the right time. And we're going this way together unobtrusive. – Luckily on this government!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e6012	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Khol, Ing. Westenthaler and colleagues, who have been explained in his broad outlines, are negotiating. It will be distributed and then put to the vote. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e6316	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Speech time: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e6337	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor, Khol, has regretted the alleged or actual television pan that would have taken place during the current broadcast. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Has, not "hate"!]] I mean, it's a question of what these television broadcasts do all the time. I now diagnose a causal link between these television broadcasts and the Polish debate here in the house. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is that hurting you?]] Otherwise – Mr Khol, that is what we are actually with you – it is not clear to me that in a speech on economic policy you may use 2 minutes of speaking time for this subject in the 15 minutes and spend the rest of your time warming up your old calender. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am really unpleasantly surprised, and obviously red-white-red ties no longer protect against the vulnerability to beer tent polemics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Großruck: The majority is of a different opinion!]] But let's leave the church in the village, let's see what's going on, and we'll discuss together, colleague Khol, the subject that matters. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You have nothing to say about this?]] It is about the collapse of the economy, about the global collapse of the economy, and about possible measures at European level – I am expressing this, because this has not yet been mentioned at all or hardly mentioned – and about measures in Austria. What are the relevant questions? – The questions for Austrian economic policy are as follows: What about this recession – and I trust to put that word in the mouth; I may come back briefly to these interpretations – what is the global consequence of this economic crisis if you want to? What could be corrected at European level? And: What's actually homemade? I may actually distinguish myself from Mr Gusenbauer, because I think more strongly that as a small open economy, one cannot decouple itself as the impression was given here. In reality, therefore, the Federal Government's attitude is all the more incomprehensible, above all the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but also the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economic Affairs. If it is the case that we have an international economic crisis, Austria is inevitably covered by it, or will still be recorded partly on the basis of the deceleration effects described, then it is no shame to admit it once and to take appropriate measures based on it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why does that seem so important to me? – The idea – if at all there is a positive idea behind it, Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Finanzminister – your approach, the things – under quotations, as you call them – "don't want to talk bad," is obviously a psychological one, so that the economy can no longer be alarmed from this side. Their philosophy is presented in this way. But that goes completely empty, even in the wrong direction! Why? – If all the world realizes that we are heading towards a recession or that we are in such a situation, then your health care and your constant repetition of Mantra will only be carried on in various sessions and on various summits, your unbelief. Who can you believe, then, that you are taking reasonable, very likely countermeasures if you are not even able or unwilling to admit the situation? – You have almost played your credibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is not just a question of credibility. This delaying effect of the perception or ability of the situation is, as a result, directly harmful to any economic policy measures. What you're proposing now and what we can sometimes even welcome – I'm going to come back to it – is that because of your continuing refusal – today you've been a bit "opened up" for the first time – tending to be too late. After all, it is the essence of short-term economic fluctuations that they pass by again in the foreseeable future. That is to say, the measures you are taking and you want to take against the economic valley must be done in such a timely manner that they will still work if we are in the downturn phase. What you're breaking in is: to refuse, to look at, to speak beautifully, to admit things in part, to set up a few measures – in the larger style of pseudo-measures – but the few good measures you propose are at risk of being too late. You also have to answer that with your constant refusal! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We can also demonstrate this good conscience – as I fully agree with my previous speaker Gusenbauer: It was the opposition that has long pointed out how the world economy will develop, in a dramatic situation, when, at the same time, the USA, Japan, and – which was already apparent before the summer – the euro area was in crisis. However, until today, or until the first of your so-called economic summit, you have tried to keep speaking about the matter. And that was the problem I described. If you had responded in time, we might be there in a few months. [[Abg. Murauer: But worse!]] – Wait, Mr. Cot! Don't hesitate to go that far! You've never got that right before. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I come to the proof I promised you. On this cover of the renowned economic journal "The Economist", which is not really in demand to be some globally left-wing central organ, but rather to be called a quite liberal-economy magazine, one wrote already in the summer of recession. [[the speaker keeps an issue of this magazine up to date]] – The third time we present this to you, because we are constantly confronted by you that everything has been palletti anyway. In my opinion, this is very likely to indicate that you have, from whatever motives, continued to reject reality. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Not enough, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, did you rise to the forerunner in this renunciation liturgy, which was constantly celebrated, and constantly say: There's no crisis! - Oh, it's someone saying "recession"! That's very dangerous right now. It is already playing out offerable methods of hearing and persecuting within the economic scene and it is listened whether anyone takes the impossible R word into the mouth, "recession" must not be said. They fled in any economic-scientific definition disputes that really do not bring anything to anyone in practice. This only serves to document – and I am at the next point – your unwillingness to do something. I am not even so sure that what is done or is not done is simply an expression of inadequacies, I have much more suspicion that there is also a good shot of ideology behind it, because this turnover government – which we have experienced at first – is precisely predestined with its manic state philosophy to stop wanting to take action. We hear it all the time: The state is bad, the public must not spend anything, there must be no new debt. - I'm going to come back to this marketing log. I'm not surprised you don't do much. They may not want to do much because that fits into the new credo of this turnover government. That is why in the summer and autumn of 2001 we had and have had the next bad episode of this turnkey cabinet to wear. After we were faced with authoritarian measures in the field of democracy in the first year, this is now becoming final and dramatic in the economic and social sphere. Now that you can and should take counter-taxes – at least with possible measures in Austria – this is denied. This also corresponds in reality to your ideology and to your dogmatics. That is my diagnosis; therefore, it is also noted that the so-called turnaround in this area has brought little good. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] "High-level stagnation" is what you have contributed. "crisis" must not be said, "high-level stagnation" is still permitted. Let us now come to the facts of such an attitude! It is not so much about the level of some sizes, but about the change, Mr Federal Chancellor, when we are drawing on key indicators of economic crisis. That's the problem. With the statement "Stagnation at a High Level" you do not serve anyone. This only implies that the high level of economic productivity on the central issue of the increase in unemployment does not help much. It is crucial and decisive, however, to what extent labour productivity is developing more and faster than economic growth and the inexhaustibility of capacity. For this reason, this is another inadmissible fog lamp with regard to the problem of unemployment if you want to introduce the Austrians with this slogan. In fact: Labour market data have shown a bad direction in recent months. And this has long been new in Austria too; you can and should no longer check it out! This means, in summary, that: Your denial of reality leads you to be unbelievable with the few measures you announce that these measures, if they are useful, will come too late and that you will lose any credibility for further action if you do not find a diagnosis that can and would share enough people. [[Abg. Großruck: The international figures prove something different!]] Let us come to some measures of this so-called package. First of all, there are some negative comments, but you can also expect that we will recognise some measures quite positively. Let us first come to the negative points that have been announced here. Education policy has once again been taken as an example of the government's special activity. However, I feel that you are no longer moving in schools and universities, otherwise you will know how to do so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can turn the numbers and turn as you like, but the real budget for education has stagnated since 1999. We've discussed that often enough. And again, you are setting up any flaws to put yourself statistically in a better light. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This should not mean, however, that we do not want to recognise the efforts in the field of education and, subsequently, especially in the field of research and development, if they are serious and actually implemented. It is now not time to discuss what a truly successful research and development policy would be: To spend 7 billion schilling and put another 7 billion on it is one thing, but what is actually done with it is another thing. However, I am willing to acknowledge that there is at least a certain will in this respect. One more thing, Mr. Federal Chancellor: When it comes to economic policy measures, of course these measures are not the right argument, because economic policy measures have to be much more short-term and are taking place elsewhere. However, I agree that this is a site policy measure that is extremely important in the long term. I should also like to draw up a point which I think should be very positive. This concerns the question of the concentration of means of housing development. This is also positive for us Greens, we would only encourage us to concentrate the funds in the area of thermal building renovation, because per spent schilling can be achieved the blasphemous highest work intensity. Let us come to further important measures that we want to stimulate! Essentially, the so-called automatic stabilizers – I know this is an unword, but it is important – will be allowed to grasp. What does that mean? . This means that tax revenue, which decreases in the event of a weakening of the economy, and less revenue for the budget should not be collected by counter-taxes. This would happen exactly if you strictly want to stick to your replacement religion zero deficit, which you have just highly stylized to hysteria. [[Abg. Großruck: We don't have a "replace religion"! We are Christian faith!]] There's a danger. Let the automatic stabilizers work and operate You active labour market policy! This too is an invigorating business. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Do not put billions and billions of the labour market administration in your budget, but let the money come to the good of those who really need it now. This will be useful – just as a wage and income tax reduction is useful for those who have already been punished enough by your previous measures. This would also have an invigorating effect on the economy and would also have the effect of social justice in the sense of economic activity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm allowed to sum up: They continue to refuse to recognize the drama of the situation. This causes you to react too hesitantly and too late and that you have very little to offer except for a worrying "result use" from measures of your government program that you announce here. For positive measures you will find our support, for further smoking bombs and announcements of You'll be able to count on our resistance. We will try to further inform the population in this sense. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e6549	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e6571	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! I would also like to introduce a sentence on what the ORF's live transmission of this meeting is about. Once again, it is precisely and exclusively when speaking to a member of the government – in this case to that of the Vice-Chancellor – who could not hear large parts of this speech because of a tone disorder. There was the insert "sound disorder", that is, the ORF has informed us that it is sustainablely disturbed, and I am convinced that this sustainable disorder will be corrected in the next few weeks when this company will have come to a comprehensive renewal that is urgently needed, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's incredible!]] It is already significant that the leadership to Brussels to the Federal Chancellor does not work, that the management of the High House in Vienna, when the Vice-Chancellor speaks, on the Küniglberg does not work, but that without problems, lines from Jalalabad and Kabul, from crisis areas, work. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Everyone should take a picture of that. But I am convinced that it will be a new management to buy new wireless and cable devices, so that everything works, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] On the subject itself. The economic package is really a very remarkable package of this renewal government. It contains the essential features of boosting the economy in a phase in which there is a slight weakness in the economy. It includes impulses for businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, a strengthening of the purchasing power of people in Austria, a labour market offensive, and investment in research, development and education. Nevertheless, these offensive measures remain: We're not starting from the zero deficit course! No, no, no, We are not making any more debts, Mr Gusenbauer – unlike your policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The objective must, of course, be a sustainable discharge of the population over the next two years, but not on pump as you have done for years, but on the basis of a consolidated budget, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ! It is interesting to draw on the economic experts and economic researchers, such as Kramer of the Wifo, who basically rated this package positively, or Felder of the IHS, who even said that this was a modern economic recovery programme. Today we heard the third economic expert, Mr Gusenbauer, who predicted that everything was bad. You can take a picture of where the mistake lies, not of the assessment itself, but of the error obviously lies in the qualification of the evaluator. The economic researchers all have more right than the bad-makers in the opposition, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I come to a subject that is also significant. For a quarter of an hour, the President of the S & D Party is here on the subject of economics, the labour market, employment and the economy, and has not brought about a single sentence on the most burning problem in Austria, namely semperit. Not a sentence! I've been thinking about: Why is that? Why is that so? – Then I've been looking and thinking, that's actually quite clear: This question concerning Semperit, Semperit-Werk is, in fact, a decades-long failure story of the Social Democrats, Mr Gusenbauer, because they have always borne the responsibility for the current development. And even now they don't get away from having to bear the responsibility for the failure and for the many cancellations there. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I'll prove it to you. You know, a few years ago, a certain Mr. Hannes Androsch carried out the sale of Semperit, then owned by CA, to Conti to secure the company permanently. [[Oh-Rufe of Deputies of Freedom and of the ÖVP]] A few years later, in 1991, there was an inventory guarantee from the then Social Democratic Finance Minister that the work would of course remain in Traiskirchen. One has powdered 1.2 billion schillings of funding, and yet the research department has already been transferred from Vienna to Hanover at the time, 1991. That's what you've already purchased. That was the blatant beginning of this failure story of the Social Democrats! And it goes on: In 1996, there was the next crisis. At that time, Chancellor Vranitzky said to Semperit's employees literally: "Don't be so negative, the outcome of the negotiations is positive! Until the evidence of the opposite, the principle will bear us hope." This was in 1996 when the next step was taken towards semperit conservation and 1 000 workers were cancelled. So it went on – a noise through the leaf forest –: [[the speaker subsequently keeps articles of various daily newspapers up to date]] "Vranitzky: Semperit with as many employees as possible". Mr President of the Council! Where's the union at Semperit? – 1996 it said: "OECD Chief: Sturmlauf gegen Liquidation von Semperit". Trade union president Vergestnich will work for the preservation of the plant. It goes even further: "Semperit: Chance of survival – climate and resistance hope for a rethinking at the Conti Group." – You can still hope today, only the rethinking will not take place. There is another headline that was particularly interesting: Vrannitzky has been visiting Beijing in 1996 Let us align the following: "Semperit's not condemned to death!" – Not sentenced to death! It is now certain that Vrannitzky said that Semperit was not sentenced to death, but remains permanent, because the current solution to reducing jobs will ensure it. - So far, Vrannitzky. What has come out, we know today: that this work is locked up and that you bear the responsibility for it. Today, because of this failure story, they do not bring out a sentence to the Semperit work and to the many workers who now have fear of Christmas for their existence, to their families to make their way. And that is your very personal failure, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Or: The SPÖ is presenting today a motion for a resolution, 16 pages with flakes on economic and economic recovery. A paragraph with four lines deals with Semperit! It is said that it was not right to sell the Semperit plant, give up Austria and sell it to Conti. – You have forgotten who did that, who sold Semperit, and you don’t come around to define clearly what to do now. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are today presenting a joint motion for a resolution by the two government parties on measures to ensure the future of Semperit employees, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] We are committed to the families and to the workers of Semperit, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We can't make your mistakes right anymore because the events are advanced, but we'll be working for the workers there in a sustainable way. This was an example of your failure in economic policy, but there are two more examples – and I want to bring them up to date – that prove and can be understood by them as false After just a few weeks and months with your statements. One of these further examples is: Now, when we hear that unemployment is rising again – this is unfortunate; only it is by far not at the level on which it was once under the socialist government in the nineties; but it has risen, and that is to regret, and every unemployed person is too much – I ask you to remember that we all remember what happened in the spring of this year when it suddenly predicted – by many experts too – that we have a labour shortage. What was in the spring? – That’s where the Social Democrats called for: We must immediately open the borders and allow more immigration! We need to get people from abroad to integrate them into our labour market! Here too the proof "The SPÖ demands more immigrants for the labour market." [[Keeping a newspaper page in height]] ==References== A four-point programme was launched in May 2001 and immediately wanted to open the labour market for immigrants. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! If we had done that at the time, today we would have a multiple of the unemployment that we actually have. And that would have been irresponsible, you have to say. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Third example of false assessments and statements: I must refer to Mr Edlinger, who was here quite a year ago and who has disillusioned the government's economic policy on the issue of Telekom's stock exchange. I have the quotations, Mr Edlinger. Do you know what you claimed at the time when Deutsche Telekom was on the stock exchange only a few weeks, even a few days? – There you have scourged and watered us, what this government has done fearsomely, that, so to speak, the state assets have been sold out and thrown out on the stock exchange. Literally, you said: "The IPO of Telekom Austria is a pipe-creper". I hope, Mr Edlinger, that you will not become an expert on wealth and stock exchanges, because if you had advised the small investors at the time, they would look great today! We know today that the Telekom share has been the most successful share of the year, and that is also good. We welcome this, and this is also a success of the Austrian Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It can be seen that the Social Democrats with economics and finances do not have much to do with the fact that they have incubated what we now have to do. That is why this economic package is so important and so correct. Many, many measures in the field of the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises include support for young entrepreneurs, investment in the construction sector, the expansion of support also for external training and, and, There are in this There are some other very good measures, but there are also very good measures for Austrian workers at a certainly difficult stage, such as the construction work foundation, which you will not reject, I assume, also from the trade union. It is a very, very good establishment, in which thousands of workers can find a bridge in this difficult phase and are ultimately also supported. Or: a further step in the direction of finally unifying the concept of workers; the first step has already been taken with the harmonization of the pay-for-money payments in the case of sickness. Now we are going to take the next step, and I really hope that the social partners we are asking for will also be involved, in order to improve, for example, the measures to be taken in the event of termination. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor has already said it: It is not a question of workers in the construction sector having a notice period of only one week, which is only available in the case of ten years of business membership, or there is a notice of one day in the bakery industry. There must be improvements, and we also want to take a further step towards a uniform worker concept so that employees and workers in Austria are treated fairly, ladies and gentlemen, not differently. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The AMS reform, private work intermediaries – all these are measures to be welcomed and supported. We will also increase the funds for an offensive labour market policy again this year. We have left them with over 10 billion schilling last year despite falling unemployment and despite rising employment, and they will increase to over 11 billion shilling this year. And we will ensure that the purchasing power of the Austrians is improved and expanded, for example through the childcare allowance, which is an essential measure and means 6 billion schilling more purchasing power. But also the many payroll accounts that have now been issued ultimately bring a purchasing power profit of 30 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! The ship of this government is fully on course, even though the sea of economics is very stormy. I would recommend: Instead of talking about the shipwreck in the form of new elections and looking for it, instead of drilling more and more holes at Bug and Heck, so that this ship goes down, you should consider the well-being of the whole country and take the rowing firmly into your hands with us. That's why I'm asking you. This government has the rower firmly under control even in stormy economic times and sails the state ship Austria into a safe port!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e6738	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Dr. Khol is also involved in the negotiations and is also sufficiently supported. The next speaker is Mr Edlinger. The following speakers have a speaking time of 10 minutes each. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e6763	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The cat is now apparently out of the bag, the so-called success model of the Federal Government is presented. The mountain cried, and a little mouse was born. For a long time you've needed until you've even been able to get through to do anything! You have taken a long time to get through to admit that we are in an economically difficult situation. You have taken a long time to realize that, whether you like it or not, you have the responsibility for the economy, society and for the social situation in our country, ladies and gentlemen of the government. It's been a year since – it was on the 21st. December 2000 – that the economic researchers of Wifo and IHS have warned of a decline in economic growth and a threat of recession in the USA, which spread to Europe. A year has passed since, ladies and gentlemen, and you haven't done anything for a year! It's been half a year – that's not just since 11. September, but since May the case! – that unemployment rates in Austria have risen for the first time. – Nothing you have done about it, ladies and gentlemen. Only now do you present a supposed economic programme – half-hearted, actually empty and in wide areas without effect. It was also defined by professionals and journalists as what it is. For example, how does "FORMAT" write under the title "Teufels Blessing and God's Contribution"? – The government’s large-scale economic programme proves to be a mogel pack. It is not much more than a summary of still open points of the Government Pact. Money is hardly taken into consideration to stimulate the economy. - Quote. In fact, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen: Poor is what the Federal Government has presented, half-hearted, without internal commitment – obviously because, despite the opposite and extensive public work, you have not succeeded in discussing the massive economic problems in Austria. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I really found it amusing at the last meeting of the National Council, when the Federal Chancellor has still not seen a recession, but – literally – "dark prospects". – Well, this is a very innovative German chancellor who predicts the Austrian population "dark prospects"! And the Minister of Finance also assisted and said that he was actually optimistic and firmly convinced that Austria was not in a recession. [[Abg. Großruck: Like "Null Growth"! "Minus growth"! - That's from Kreisky! That's what Mr. Kreisky has shaped!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The economic researchers quoted by you took part on 21 January. Mr Kramer, the head of Wifo, spoke on the long-avoided sentence: Austria also slides into a recession. – As a result, the threats to the economic research institutes were Legion because they did not parade because they simply did not say what was right in the government, but because they said what it really is, that we are in a difficult situation and that the federal government needs action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The assessment of your policy, especially of economic policy, by people is also legion: In a recent OGM survey, 72 percent of the Austrian population say that Black-Blue's economic policy is a disaster. – The assessment of your economic policies by people is no wonder: While you are trying to talk everything away, people notice every day that it is getting more difficult – the economy is crisisd, unemployment is increasing dramatically, the labour market service has to be saved because the government has to cut the funds, the health insurance benefits are shortening because the government is shortening the funds, the offer to schools is getting worse because the government is shortening the funds for them, the pensioners are asked to cash a second time. – Your budget consolidation takes place on the back of the pensioners and the unemployed. This is a disgraceful act, ladies and gentlemen, and this remains to you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor stand here and say: What do you want, it's still good?- Oh, my God! And then reference is made to what it is supposed to look like in the rest of Europe. . However, they are not telling us that only recently, in the last economic report, namely in the report on the budgetary and economic situation in Europe, the European Commission on Austria stated literally: The budget policy of the Austrian government limits private and public demand. The purchasing power has been suppressed by tax measures and high inflation. Due to moderate earnings in 2001, real income loss is due to the high tax rate for the first time this year. Budgetary policy has led to a fall in the economy, particularly construction investment. The decline in the deficit – remember the sentence, Minister of Finance! – due to tax increases and tax revenue. The record height of 45.6 percent speaks volumes. – As far as the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, not the opposition in Austria! The European Commission, on which you are constantly calling, is critical of Austrian budgetary, economic and tax policy and rightly, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You don't even confess to the politics you're making. Again and again – and that for almost two years! – talk to your predecessors about what the ÖVP is about to laugh at! After me, Mr. Stumbling will speak, who will say the same thing again. [[Abg. Big Truck: 100 million less interest per year!]] He has forgotten, like everyone else in the ÖVP, that they have been listening to this government for 13 years! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's compare today and earlier! – Economic growth in Austria was still higher in 1999 than in the EU average; now it is the other way round. In 1999, inflation in Austria was lower than in the EU average; now it is the other way round. The government debt of Austria was still below the EU average in 1999 and now lies above it. And unemployment is also increasing dramatically. – All the essential aspects of economic policy in Austria have become worse, and all this has been at the expense of the people in this country, ladies and gentlemen of the government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Don't say the untruth!]] Especially unemployment is something that really concerns me. You can "overturn" with some numbers, but it is a fact that we already have unemployment today – trend is rising! – which is above that of 1999, and at the same time, over the three years of your budget policy, you will spend 35 billion schillings of unemployment funds on the budget! That's the policy you're making! You don't care about people in this country, and I highly criticise it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just as you really abandon the people in Traiskirchen... – It is true that the sale was started in 1986, but I can remind you of what attitude [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're to blame for the miser!]] You had about Donawitz at the time? That was the recommendation of your former party observer Haider! No one knows how your government's privatisation will proceed. We learned from it. Today, for example, the workers and employees of the ATW also have to tremble that in the near future a fate similar to that of the employees of Semperit-Traiskirchen is facing them – and for that you bear the responsibility! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This government does not create jobs, it does not create unemployed people. This government does not provide for the income of people, but takes away work and income. This government does not make economic policy, but it operates the sale of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of my friends Gusenbauer and Vergestnitsch, I propose a resolution on growth programme for Austria, safeguarding future, prosperity and employment in the interests of people in our country and companies. I think I'm venerationful Ladies and gentlemen, you would be wisely advised not only to look at our motion for a resolution critically, but also to agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e6914	We have the practice of distributing applications in writing if they are very extensive. Mr Edlinger spoke the formula: I put forward a motion for a resolution. He has applied for a growth programme for Austria to ensure the future, prosperity and employment,... [[Contradict with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Do we now want to have a debate on how many words one goes into a resolution to be distributed in writing? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But we want equal rights!]] I'm a friend of salomonic solutions. I will ask colleagues to go further on this motion for a resolution, and we will then vote on this motion, as we do on all the other motions for a resolution. I suggest this procedure. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You can't say anything about it because it's so empty!]] The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e6995	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Let me begin by saying just a few sentences on the statements made by my previous speaker. I think we all have experienced that colleague Edlinger is a verbose parliamentarian – with a very remarkable rhetoric. However, he has a big handicap: The content of his speeches is unbelievable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] He makes himself here, gives beautiful speeches and says what was bad in the government, but a few years ago he did not take his own chance, the Finance Minister of the former government. Mr Edlinger, that is why you have the handicap that everything you say with so much crafty rhetoric is actually unbelievable. It is not about beautiful speeches, it is about concrete actions, it is about measures for people in this country! Let me say this very clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] A second comment, Mr Edlinger: With your speeches I already notice several times that you are building up your speeches according to the principle of selective perception. You'll find out those magazine cuts that fit you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] I could do the same now and find those who fit me. But I think a parliamentary speech must be more than reading newspaper excerpts, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If we are talking today about the economic location of Austria and the offensive measures of this Federal Government, I would like to make one point – in this respect we should agree in this House, and in this respect all the internationally experienced managers agree –: The largest capital for Austria's economic location is the people in this country, which are the diligent, skilled entrepreneurs, the motivated employees, the hard-working farmers and the commercials. They are the most important capital of Austria's economic location, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We can be proud of human capital in this country! It's starting with the youth. We can be proud that in the last few years Austria has been one of the top three countries in every professional olympiade. We are proud of our youth! We were on the stockerl at every job olympiade. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] We also have the lowest youth unemployment, ladies and gentlemen. This is indeed our biggest capital. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Let me also say very clearly: The fact that this federal government is so successful, there is a very simple reason for this: It has put in place the false socialist concepts, which have led to genuine pleas, and has a modern economic policy. This federal government has laid three main pillars of the previous economic policy ad acta. One of the pillars was: The state creates jobs. What an error, ladies and gentlemen! We've experienced this sad. The State as an industrial employer: The government industry was the largest industrial plate of our country's history! Then there was the attempt: the union as an entrepreneur. With the "consum" we had the biggest trading plate in the history of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to the socialist economic philosophy in the entrepreneur, this Federal Government does not see a crossroads between Prügelnabe and Melkkuh, but this German government sees in the entrepreneur the engine of development, which understands to lead Austria to the top of Europe with motivated employees! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In his speech today, our clubman has already presented some international rankings, where we stand in Europe: Place one, place one, place three. Mr Gusenbauer! You meant in your speech... He does not listen at all, he is not interested; I take note of that, but I say it to the other members of the House. [[Abg. Großruck: He is not present spiritually!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He is not capable of learning!]] In his speech, Mr Gusenbauer claimed that Austria had slipped into the middle of the middle of the unemployment rate. – It is true that Austria is still among the three to four best countries in the EU, ladies and gentlemen. At the moment, we are taking fourth place, but the EU's forecast says that we will be in third place again next year. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Fifth!]] Mr Gusenbauer! Please come out and correct what you said wrong here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Farewell from philosophy, the state secure jobs. – Only entrepreneurs can secure jobs. This is the realization of missing socialist politics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Second base arrow: Debt secure jobs. Farewell from this philosophy, which was preached for years. Today we know that debt is the biggest enemy of jobs, are the enemy of income opportunities, are the enemy of social security. Third pillar of your many years of missing policy: Social problems are simply solved with more money. That was your philosophy for years. Today, we have seen from Semperit's example that it is not social to tell the Semperit workers that you will get a lot of unemployment money for quite a long time, but that it is fair and social to tell them that we will do everything we can to ensure that you have opportunities in the labour market by means of re-training, by means of qualifications. Our Minister of Economic Affairs, together with the State of Lower Austria, is in the process of creating, in the form of a modern work foundation, the prerequisites for the Semperit workers, who no one can guarantee that they will get a job again in a tire factory, who will receive qualifications in order to obtain permanent jobs in a low-Austrian car cluster. For us, permanent jobs are better than permanent unemployment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Another difference is noted in this economic programme: Economic programmes among socialist German Chancellors, among socialist finance ministers, were usually billions of programmes for large projects in the construction sector. There were machines, but no people. I agree with Professor Felder that this is a modern, intelligent economic programme, because it is not only based on rapid effects, but also means structural policy and location policy. Today, economic policy is highly local policy. It is the merit of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen, that a threefold strategy will be built on sound and solid state finances – solidity and seriality for this federal government. The first point in this threefold strategy is: Modernising the state, administrative reform – we have heard it – not only less bureaucracy, less paper war, fewer authorities, but also through the modernisation of the state, the budget is reduced by more than 20 billion schilling. Second point: Investment in the future. This economic programme is not only based on short-term effects, but is very consciously investing in our largest capital, in human capital. Tax incentives and premiums for education, for research, for development, for technology, for export promotion – this is a very intelligent economic programme in contrast to those measures, ladies and gentlemen, where machines are employed but no jobs are secured for people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The third point, in addition to the modernisation of the state and the investment in the future, is undoubtedly the following: Liberation of the citizen. I hear here so often the argument of tax and tax ratio. That is right, the tax and tax rate is an international number that is quite used. But this Federal Government, with its measures in other areas, has very probably contributed to the discharge of citizens, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Edlinger: To discharge!]] The liberalisation of electricity, gas and Telekom has resulted in a relief of between 10 and 12 billion schilling. The introduction of child money will relieve families of about 9 billion. – Ladies and gentlemen! All of these are relief measures which are not carried out in the tax and tax rate, but are not meant to be silent. These are concrete measures to discharge the citizen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: I believe that this policy, based on a healthy budget, is based on this triple strategy: Modernisation of the state, discharge of the citizen, investment in the future, this country is in good hands with this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e7145	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e7167	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Dear Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are in a debate on economics and employment and a statement by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor. So you should actually discuss this issue. What I've heard so far was polemics on the part of the government parties. – And allow me, Mr Klubobmann Khol and Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, to say the following: What you've done about the ORF is incredible. That's really incredible! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If your conspiracy theories were not so ridiculous, you could pass over it. But if Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler and you, too, announce that this will have changed in a few weeks, then there will be no more pans, then this saying reminds me of the one of the former party chairman Haider, after which the editorial offices would still be smoked out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss]] – This is your language that we firmly reject. Let that be said! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Neither the ORF nor a editorial office is your living room where you can have room as you like, even if you have this place. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who knows if you will be heard! Maybe you're not on show! Flittering picture!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us return to this debate. [[Abg. May. Trattner: flickering picture!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mattscheide!]] For the economy: I have been in Parliament for seven years, and in these seven years, i.e. since 1994, I have experienced some debates on economic and employment. You can believe that I never did very well when I heard this and imagined how this is perceived by someone who hears from above, from the visitor gallery, or from outside this debate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can see that!]] It was also under the old coalition government so that many announcements were made that it was said: We're the best, and that's it. Some measures have been presented – whether they have worked or not, the spirits have divorced. And sometimes, Mr Schweitzer, we and you, too, knew that measures proposed by the Federal Government have gone beyond them in the form they have been proposed. I just remember the apprentice offensive. But what I want to do to this old federal government – apart from what happened to "Euroteam", I do not think it is good for it; we Greens were involved in or interested in clarifying this – is: After all, it has given rise to the appearance as if it were going to do something, and this appears that this federal government no longer wants to give itself. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: "Appear to awaken"!]] This is the cynical renunciation of every attempt to have a positive impact on the economy, jobs, education and skills of this country through politics. That's the song, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor Schüssel says: We have kept ourselves surprisingly good!, knocking on the shoulder and saying that the PISA study, that is, this international ranking regarding education system, has shown that we are among the best. Klubobmann Khol says that the PISA study has proved that the Austrian way, namely not to go to the general school, was successful. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] Do you know, Mr. Klubobmann Khol, that reality is different? – 31 countries have been tested. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] Of these, seven are developing countries. That we are in front of these countries is not a great art. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Before Germany!]] We are not first, not second, not third, but tenth, or 12th. In the middle field, we are in the middle field! - No, you're expecting the developing countries away. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But in the first third!]] You will not want to count emerging countries and developing countries like Brazil or Poland! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What do you have for prejudices against Poland?]] With 24 countries of these 31, we can compare expenditure to the development of our gross national product, which makes sense to compare it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of these 31 countries, 24 are in our "price class", and there we are twelve. That's what you call a success? Which countries are in the front? . Exactly those countries, Dr. Khol, which have made a lot of progress towards integration, have done more than Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany, and those countries with school-like education systems are at the forefront. These are in the front, Dr. Khol! You must look at the statistics and not just pretend to know anything about it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Furthermore, the unemployment rate. In this respect, it is said that we are not there bad. – It is interesting and important to note that we are not at the forefront. We have been European peak in terms of the low unemployment rate for decades, number one, if you want to name it after the term of a ski race. Number one we were! Now we're number four. And the amazing thing, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, is that there are three countries within the European Union, namely Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany and Portugal, where unemployment is increasing in contrast to the other twelve countries. Austria is there! In Austria unemployment is rising, and you say four years of unemployment benefit for the Semperit workers and a work foundation would already be rich. Ladies and gentlemen! I have nothing against the fact that unemployment benefit is paid out for four years, but it is at the same time an admission that the little unemployment benefit that others receive is far too little to counter. Why Make You're not working funds, you're re-training for all the other unemployed? Where are your concepts? Where have you implemented the measures of the National Action Plan on Employment in recent years? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: AMS billions!]] Austria has promised to activate 20 percent of the unemployed by means of training and qualification measures. We're keeping about 20 percent. With rising unemployment in 2002 and constant resources, it is no longer even possible to activate this 20 percent. You know that, Minister of Economic Affairs, and if you do not know, you have heard it now. You do not do this with the same means, but you can only do it by increasing resources. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Chancellor! I would like to say the following: In the spring of 2000, you said here in front of this House – I quote from your speech –: "A few days ago, the world company Coca Cola Vienna has chosen the third largest headquarters. Clyde Tuggle, whom I know very well because I have conducted some negotiations with him on this subject, said: Vienna will be the headquarters for more than 30 countries. – This is not bad, I would say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] "The reality is: Coca Cola has terminated between 100 and 200 people in Austria. You said at the time: Siemens will increase its investments. – The reality is: The Infineon plant, a daughter of Siemens, reduces labour force. You said at the time: Philips invests in the sculpture. – The reality is: Philips announces 1,200 employees in Austria. 70 part-time workers are terminated in Lebring’s imagery plant. You said at the time: MAN relocates the entire lightweight truck production to Steyr. – The reality is: at least 280 redundancies at SNSF, MAN in Steyr and also a reduction in the number of temporary workers. You said: In the automotive industry, at Opel, at MAGNA, is invested everywhere. – The reality is, almost everywhere there has been cuts. If you are already blaming yourself, Mr Bundeskanzler, with investments from companies for which you can't do anything, because you didn't make any contribution if you already want to get your ID here, then you also have to assume responsibility for having made massive cancellations there, and then you can't cynically clean yourself up if it actually gets worse: We can't do anything for it, we wash our hands in innocence. We have nothing to say about economics and employment. – That was your announcement, Federal Chancellor, and that is too little for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e7415	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mrs Ollinger, Mrs Freundes, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e7439	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We have the 12th today. December – that is, in 12 days Rudi Rentier comes with Santa Claus – and Rudi Ratlos has read a motion for a resolution that disregards any reasonable basis. [[Abg. May. Kogler: 11.18 a.m., my colleague.]] [[in the direction of the Abg. Edellinger]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Very good!]] [[Abg. That was weak!]] We are, of course, looking closely at your motions for resolutions, but there is nothing new in them. They make the same mistake over and over again: In 1999 you decided a wage tax reform in the order of 30 billion schilling without being able to finance it accordingly, and now again under item 1 you demand a wage tax reduction of 30 billion schilling. Where do you take the financial cover? Secondly, you are in favour of a temporary reintroduction of the investment exemption. – I do not think you have read through the concept of the Federal Government, because there is something similar there: in the form of an early depreciation for the construction measures in the order of 7 percent plus the linear reduction of the AFA rate of 3 percent, which is 10 percent. They insist that there is no infrastructure package. – Let us compare the infrastructure of the Social Democratic Transport Ministers with the current situation: In 1995, there were 6.2 billion schilling on the road and 13.8 billion schilling in 2002 were planned, which is more than 100 percent increase! For the rails in 1995 – among social-democratic transport ministers – it was 6.4 billion schilling; in 2002 there will be 14.7 billion schilling; this is an increase of around 100 percent between 1995 and 2002. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] The Federal Government takes these measures seriously. What you used to do was to have a carousel of transport policy at the expense of future generations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Further, write in your request to contribute to the renovation of the older and historical building materials. – You have not read the Federal Government’s package of measures. Have you used an old application? - That's to be feared. But you obviously do not take your requests very seriously either, because you do not even listen when you discuss your requests. This is out of date because the Federal Government is implementing measures in the field of the construction industry or in the area of monument protection and the renovation of the older building materials. There is an investment programme in the order of more than 1 billion schilling. – Everything contained in the concept of the Federal Government! But you ask for all of this again in your motion for a resolution. Are you not reading the concepts presented by the Federal Government at all? – Maybe you should also listen to what independent experts have to say about it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Furthermore, you urge the sale of ÖIAG shares to abroad and demand that it stop. I have to tell you quite honestly: That's really irony! They were the world champions in debt making, they were the world champions in the destruction of money, not only in the nationalized industry. Because of your policy, the "consumer" has gone into bankruptcy, your policy has sold the shares that the "consumer" has held in BAWAG for the reorganisation or financing of insolvency proceedings, not domestically, but abroad. – That’s your policy! [[Abg. Bures: What happened to "Free living"?]] What about the CA? What about Bank Austria? – The Bank Austria, the flagship of the Austrian banking scene, was not sold to domestic interested parties, it was sold to foreign shareholders within the meaning of the Bayerische Vereinsbank. – This is the policy you are pursuing! But the policy pursued by this Federal Government, particularly in connection with the ÖIAG, is reasonable and must also be made so that debt service can finally be reduced so that budgetary measures can be implemented at all. With your budgetary policy, you have left no room at all to create any reserves so that you can react accordingly in case of less strong growth. The measures taken by this Federal Government are in a range of 20 billion schilling for the year 2002: 11.8 billion schilling by promoting research and technology, promoting construction measures, promoting investment in historical buildings, promoting the renovation of the old house; Childcare money in the order of 8 billion Schilling, which benefits families indirectly and will contribute to a purchasing power increase in the order of 8 billion Schilling. The package presented by the Federal Government will indirectly trigger an investment boost of 80 billion schilling. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is completely absurd! These numbers are the white horror!]] These aren't little things. This Federal Government has taken its work seriously and can only implement these measures because the budget reorganisation has been carried out accordingly and we have already reached the zero deficit this year. With your budgetary policy, you have increased taxes in an order of 108.5 billion schilling, and in the final effect no zero balance has come out, but you have made more and more new debts because you have not understood the budget policy – unfortunately God to the detriment of the Austrians – or unfortunately still do not understand today. Therefore, it is good that we now have another federal government with another finance minister. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In your motion for a resolution you also urge that there be a real loss of income in Austria. – Look You're not looking at the numbers? A comparison with your so-called savings package or consolidation package from 1997 in the order of over 108.5 billion schilling shows that the real income has fallen by 2.4 percent. In 2000, real income rose by 0.8 percent. Is that a reduction? – This is practically an increase in real income, as you can only wish. It would have been better if it had been more, but it was so difficult to open up your estate that it was also possible for the Austrian population to take in-depth measures. However, it has also been created the possibility of setting up appropriate impulses. Germany is not able to set any impulses at all. This is the "success" of the red-green federal government in Germany. Germany has a worse economic growth than Austria, a higher unemployment rate, with 4 million unemployed. The Red-Green Federal Government in Germany has put in place measures that are harmful to investment, namely: Ecotax, limitation of rental law, which resulted in a reduction in investment projects, especially in the housing sector, of 10 percent. And we don't want that! On the basis of this budgetary policy, Germany is now in the final position in Europe as regards the deficit. This is the "success" of the red-green budget policy. Therefore, this Austrian Federal Government has undertaken to create certain possibilities to take appropriate measures in the event of recession or in the event of lower growth. Therefore, it has also been possible to do something for pensioners. You with your budget policy have gone from one day to the next. You have the 13th. Sales tax deadline introduced so that the budget deficit does not explode next year. They did not give pensioners any increase at all in 1996 and 1997, and in 2000 pensioners experienced an increase of 1.1 percent, which is still under negotiation, at an inflation rate of 2.3 percent! This federal government has covered the rate of inflation of more than 50 percent, i.e. for average pensions, of 2.9 percent. This federal government has ensured adaptation for those who really need it. The inflation rate for average pensions has been implemented by this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is the difference to your previous policy: We budget carefully, we do not promise more than we can keep, but we ensure that Austria's economic location is preserved and that the population in Austria is well. I think the path that this Federal Government has taken, especially with this concept, is justifiable!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e7580	The next speaker was Mr Vergestnich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e7602	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Gusenbauer has already referred to our motion for a resolution in particular, and the previous speaker of my group has done so, so I am now bringing this motion for a resolution, which has already been taken note of, to the good order. [[Quoted print version removed]] In its priorities, this request presents the facts and, above all, the proposals for solutions. Mr Trattner, allow me to make the following point: It was not the Social Democracy that made the claim that the pensioners had actually received too much – it was the Federal Chancellor who publicly presented it! This seems to me to be important, because we have always been concerned about maintaining purchasing power for pensioners, and not by measures which last and this year do not take into account inflation, by actually reducing measures taken in the field of taxation and taxation. This is our policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It makes no sense, in my opinion, to paint facts or to put us on sick leave. These are not answers for the thousands who are currently afraid of their jobs in the region around Traiskirchen. These are no answers for the construction workers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the union?]] – Mr Westenthaler! You just need to look at: We're on site, but you're sitting here talking about Semperit! We are outside the House. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But the work is too too!]] That's the answer we give you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To see how an industrial value chain is actually lost is, in my opinion, the wrong answer. You also complained that some of our representatives did not comment on Semperit. Well: I didn't hear a word about Semperit from the Federal Chancellor or vice chancellor! This is also a fact. You have complained about this, I note it as well, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The insurance of the health insurance fund has already taken place. I warn, however, that this measure will disband the occupational health insurance fund. That too is a very crucial point. I therefore recall the following: The previous government, Minister Farnleitner, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, has really taken every step, and Members here in the house have even boasted of driving with semi-trailers. That was an active approach to a problem. What are we experiencing today? – It’s good, it’s all right to try to help with labour market policies, but where is industrial policy conception for this region? Where is the approach that this value chain is not lost, but that, for example, through a transformation of the ÖIAG from a privatisation agency to a holding of interests for the employees there, for the region, for the industrial location of Austria, is found a solution, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen? Not social democracy, but your partyobmann told Donawitz that it was a museum that was locked up. – Today, the Styrian head of state says that this is the best industrial policy development. Ladies and gentlemen! It was also not social democracy, Mr Westenthal, which has greatly extended the provisions relating to seasonal eggs in this year and has even expanded the boundaries of the professionals in order to bring foreign forces into the country. Therefore, do not reject this as a missing policy, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President, where, for example, are the entrepreneurs at Semperit? Where are the entrepreneurs in the construction industry creating jobs? – A coordinated policy between the rulers, the economy and the workers is needed to achieve success. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, a resolution on Semperit is also being tabled by our side today. Is it enough for the construction industry, for example, to talk about more job flexibility? Is it enough for the construction industry to talk about work foundations? – It is the lack of construction contracts that have resulted in nothing going on in the construction industry and unemployment due to the decline in public contracts, particularly since September this year. Where are your actions? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the Semperit application?]] - I said he'll be brought in later. Listen, listen! - He's done. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's going to be crafted quickly! He's not finished yet!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Where are your measures against black entrepreneurship? – This is where the coalition partner ÖVP, who, although there has been a unanimous Council of Ministers decision, has prevented the implementation of the Black Labour Anti-Law Act. Here the new Coalition FPÖ/ÖVP, which, despite several announcements, also from the Vice-Chancellor a few weeks ago, actually prevents something that threatens small and medium-sized enterprises as a risk, which threatens jobs as a risk. Take an example, too, of the Vienna Regional Finance Directorate, which has set up activities quickly together with the AMS! Finally, put in place what black jobs are actually fighting, what black entrepreneurship is actually fighting! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has now been made clear, for example, at the last economic summit, that it is at last desirable to increase the flexibility of working time and to transform collective contractual membership into business agreements. – Minister of State! The original vote – and you know that! – has provided a clear answer: The majority of Austrians wish the collective agreement as a legal standard, and not the operating agreement as a poorer example. We are not always talking about flexibilizations, which in fact have only one meaning: to extend daily working hours to increase the burden and not to improve the employment situation! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What Austria needs has also become so clear in a study by the European Union published in autumn. Austria is not above the EU average in any technological growth area. The fact is that this is due to the lack of research commitment, but also to the lack of ownership structures and group structures in Austria. We need more core shareholder function in Austria, we need more research activities in Austria! If we are already considering labour market policies, I ask you: How do those concerned feel about Semperit, those involved in the construction industry when they hear: At the time of the union, you can retire with the full pension claim at 55 years of age, but you have to work longer – although they have no chances –?- Oh, my God! We expect the Federal Government to be equal, to be equal for these employees and not to add to a different age level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When we referred to the lack of high school places in the summer, social democrats felt that this problem was not at all present. I am glad – this Federal Government too learns – that it is now in the concept – unfortunately only for the next year, unfortunately a year too late – that the number of high school places is doubled. Why Have She refuses to do this this day? – That's what those "thanks" that are at your door today. What we need is investment in infrastructure. What we need is investment in revitalization, in thermal insulation. What we need is to convert the ÖIAG into a holding company. What we need is industrial value chains in the country and not the sale of Austrian industry, ladies and gentlemen! Let us act for those concerned and not for statistics!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e7743	Mr Dr. Khol spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e7767	The previous speaker said that the Austrian People's Party had rejected a unanimous Council of Ministers decision to combat undeclared work and had not implemented it in Parliament. The right thing is that we have refused, in violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, to give civil servants the right to interfere with the small housekeeper without a judicial order through house searches and arrests.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e7798	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e7819	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr President, as you have said, you have now submitted a motion for a resolution from the SP Group to the good order. A first calculation of this motion for a resolution has shown to me that this would create a budgetary additional burden of between 55 and 60 billion schilling. This is economic policy, as you understand it, and it is not economic policy as we do it. These are recipes from yesterday, which means new debts and does not serve anyone, Mr President Vergestnich! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, events as last in Semperit are extremely unfortunate. It has already been mentioned. I would like to be prepared to follow the motion for a resolution of the government groups and to act actively here. We are not only standing, as you, Mr President, with Semperit's employees, but we are also doing something for them. A foundation for up to 1 000 semi-employees as the first step, the possibility of being securely able to obtain unemployment benefit, secured to be retrained for new qualifications, that is one. The second is to attract the location of Traiskirchen to the future, especially to bring medium-sized companies there. I will present a programme in the next few days and will do so together with representatives of the country of Lower Austria because the concerns of Semperit employees are ours, and we, ladies and gentlemen, are acting! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Although I very much welcome and represent the concept of an Austrian nuclear shareholder where it is feasible and reasonable for industrial policy, I do not think that your further proposal, Mr President Verzellnitsch, is useful, namely to introduce Semperit into the ÖIAG as a holding company, to make some pleas from the ÖIAG. That would certainly be the wrong approach. ÖIAG has become a holding company of very, very attractive, very, very competitive, a holding in which the OMV, the VA Tech, Böhler Uddeholm, the excellent steel producer VOEST Alpine are gathered, and this is what it is supposed to be. We are proud of this, that is true of industrial policy. A conversion of the ÖIAG into a plea holding would be the wrong way, even in the face of Semperit. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President Vergestnich has also raised the accusation that the Federal Government, in particular I am the Minister for Labour, would approve seasonals without number. I approve exactly the number of seasonals for our tourism – this tree, the winter season is running very well – which is in agreement with the trade union representatives and workers' representatives at national level. It is unfortunate that such a consensus could not be brought about at the federal level. This obviously works better at national level. Mr President, if Mr Vergestnich holds that this government is too little in favour of infrastructure, I must say to him: The opposite is the case! You heard it from the Federal Chancellor, I may mention the cumulative number: In the years 2000 to 2004, the Federal Government spends no less than 175 billion Schilling on infrastructure in the area of road, rail and construction. In the five years before, from 1995 to 1999, it was just 122 billion schilling. So this is an increase of more than 50 billion schilling. That's more than remarkable, that's plus 43 percent. I certainly do not allow one thing to happen, ladies and gentlemen, namely, a sickening of the investment and industrial site in Austria, even though Semperit is of course a significant drops of advertising. BMW invests 7 billion Schilling in Steyr at the same time. Almost simultaneously, BMW awarded Magna one of the largest orders ever to Austria for the production of the BMW X 3. In addition, I can tell you that the Federal Government's operating agency, the ABA, can state that in the two years in which this Federal Government took responsibility, no less than 8 500 new jobs with 225 projects were brought to Austria. This does not say so much as a figure, but it is significant that in these nearly two years more billions of investments, more jobs could be collected from the ABA to Austria than in all the years of its existence since 1983 to 1997. And that's quite remarkable, High House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It was also remarkable what Mr Gusenbauer has presented to us in the field of labour market misinformation. He is no longer in the hall, but I still have to deal with what he has said in terms of unemployment. So we regret every unemployed person – we fight for every job – but one must give the truth already Austria is still one of the top countries in Europe in terms of low unemployment. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Leikam]] [[Call the SPÖ:Ready time! Talk time!]] 4 per cent is unemployment, which is about half of the European average of 7.7 per cent. I would like to write this difference to Mr Gusenbauer in the main book.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e7878	Mr Mag, Minister of Finance, is speaking as the next speaker. Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e7899	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciative Members of the Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. The year 2000 was an economic record year for Austria – whether it was growth or employment, whether it was exports, or whether it was the number of business start-ups. This federal government has wisely used this economically very, very positive year 2000 to do its homework. We have consolidated the budget and not only reached the zero deficit in 2002 but already in 2001. Zero deficit is no longer a new debt, ladies and gentlemen, and that cannot be wrong. This is a very, very important point of a stability-oriented, sound financial policy that we have achieved in a very short time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We are better than Germany, we are better than France, we are better than Italy, we are better than Portugal, and we are not only better at finance, but we are also better at employment and growth in our country. This success and financial policy are therefore so important because they are essential for us to be able to obtain a discharge in the future. We make a confession to this because we know: This is important for our population, which is important for the location Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, 2001 is a year that has led to an economic weakening, and of course we must take it seriously, as Martin Bartenstein did. Of course, we are fighting for every job, and that is why the government groups have wisely tabled a motion for a resolution concerning Semperit, because we want to act very concretely for the workers there, because it is important for us to open up a perspective there because it is important for us to secure existence there. That is why this initiative of the government groups and the action of the Minister for Economic Affairs should be strongly supported here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take up what has been said. Mr Edlinger said: Let's compare: What was earlier and what is now? Ladies and gentlemen! In 2001 – in the year when the opposition is repressing, the country wants to speak badly, to be sick – we have the following facts: We have a record number of employees, we had 3 137 000 employees in November of this year. This is a record in Austria, there has never been more employees in Austria in the history of the Second Republic this year than is the case this year: 43 000 more than at your time in 1999! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have a weaker growing but a growing gross domestic product. We have around 200 billion Schilling more added value this year than you did in 1999. We have more Schilling in exports than in 1999. We have more than 34 billion Schilling in investment in Austria than in 1999. We have a new record in Austria this year with 24 000 newly founded companies. And we have decided on an increase for pensioners, as it has never been in the last five years. In 1997, they left 0.0 percent for pensioners. [[Abg. Edlinger: We have given too much, the Federal Chancellor has said!]] We increase by 2.9 percent for 54 percent of pensioners. This is a full of inflation compensation – 6.1 billion schilling more for pensioners! We can be proud of these achievements of the companies, the economy, this federal government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a way approved by 15 finance ministers, 15 bank leaders, by Austrian economic researchers Kramer and Felder. They all say that this is a good way a small country is going in a difficult economic situation. Because we are making a wise policy because we are making structural policies because we invest more in research and development, more in education, more in infrastructure than ever before, we are creating better data against the trend that is showing down because the economy in America is going down in Japan. Austria is better than most of the other countries because we set smart accents with a modern economic programme: 12.5 billion schilling more next year for research and development, for education, for people in this country. This is our policy, ladies and gentlemen: stable, smart financial policy, improving the location, investing in people and thus opening up new opportunities for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e7961	The next speaker was Mr Schwarzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e7981	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Those who follow this discussion today must gain the impression that the opposition wants to make Austria bad at all. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Look at the difference!]] Everything is going to be negative, even international studies recently published, such as the PISA study on the training of our young people, are being reversed by Mr Öllinger. This PISA study shows that Austria has the best level of training in all German-speaking countries. Austria is on the 11th. ==References====External links== Job. So if that's not a success, I don't know. It should also be recognized that successes have been achieved not only in this year, but already over the past few years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Deputies! In the past, many of the "small" pensioners have always criticized the fact that the pension increases are made percentage by percentage, giving pensioners with a high monthly pension a large increase and pensioners with a small monthly pension a very small increase. The current scheme provides that pensioners with smaller pensions receive the full remuneration of the inflation rate. [[Abg. Riepl: That's not true!]] One thing I didn't understand: At the last plenary session, we agreed here that the billing of the fictitious disbursement for compensation should be reduced by 1 per cent, i.e. the pensioners whose pension is below the compensatory allowance rate of 8 400 s will receive a higher pension by 1 per cent. That is what you have rejected, but it has also been rejected by the Greens. These are pensioners who have only 5 000 or 6 000 S pensions and receive a compensation allowance. Here you have rejected this increase by 1 percent. But thanks be to God, ÖVP and FPÖ have the majority in this House, so that these pensioners from 1. January 2002 will be able to enjoy an additional increase of 1 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today the measures taken by the Federal Government for economic recovery. We are undoubtedly in an economic crisis, but this is the case worldwide. On the basis of Japan and America, it has also captured Europe, because, of course, we are economically interconnected with these countries. Austria now has a large foreign trade area and therefore also feels the economic situation in the other countries. Member of the Gusenbauer, who usually only gives his speech here, but then is very little present in the plenary during the debate – obviously he is very interested in this discussion at all – has a wishful dream here. He dreamed of a red-green government. If you transfer the example Germany to Austria, you have to say that the Austrians are well advised if they do not choose a red-green government in the future. Unfortunately – I say it quite openly – we have 200 000 unemployed. Every single unemployed person is too much, and we have to take measures to reduce this number. But Germany, which is 10 times larger than Austria, has twenty times as many unemployed as Austria, has already exceeded the 4-million limit. With 80 million inhabitants 4 million unemployed, this is much worse than in Austria, which is in itself the double-cut of Austria. The Minister of Finance has just mentioned it: We have never had as many employees as we do. We have more than 30 000 employees than in 1998/99, although at that time we still had a budget deficit of 60 billion schilling. We do not have a new debt in this year and still around 30 000 jobs more in the annual average than two years ago. Mr Edlinger – he is not present in plenary now – should think before. In 1999, Austria was the final light of all 15 EU countries, which was the net deficit. Two years later, under a new government, we have already managed to stop making new debts and that Austria is finally in the European medium-term with a view to budget creation. . So I mean, in this area, achievements have already taken place. I hear that the tourism industry in the west of Austria in particular complains very strongly: She needed more labour, but she didn't get it. That is, we will have to consider whether to rethink the rules of availability, because it can't be that hotel operators can't accept reservations because they lack staff and the hoteler has to be behind the sink himself. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have well-trained, diligent citizens in Austria. The PISA study, which I have already mentioned, has confirmed it and has also shown that Austria is primarily in the expenditure on youth education of all the countries under investigation. My colleague, Mr President, has already mentioned this: In the professional competitions, our young citizens, our apprentices are ahead everywhere. That is to say, we have very well-trained young citizens, young workers, young entrepreneurs, and we should therefore not be sickened by this country. For the first time in this year, we have exceeded the thousand-billion limit in terms of the value of our exports. That is, more than one third of our total value added has been spent in other countries. So we've shown that we're competitive. Allow me to call an unwarranted witness, Professor Helmut Kramer of the Wifo, who was born on 5 May 1989. The following statement was made before the CA Forum on December 2001: "Austria has kept itself quite well, but it could have been better if some notary weaknesses had been consistently eliminated. The Federal Government has taken some of it, because it was not at all different, as well as because belief has led it to get involved. Progress in fiscal consolidation has to be recognised despite some legitimate objections. Consolidation should therefore be ensured against the risk that it could early give rise to new undisputable and costly desires." The following is the very significant phrase: "The two previous consolidation phases in the 1990s – those of 1992 and those of 1997 – were followed by relatively strong increases, especially on the expenditure side. The federal deficit increased between 1992 and 1995 to more than double (...) and increased by more than a third from 1997 to 1998 (...) without any compelling economic reasons." – So far a very unwarranted witness. Not long before my speaking time is over, to agriculture. Austria's agriculture also plays a very important role in securing jobs. [[The speaker put a taferl with the inscription: "Every five. Work depends on our agriculture" on the speaker's desk.]] Every fifth job in Austria depends on agriculture. This is about jobs in agriculture itself, but also in the remote or downstream areas for which agriculture produces raw materials which it then processes. The 2000 Green Report also shows that agriculture has invested 45.4 billion schilling in 2000 – and in this year it will not be much different – of which 15 billion shilling in structural investments and 13 billion shilling in investment in the machinery sector. There are, therefore, a lot of jobs that are being created by agriculture. And if one considers that 1 billion schilling of investments – a value of experience from the past – can be secured about 1,000 jobs, then it is already recognized that the economic budget or the economic measures with more than 12.5 billion schilling of additional resources can very well help to reduce unemployment again in the coming year, because all measures are being put in place to create better secure jobs in this area in the future. We are grateful to the Federal Government for this and wish you this success in the interests of all Austrian citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e8053	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e8074	Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I have already experienced quite a lot of requests in this House, myself, but only the one who is now present is a very special sugar, Dr. Khol! It is clear that no government group is bad with its own government and government team. But in view of this degree of consecration, I really ask you: Faith Don't you think you'd rather save it for the three-king day? So much incense and myrrh – that is, I believe, not appropriate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Above all, not only do I ask myself the question: Are you not talking to your own federal government at all? Are you only talking more about such applications with her? If it is true that you must call on your own government to say for yourself that you consider the way in which the government has taken the right course, and you call on the government to continue this course, I think that you might as well clarify it in internal discussions! I think the Austrian population is enough to judge for itself what is good in this country – and there are a lot of things, there are a lot – and what may not work well, but you do not need to communicate this to the Austrian people by means of a resolution. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No idea of sharing violence!]] – Yes, this has something to do with parliamentarianism, Mr Westenthaler, but this request does not have much to do with it. Unfortunately, no! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But let us stick to your request, because you stress in this proposal that more should be done. They say: Yes, everything was right and good! – Some people know better, but you say: This innovative policy is to be continued. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes!]] - "Yes!", Mrs Fekter says quite convinced. – Well, I invite you, Mrs Fekter, to look at us – and let us speak figures and facts: What is Austria's position in the European comparison with regard to innovation? [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] I take this from a very recent study by the European Commission. The European Commission presented the European Innovation Scoreboard 2001 in October, which looks as follows – but you probably know it anyway –: [[the speaker holds an article entitled "Sweden is the most innovative country in the EU" and a graphic in the height]] These are the European states – America and Japan are still added as two important industrial states – and Austria is not quite the end of it, but Austria is clearly below average in terms of innovative potential. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's why we do something about it!]] – And you want to continue? Ladies and gentlemen! I would say we need a turnaround towards more innovation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: One billion for research!]] Yes, Mrs Fekter, I just ask myself the question: What do we do about it? It's known, as I think, now: Without social investment, without a policy to compensate for injustices, that is, without poverty reduction policies, that is, without anti-discrimination policies, that is, without correcting the injustices that exist on the labour market at the expense of women, at the expense of people who have any handicap, you cannot really enforce innovations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think it was even this federal chancellor or at least a federal chancellor who once posterted: Without women, there is no state to do! – How true, how true! The potential of women, who often produce a large number of innovations, often also appear as founders, is low in this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! They have mentioned all the statistics in which Austria is relatively well cut off. But you have not mentioned with any word that Austria is concerned with equality between women and men – and this is an important factor, including economics! – in the meantime, under this Federal Government, which has become absolute final light in Europe. I think this is a shame! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since you are always happy to quote sources, I am reporting on a very up-to-date communication from the European Commission, in which criticism of Austria is practiced. You have always heard the criticism of the budget deficit. The message: High deficits should not be!, you have apparently internalized, that has arrived with you. But with exactly the same intensity, you were repeatedly criticized for discrimination against women – only recently again. I have a communication from the Commission on 30 November. November. It says: The Federal Government should be more concerned about the considerable difference in labour market participation between women and men and the wage gap between women and men. – The fact that Austrian women deserve the most in Europe compared to their male colleagues is not only a shame, but also an obstacle to the innovative potential of this country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is precisely from this point of view that the establishment of the childcare allowance, which does not include any aspects of the abolition of this injustice, should be critically assessed. That's where you should've tied up! But I have not heard a word about how you deal with this European criticism. Another issue is important to me today, and I am referring to the remarks made by my previous speaker, the agricultural speaker, Schwarzenberger. He mentioned that agriculture in Austria is still an important economic factor, directly and indirectly. – Yes, that is true, Mr Schwarzenberger. Not only is she important as a producer of food, but Austrian agriculture is also important for the leisure and tourism country Austria. Austrian agriculture is also important to preserve the Austrian image as that of a viable, healthy and kind country. And you mentioned in this your "consecration proposal", in which you have listed all the good statistics, yes: According to World Competitiveness Report 2001, according to you, Austria – colleague Khol nodds – has the first place in "Quality of Life" worldwide. I also think that this country is vital and loving. And I would have expected you to say some word on the current issue of BSE and on the question of how you will deal with it now and how, above all, you would like to ensure the importance of health and safety in the food and agricultural sector for the Austrian image. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We can discuss this in an inquiry!]] The competent Federal Minister appears to be back in any crisis talks. This case is becoming more and more a criminal case, and I think it would have been appropriate to say something about it. The animal protectionists, the environmentalists have been warning about these potential dangers of confusion for years. Now all this has happened, what we have warned about – and there is no word from you?- Oh, my God! This is really a negligence that seeks the same! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're on it at this point and you're about to miss the train of time. I just got myself, today, on the 12th. On December 11, 19 a.m., something was taken out of the Internet, which the Austrian Farmers' Federation still has on its homepage. ÖVP and FPÖ will decide tomorrow to release medicines, so that in future lay people – farmers themselves! – give medicines to animals, they may inject them. [[Abg. Oils: Incredible!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: To control the veterinarians!]] I think this is crazy, especially with reference to the quality of life and health! That's really a hit! Take this from the agenda, ladies and gentlemen from the government parties! And what does the Chamber of Agriculture say about this? She only shudders at the veterinarians – as she is appealing to the opposition here today – because we have no BSE case in Austria. Thank you, Mr Schwarzenberger!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e8317	Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e8342	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic has made the claim that the Minister of Social Affairs would not have said a word to the Members of this House on BSE. – This statement is false! [[Lively calls to the Greens:Here! Here! Here!]] It is true, rather, that the Head of Parliament is in constant contact with all the health speakers of all four parliamentary parties, that there has been a corresponding information yesterday, and that Mr Bundesminister Head has informed all political groups without delay and at any time of this case and of all the measures that have been taken, including the satisfaction of the people and of the delegates.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e8414	The next speaker was Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e8435	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Significant for the quality of action and for the differences in the quality of action between opposition and government parties are once again the tragic events, if I may say so, around semperit. While the government parties have already given thought to putting a suitable proposal on the table, Mr Vergestnitsch has announced: We will quickly put a stop to a request and then put it sometime in the course of the debate. – I accept a judgment on this quality of action: Once 'Very good', the other time 'not enough', Mr President Vergestnich! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, you experience an exchange of feelings when you observe the last events. On the one hand, Semperit closes the gates – regretful, but with accompanying measures from the government, thank God! – and on the other hand BMW invests 7 billion Schilling in the Steyr business location. These are the Kneippkurn of daily politics: one sad, the other hopeful. [[Abg. Ollinger: Chrysler!]] In both cases it is about large farms, in the case of Steyr thankfully. But it is also about the discussion: What can or may the state do to enable the economy? This is the eternal dispute between the planning economy and the market economy. Today we have heard some of the social democracy about the fallback in the planning economy, and on this subject, as far as the past and the future are concerned, I cannot quote any less than the Karl Renner prizewinner Norbert Leser, a well-deserved social democrat who says: [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic closes his hands over the head]] The historical merits and laurels on which the SPÖ believes to be able to rest have been overstretched and consumed. They are no longer sufficient to obtain a mandate to resolve the problems of the present and the future. – That’s it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr President, only half a sentence on the "consumer" plea: If you call on us today to act quickly in Traiskirchen, I must tell you: In the same way, you would have at the "consumer" argument. You can make your ÖGB millions liquid and save the "consumer" instead of letting him go down the stream, ladies and gentlemen! - That's one. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr President, with these failures you have also contributed to the fact that today we have an over-dimensional concentration in food retailing, i.e. the past has caught you up, once again. Ladies and gentlemen! You tried to revitalize the class struggle today, and a call from Mr Riepl at 10.59 a.m. was once again a kind of revelation in this direction, when he said: "Think to the people and not to the economy!" – This sentence is pure class struggle, ladies and gentlemen! We are thinking about the economy and the people and there is no contrast here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] One of the most important parameters of a positive economic policy is probably an offensive debt-debt policy, a policy of debt and not debt-making, such as this "Rudi Ratlos", called Mr SPÖ-Edlinger, has pre-exceeded in the past, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that socialism, the socialists have never been able to deal with money, not even in Norway, where the "black gold" sputters out of the earth and out of the sea. Even there, the Socialists have not been able to start anything with the money. And where there is no one, you will not even throw out the present – unfortunately God! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You from the left look for salvation in regulations for the motto: "From the cradle to the Bahre, forms, forms!" - That's your motto. On the other hand, we are in favour of reducing red tape, and in this respect Vice-Chancellor Dr. Susanne Riess-Passer has been able to find out today: 21 billion schillings are saved from the bureaucrats. This is the best contribution to a positive economic location in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] So we face this reduction in debt to the socialist dogma: The old red debts are to be doubled – according to the motto: "Sold's Mei' G'wand, I'm going to heaven!" – Mr Cap! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Even if it's the Nestroy year, we shouldn't let that happen! Entrepreneurs will harass you all over the place. They are entrepreneurs-schiker par excellence, for example in the euro changeover, namely the fact that in August of this year you disturbed an entrepreneur in front of the Kadi, who rounded up 33 groschen at a sample purchase of 3 000 s. There you, ladies and gentlemen, have broken a flood of paper without measure from the fence. That costs tens of thousands of shillings of tax money! But on the other hand, you were on it and on it, in the Chamber of Labour, where before October this year you still increased the rental prices for your premises by more than 10 percent, which is to do with Euro shortly before the award obligation, ladies and gentlemen. Where you yourself are involved, you are price drivers, and on the other hand, 33 big employees and entrepreneurs are being disturbed in front of the Kadi. Your economic policy is really no longer sustainable and more than class-warring, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is cold and heartless, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, while we are thinking about the middle class, in view of the great danger of "basel II", where negative credit framework conditions are to be created by the EU, that we are thinking about making ourselves strong in the relevant bodies and in the European Union in order to act for the middle class. I therefore allow myself to submit the following motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker, Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Haigermoser, Mr Auer and others, and, Mr President, to present it accordingly in his key dates, with permission. Mr Vergestnich, when we deal with a subject, this is not limited to reading headlines, but we are dealing with content, ladies and gentlemen. That makes us different from you once again. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The purpose of this motion for a resolution is to achieve the following or to ask the Federal Government: "The Austrian Federal Government is therefore invited to represent positions in the relevant committees, working groups and other forums of the European Union dealing with the topic "Basel II" in the interest of the Austrian economic structure, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which also take into account the Austrian banking structure. Especially for SMEs, their credit supply needs to be secured in the future, and the new requirements must not result in a general increase in credit conditions and thus in economic and political distortions of competition." Ladies and gentlemen! This is an important guiding principle of this request, and I would also like to ask you to jump over your shadows and to contribute this support to Austria's economic location. There must be no discrimination on the part of smaller institutions in the banking sector. That is why, for this reason, the proposal we have tabled here today is also an important one. Maybe last but not least, after I had to listen to the Rapid President again today,... – Sorry! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Perhaps it would be better for the President-in-Office of the Council to be Rapid and not Edlinger, because Edlinger has already led the state finances into the mush, and I hope that Rapid will not be "geling" – under the lead mark – ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Mr. Edlinger! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vergestnich! It is good for the economy and for this location Austria that the Minister of Finance is called Grasser and not Edlinger. It's good that the chancellor's bowl is called a caster. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] It's good that the vice chancellor Susanne Riess-Passer and not Madeleine Petrovic is called, ladies and gentlemen. A middle-right government is good for Austria. A left government is bad, as one unfortunately needs to know God in Germany. Glück in this country with this reform coalition and not with the Red-Green experiment!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e8567	I declare that the request of the honourable Member, Haigermoser, Auer, which has just been presented in his key points, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e8679	The next speaker was Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e8700	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I can only say, Mr Haigermoser, that was not your day today, because as small mistakes as at the end of the speech would not have happened to you earlier. But that can happen. And that's why I think it would be good for you to be a little milder in your criticism. Ladies and gentlemen! You can speak as much as possible – today the government groups and the Federal Government have tried. Of course, one can make this attempt of good speech, but one simply does not get over a few facts – and one of them is simply the tendency of rising unemployment to differ from a declining trend in the European Union. That is where we should try to go a good common way. A dramatic development is particularly evident in the construction sector. We have reached the highest figures ever in this sector – there are already more than one hundred thousand unemployed. That is why the Federal Government is now faced with this because it was simply not able to counter it in time. Ladies and gentlemen! In the summer of this year, for example, the Social Democrats have already proposed a transport infrastructure programme of around 300 billion schilling and priority lines and funding. At the time, we sent this programme to the Federal Government, also the Federal Minister, but then no longer heard of it. If the Federal Government had taken this request seriously, you would have taken the measures at the time, then you would not be in such a precarious situation today. If the government had not only responded with arrogance and arrogance at the time and if you had realized the Social Democrats' programme, there would be a much better employment situation in Austria than we currently have. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A few days ago, in a recent debate, I asked Mrs Forstinger what concrete projects she is now planning to put on her feet quickly, to order unemployment to fall mainly in the construction sector. The answer was disappointing for me. It meant that the construction industry itself was guilty because it had built these structures, so it should also look at how it came out itself. Ladies and gentlemen! That is a sad answer – and a sad truth! – but that’s the way it is. In reality, this government is still living, particularly in infrastructure, on the programmes and investments of the old government, which are now in realization. We absolutely do not know what new things will be. Federal Chancellor! I can't spare you this accusation: You are too late for your economic summit – and this has also been stressed by the Green Group. Federal Chancellor! You know who's coming too late is punishing the story. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another thing: This Federal Government is not only pursuing an economic policy, but also an irresponsible selling policy of the Austrian companies abroad. Given the liberalised markets in Europe, public ownership is becoming increasingly important for the enforcement of economic investment in key enterprises. I can only appeal to this government: Sale Not the rest of the Republic's silver table now! I have a little hopeful chatter, because in the last issue of the "Economic Sheet" there is already a public discussion about the opinion of President Prinzhorn, who is now presiding over, and Mr Bartenstein, the Federal Minister, who takes a different position and believes that key enterprises in our country should also be held by the Republic, because this country also needs corporate headquarters, and this country needs competitive companies with its own research facilities. This country cannot only be governed by the patterns of the paper industry, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Mr Westenthaler said earlier that we would not have finished or slept a resolution on Semperit in time, then I can only say: You're in the government, you're in government here, and you've filed an alibi application. What is stated in your request would have to be done by the government, even without being "Westenthaler" under it, because if it did not, this government would be a poor government. I do not think you need those in the government with your requests! We shall submit the following motion for a resolution to the company Semperit and the staff of the company Semperit concerning: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Großruck: This has been very successful in the past!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Too late! You're too late once again!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Talk time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Voices To this request for the benefit of Semperit's staff!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e8805	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mrs Vergestnitsch, Mr Eder and Mr Genossinen, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Forstinger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e8829	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Estimated colleagues of the Federal Government! High house! The importance of investment in infrastructure has already been confirmed several times today – an opinion that is very uniformly reflected throughout this House. As an infrastructure minister, I am very happy about this because we have a basis on which we can build together. Not only now, but also in recent years there has been a special investment in infrastructure and a lot of what has been neglected in decades of transport policy. I can say that so clearly. Not only has the more than 100% increase in infrastructure, rail, but also a special funding programme for the road sector been adopted – this has enabled us to pick up very much in some areas. As you know, infrastructure policy and infrastructure planning are to be seen very long-term, and therefore it was high time to develop a coordinated infrastructure programme once and for the first time here in Austria. I would like to thank all the Members who have worked to achieve the goal that by the end of the year, not only the priority series but the programme is essentially, and we will present the details in January next year. I can therefore accept all the accusations that have come, for I ask you: Why, ten years after the fall of the Iron Curtain, do we have such a high demand for food in the east and in the south? 300 million Schilling investment needs – that was quoted from a SPÖ programme that was presented. Regardless of the fact that a clear change is taking place in your transport policy, which is very clearly consistent with our strategies, it is clear that much has to be picked up. We take it into account: not only a clear boost in investment, but also increased, improved procedures, efforts in the reduction of procedures, but also in the involvement of those concerned. We have different competences in the areas of communities, the countries and the federal government. The Federation sets out the strategies. But it is also important that those who are concerned – including, especially in the field of land use planning, many mayors, but also many at the level of the countries involved in the development of this plan – will help to complete and finally realize decades of stories about individual projects, creating stability and good conditions for a stable economy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In addition to investing in the infrastructure, however, the use of the same is also essential, and I ask myself: Why are we left behind in the rail infrastructure sector, in which hundreds of billions of schilling have been invested, capacities that are not used? – The answer is simple: Because there has so far been no competition, as there has been only one that could use it. We also need to make improvements, because the tax money invested in the infrastructure sector must also be able to be used in the service of all. There must be increased competition, and we must also manage to get even more goods on the rails. But it is very important for the economy, for development, for future development in this country research and innovation. Never before has so much money been made available – once again – for sustainable investment, for sustainable support for development in this area. The essential thing is that we are voting all our programmes on the strengths of Austria. We have these programmes in the field of non-university research. I refer to the K-plus centres, a success story in the relationship between business and business, which can be very active in small and medium-sized enterprises, which also quickly implement them. Even stronger impulses need to be put in place so that further investment in research and innovation can be taken into account accordingly. In addition to the research funds, the service is very important. Many small and medium-sized enterprises do not have their own research departments, nor do they have little opportunity to move in a new matter in research and innovation. Therefore, there will be a point of contact in our ministry, a so-called one-stop shop, where we can not only obtain information about funding programmes, but also exchange of experience in order to be able to use the know-how accordingly in order to give further impetus to those who also allow us to reach the quota, because the small and medium-sized enterprises are very essential so that we become a research and innovation location in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e8895	Mrs Gehrer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e8924	Mr President. High house! I listened very carefully to Mr Eder's speech. He said the government would like to talk as much as possible. – Ladies and gentlemen! We call you numbers, data, facts. What you're doing is a bad step, a mess. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What you are doing is depressing – and this cannot be the task of a forward-looking policy. [[Abg. Gaál: This is the truth!]] [[Abg. Edler: 20 percent!]] What surprises me, too, is that the opposition speakers no longer believe their own former experts. If a Mr. Professor Kramer and a Professor Felder say that education, research and development are the site advantage for Austria and investment in these areas the important measure to promote the sustainable economy if a Professor Dr. Frisch, Chairman of the State Debt Committee, says that it would be completely wrong to make new debts again, then I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Why Believe You don't like this expert? – We take these expert opinions very, very seriously and also implement them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The importance of long-term policy is reflected in education policy. Since 1995, schools have been consistently employed in Austria – on new curriculums, on the technology offensive, on the improvement of quality, on a new school partnership – and now we have the result: It is true that we have made these further developments in schools. And I wonder, Why, Mr. Ollinger, do you not give this success to the teachers? OECD – these are the 31 most important industrialized countries in the world – says: In this respect, we are in the front third, we are far, far ahead of Germany! And I thank all teachers who have contributed to this success with their work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Also interesting is what experts and experts say about why the Austrian school system has this success. They say that in Austria, school is taken seriously, in Austria, education is taken seriously, and in Austria, performance is also required. – This is the secret of success! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I can promise you one: We will continue to resist the danger or the challenge of introducing total schools in the future, because it is clear and clear: A differentiated, gift-oriented education system with all the help for more socially weak, for less power, is the way to the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to this long-term policy for education policy, which is now bearing its fruit, there are numerous measures which are very important, which are set by the Austrian Federal Government. I was at the Council of Ministers for Research on Monday in Brussels, it's the 6. The EU Framework Programme for Research has been decided at €17.5 billion. We have achieved that at least 15 percent of the funding for thematic priorities for SMEs will be given, that small and medium-sized enterprises will be particularly encouraged – in the EU as we do in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have also set new priorities in the field of research: 7 billion schillings have flown into research, over 9.1 billion schillings are intended for research and education in the economic recovery programme. – These are positive signals, these are positive measures! Ladies and gentlemen! In the future, we will not take on board the Ural concept of opposition to directly promote jobs with taxpayers and thus achieve lucid results. [[Abg. Edler: Your Greißlers are increasingly shutting down! That's a fact!]] We will continue to finance new knowledge, new technologies and highly educated employees with taxpayers' money in the future. That's the future! This is a guarantee of good economic development, of job security, of the good future of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9032	The next speaker was Mr Tancsits. [[Abg. Edler: The pretty one!]] The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9061	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If one follows the debate and the statements of the opposition, one would have to believe that an international economic crisis from the USA, the stock market collapse after the 11th. September, all of these would be things that would not have an impact on Austria; on the other hand, it would be the government policy that would have caused this economic crisis, as opposed to the rest of the world. – I don’t need to judge that on and on my own, because it is possible for everyone to count on five fingers that an economy with about 8 million inhabitants, who – thank God – is export-oriented, cannot decouple from international development. It becomes more interesting then with the prescribed recipes that have actually triggered the crises of the eighties and nineties: public debt, indebtedness at the expense of the next generation and those who enter the profession later. - It won't be either. Then, in a government catalogue, measures are presented – and there are several ways of responding to them again, namely: not responding, rejecting and actively controlling where possible. I would like to point out this on the basis of examples, and above all I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, of the SPÖ: Where were you on the evening of the 21st. November, what did you do that day? That was a plenary day on which we presented and voted housing law laws here, which – and this is not an invention of the government, but rather a scientific investigation – will bring a sustainable building impulse of up to 6 billion schillings a year. I can tell you: You have refused to understand for any reason that probably few of you can. [[Abg. Edler: At the expense of the employees!]] You, Mr Edler, have rejected this important investment impulse, but today you stand here and complain about unemployment. – Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Edler: For good reasons: At the expense of the employees!]] This is a policy that is questionable! This government has managed to increase women's employment despite economic crisis and labour market problems, despite the necessary adjustment of the retirement age, to protect older workers. But you're going to ruin where it goes! Mrs Silhavy, who was just born, for example, the SPÖ's social spokesperson, managed to push a 58-year-old employee, just past the provisions of the law's protection, out of working life. [[Abg. Edler: Last-class! Last class!]] [[Ah-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who was that?]] This is social cold, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Gusenbauer, who is no longer in the hall because he is not interested in this debate, has said – I have to go into it; Mr Gusenbauer has not lost his tone, although I am not so sure that it really benefits him –: As far as employment is concerned, social democracy has mastered every economic crisis in the past. I don't know what social democracy he's talking about! If I compare – quite unspectacularly – the employment figures of the last ten years and the unemployment figures of the last ten years and do not use any growth accounts, then I can clearly see that in the year 2001 we have more than a hundred thousand employees in the annual average and ten thousand unemployed than in the nineties. That was not a question, ladies and gentlemen: Making debts, reducing employees, creating more unemployed people, as we still want to see your recipes from the Museum of Socialist Social and Economic Policy today. I think that the economic programme presented by this Federal Government is the right answer for intelligent action.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9157	Mr Brosz spoke in favour of an actual correction. I ask you to correct the Rules of Procedure accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9181	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ms. Federal Minister Gehrer said in her speech that PISA confirmed the correctness of an early-distinguishing school system such as the Austrian one. This is not correct because there is no appreciation of school systems in PISA. It is true that if you look at the results, you will find that the country leading in Europe, namely Finland, has an overall school system and that there is no particular early selection. Rather, it is true that all experts believe that it is necessary to draw very differentiated conclusions from PISA, because exactly what you are doing here – a school system derived from it and to say it was wonderful with the results – is not true. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is a speech!]] It is also true that the experts call on them to draw conclusions from them and to focus on the better countries. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Master,...!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Hello!]] – That’s the fact about PISA.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9260	The next speaker was Mrs Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9282	Ladies and gentlemen! If I lend my ear to the speeches of the representatives – representatives were very few so far – of the government parties, this evening I feel like under a Christmas tree in the recession budget. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The size of the boxes, the Christmas packs is defined. [[Abg. Kiss:... go to sleep, Mrs. Colleague!]] The shiny paper and the beautiful loops around it have been presented in detail. But if it's going to be unsealing, you'll find a maximum of some sugar cotton in it. – We all know how sugar cotton affects: Ferries in the teeth, does not taste really good, fills up a lot of space and is not worth much. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With your pension you can afford a lot of sugar cotton!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] For example, if you were looking at the Khol, Westenthaler, which I now had opportunity to read, which is now trying to define the contents of these packages, these economic packages, then you will find a very careful formulation here, especially in the construction area, and I would like to ask you very much: Why do you have to get in there in such a way? Here's what it says: The "try of favoring construction projects" in the construction area is to be made. So for the attempt alone, it would really not have required this application, because there are mature projects! These construction projects, ladies and gentlemen, I can now also tell you, because if you don't enter the packages, then the opposition will have to be defined, which are the needs for economic recovery in Austria. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Fischer.]] Let us stay in the area of infrastructure – I want to do it first and foremost now. Building-ready infrastructure projects – and I am now primarily talking about public transport, i.e. rail – exist to such an extent that their implementation for transport management would even have excellent positive effects. These are all small measures which, for example, concern improvements in support walls, bridge renovations and the like more in the area of rail, which, with relatively little use of resources, have a very positive impact, both in the area of employment and in the area of driving services, which could be better achieved. [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: Where? Tell me where!]] [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: Where should this happen?]] [[Further calls to the liberals:Where? Where?]] For example, if you ask for specific projects, you can look at the railway project in the Gasteinertal, which in turn was very, very far back, if I take the first information about the general traffic plan seriously. [[Call the Freeman: Which project do you mean?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Fallent and Dr. Grollitsch.]] You would have had a very positive economic impact if you had these improvements in public transport, in rail infrastructure, and above all you would have to take into account – and this is especially at this time when the workplace situation is getting worse – far more positive effects on jobs than, for example, in the construction of motorways. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You could also make your announcement that small and medium-sized enterprises are primarily benefiting from the economic package, because just like in the case of thermal renovation in the building sector, it is also the small and medium-sized enterprises that would benefit from it, and not the giants on the market who work with many machines and little human labour – which I am already at the second central point. One of these packages would have to include – as it has already proved itself in small cases – the climate protection billions – here massive investment promotions in the area of thermal insulation, in the area of building renovations. We all know – and you know it all from your federal states and from your areas – that in the field of public buildings, the thermal renovation is not yet where it should be. First of all, we could achieve an employment effect of up to 2 000 jobs per billion schilling used, second, the money bags of the users of the apartments as a result of savings in heating costs, and thirdly, the economy would be stimulated and climate protection would actually take place. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: Pack the climate protection billions into this economic package! Then you can set a positive boost for the environment, employment and the economy where something has proved to be successful, namely the implementation of climate change measures to trigger investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9416	The next speaker was Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9437	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Honourable Members! While we are discussing an economic package with many positive economic and job initiatives, the SPÖ is going into the role of the whiting and self-pity-filled opposition partner, who does not realize that a measure is being put in place here, which, despite difficult economic time, is doing a lot of positive for Austria as an economic location. But not only that this economic package has positive content, it is also a trend change for me: a turnaround from the SPÖ debt policy, from the "hole-to-hole" policy to a forward-looking economic and labour policy that is simply necessary in this country. We are also here in Austria in a conversion, namely in a state-political conversion from the functional state to a flourishing economic country of Austria. I think it is necessary that this is said to the SPÖ once in all clarity! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] To you, Mr Edlinger, I am still coming with enthusiasm, because that was a classic you have offered today. [[Abg. Edlinger: I think so!]] While the government parties are trying to secure employment and prosperity in Austria, the SPÖ is on the verge of taking a strong step backwards. She has understood this and doesn't even know that her dogma has now become "sleep in the pendulum watch" – "sleeping in the pendulum watch!" I'm telling you, too, why: As one of the first speakers in today's debate, Klubobmann Westenthaler has tabled a request for financial security for Semperit's staff. Only the third or fourth SPÖ-redner comes to the point that Semperit is still in existence, and shows here the intention that the SPÖ will at some point also make an application. – That's what I call "sleeping in the pendulum watch"! Such a thing would once have been unthinkable at SPÖ. At that time, she actively pursued labour market policy, and today: Sleeping, sleeping, sleeping – up to President Vergestnich, who could have learned a lot from his unfortunately deceased predecessor if he had been willing to do so. Then it wouldn't have happened to Semperit in this form. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Fink.]] In particular, former Minister of Finance Edlinger: He was the leader of the SPÖ's collective revelation silk today. A few wordplays of Mr. Edlinger: "The labour market service must save." - After bravo! I already know that in the SPÖ series the word "save" is an unword, but it is essential to ensure the economic location of Austria. The SPÖ is a party with solutions. – That really doesn't believe anyone anymore! They also claimed that we didn't care about people. – I can only tell you one thing: You didn't care about people in the last few years! There have already been examples of how bakers can be terminated within just one day. This has not interested the ÖGB President or the old finance minister Edlinger. Or: In 1997, pensioners had a 0.0% increase in pensions. 0.0 percent pension increase under socialist responsibility – you should not forget that so quickly! The SPÖ has never shown solution competence! An active labour market policy – not the management of the unemployed through labour market service, but an active labour market policy – is the best guarantee for a functioning economy in our country. If I remember that in the past era there has not been a semi-governmental or state sector in which a party political occupation has not taken place – I call as examples only Mr Streicher, Mr Draxler and other Mr Edlinger! [[Abg. Edlinger: The main association!]] Don't mix up! I've been listening to you, that's why you listen to me! I'm telling you one thing, I'm just calling two examples of the alleged Wreckwuzzis Draxler and Strings. [[Abg. Edlinger: The story with Mr. Draxler...!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Here you can say what you want!]] For themselves they were perfect wuzzis, because they collected millions of waste, but for those companies they were responsible for, and for their employees they didn't even touch the little finger! They were only important for each other to take advantage of the contracts and then eventually sometime with the amount of disposal – 71 million schilling in the case of strings! – to retire. That was your form of policy, which we strongly reject! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You will also believe, Mr President Fischer, that a Mr Sörensen at the AUA or a Mr Form Walde in the ÖBB does not have a decisive role to play in party politics, but the decisive thing for them is that they lead these companies and the employees concerned into a good future, because a good economic basis is also the prerequisite for a good employment situation and for a sensible family policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9558	The next speaker was Mrs Csörgits.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9592	Dear Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, Mr Gaugg, I can agree with you. [[Abg. Gaugg: Learn to calculate! Learn to calculate!]] You're running a conversion policy! They build around from the weak to the rich, from the workers to the self-employed. – This is your conversion policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The measures and proposals put forward by the Federal Government are undoubtedly not sufficient to combat the threat of recession. The reduction in economic growth and the sharp increase in the number of unemployed is also due to the tax packages of this Federal Government, which were undoubtedly very unsocial. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: You still don't know!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: How much do you deserve?]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Did the ÖGB pay you a calculation course?]] I would like to address the situation on the labour market, because I believe that it is vital to note that the number of unemployed has increased very, very strongly. There are many fates behind each unemployed person, and I am not enough to say that there are countries where the situation is much worse than with us. I want every unemployed person to be a unemployed person too much, because this is a fate that we must fight against with many, many measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You wanted to bring foreign labour to Austria!]] In November 2001, the number of unemployed rose by 32 000. At the end of November this year, 225,000 people were unemployed. As you grow, you simply don't say that there are mainly atypical relationships of service, which are unsecured, such as temporary work. This is only to be noted in connection with the increase in employment. But what does the Federal Government do? – No further funds will be made available to the AMS. The funds will be frozen. The apprentice offensive, which has been set, is undoubtedly a small drop on a hot stone. Instead, discussions are being held on the strengthening of the rules on the availability of the unemployed. We do not need any stronger rules on visibility, we need more skills for our unemployed so that they can be reintegrated into the work process. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They also praise it so much and write it on your flags that it is necessary to adapt the workers' and employees' rights. But they conceal the conditions under which this has come about. In connection with the very strong tax burden, which undoubtedly also means that mass income has not increased sufficiently and that people simply have to save because of it, I would just like to mention a few examples. This led to a de facto reduction in the amount of redundancies, a higher tax on holiday compensation, a higher tax on compensation for redundancies, higher taxation of post-payments on grounds of labour law processes and procedures, and the taxation of accident pensions. That's your policy, that's your redistribution policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How does that look in practice now? – In the case of an accident pensioner with a gross monthly of 20 000 S and an accident pension of 3 000 S, this Federal Government eliminates 1 098 S. That's how this policy looks! [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Let me also say: The child care allowance, which you so highly praised, is also a mogel pack. The young families will still be concerned about what kind of family policy you are doing, namely a totally wrong one, which once again goes alone at the expense of the workers in that country and only leads to the fact that women have little more opportunities to find their way back into the work process after the family break. Yes, this is the new government policy! With the little ones, with the weak incomes being saved, there is cast down, and the great, the wealthes of this country, who still receive tax gifts. Yes, you strengthen the strong, but forget about the weak You always need to improve their situation!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9727	Mr Dr. Niederwieser spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9751	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I am making an actual correction because it is precisely not possible to leave false reports by the government bank that way. The Federal Chancellor has spoken of 7 billion Schilling of research funding that has been spent and of 7 billion that will continue to be spent. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: In addition!]] In addition, exactly! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor even specifically knew that 70 percent of these 7 billion have already been granted. That's what she said here. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] She said "forgive", Federal Chancellor; I wrote this exactly. I'm putting this right: At this time – I am referring to an information from the Research and Technology Development Council – 1.9 billion schilling were required, 1.7 billion schilling were released from the Ministry of Finance and actually passed on. That's the right number: not 7, not 4.9, but 1.7 billion. – So easy to deal with these numbers!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9796	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9817	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already irritated me a little, when the former Minister of Finance, Mr Edlinger, who is now no longer there, meant in his final sentence that this Federal Government does not create jobs, but unemployed. – That was a rather unqualified sage – "thump" I cannot say here that would bring me a call of order – for a former minister. Not only do we have a different understanding that the government does not create jobs, but the enterprises – the government only creates framework conditions; and we will not be able to clear this different understanding today, because between you and us the class struggle – it is rather the following: I would have agreed to Mr Edlinger that he knows that we have an employment record, that we have seen an increase in employment, that never before have as many people been in employment as we are at present. Of course, we also have concerns about unemployment. That is not a question at all, that is why we are discussing here today. Mr Eder has tabled a motion for a resolution calling for an end to the sale of the Austrian economy, the ÖIAG companies to foreign countries, and I think that this is a bit bold when it comes to social democracy. Who sold Semperit to Conti? Who did Bank Austria get hurt by the Germans? These were not really economic fame sheets, but that was social democratic economic policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We'll do it differently! We used the good economic situation in 2000. It was very wise that we have rehabilitated the budget, and it is right that we implement the reforms quickly, because the structure of the budget looks like a brake. We ensure that the economic engine is running – admittedly a little slower at the moment: and that is why the Federal Government has presented a comprehensive economic recovery programme. We have not just given a money injection, as is always demanded by the left hand, but set a bundle of measures, because the economic engine has several driving waves: Exports, technology, tourism, construction and consumption are just a few. Not all of these areas are currently equally affected. As mentioned above, unemployment in construction is our biggest child of concern. The construction sector has an disproportionately high share in the Austrian economy, and in the past, a money injection has always worked relatively well as a drive for the economy, especially in housing and civil engineering, in infrastructure measures. That is why these things have already been mentioned several times today. We know that, and that is why we will set up initiatives in the construction sector. But that alone is too little. We must also do something structurally, because our economy is gradually changing towards service, technology and export. That's where Mr Petrovic led the innovations. It is true that we are too little in innovation in Austria, and that is why this Federal Government has initiated a massive technology and research programme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, let me point out that I am confident for the next year, and that is because one of the economic trends is the consumption of Austrians. With the child money, we will support the Austrian families with 9 billion schilling next year. You will also have this money at your disposal. This will be a strong impulse and will prevent private consumption from falling. Young families spend their money. They don't have it so thick, they can't afford so much. That's why it's well arranged if we give the money to these families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With this additional 9 billion schilling, the economy will receive an invigorating boost next year, and together with the remaining bundle of measures in the economic recovery programme will – I am sure – retain our prosperity and our good international position.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9887	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9908	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! I am grateful that Minister Bartenstein, the former Minister for the Environment and the current Minister for the Environment, is sitting on the government bank, because they could be in their hands – could! – billions of people who can truly be led into an effective objective of both employment policy and economic policy, fiscal policy, budgetary policy and environmental policy. My colleague, Mr Lichtenberger, has already mentioned the need not only to reduce heating costs by means of comprehensive thermal insulation measures, but also to generate appropriate impulses in the construction industry. The employability of these billions cannot be achieved by any other funding or investment billions. If one billion is invested in funding, it is an investment volume of 4.53 billion, which is triggered by it, and this is then employment-related in an order of approximately 4,000 construction workers, with a thousand employees in the thermal insulation industry to be added. I have, so to speak, a comparatively very, very favourable means – I do not want to describe it as a means of miracle – in the hands of how I can use existing billions within the meaning of the Kyoto objective, in the sense of the economic economy, the recovery of the construction industry and also in the sense of environmental protection and the saving of heating costs. That is why I have prepared today a request which I would also like to make so that it does not remain with the government's non-binding promises to make a redeployment in the promotion of housing, but rather is called a completely declared number and a completely declared order is given. [[Quoted print version removed]] I deliberately call this 5.6 billion schilling because they have been scientifically proven because they have already been the request of the Federal Government, at least in the form of the Climate Change Advisory Council, and because they are there. Please, that's the great advantage! We have the housing aid amounting to 24.5 billion per year. Mr Molterer, you yourself were at an event where you asked for the construction industry to rise to the Barricads and to raise a loud voice – I think I quote literally – so that you will be able to promise the national finance officer or the national housing officer or the national heads of state the promise and the contract that billions will go in the direction where they are most efficient. You need to hold back in this direction, and we'll give it to you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can give this even greater support even with a consent to this request. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: That can't be true!]] I'd like to suggest it to you. Above all, I would like to draw attention to another event and to the social aspect of this agreement when, at last, there is a commitment to the construction of housing in the direction of renovation and not to further easing the commitment of purpose, namely to road construction. You know exactly, the countries have some plans to convert housing funds into infrastructure. Infrastructural measures are called road construction, and there is the employment effect of 600 per billion invested. Mr State Secretary! I do not need to assume that there are worlds in between, whether 600 for a billion or 1 800 respectively, if I charge the investment volume, even 4,000. I mean, there are worlds in between, and there you have to put on the lever massively, and you don't even have to be dispensed with 4 billion. This has to be packed – for the financial compensation in the future: In the case of housing aid, 5.6 billion annually are to be invested in this area. The fact that it is necessary also shows a very well-founded study by the SRZ, which examines the housing infrastructure. It notes that in the buildings built between 1945 and 1980, half of the heating costs could be saved, half of the energy input could be saved if the heat insulation was carried out in a sufficiently comprehensive and ecologically oriented manner. We got that on the table, you got it in the drawer. Please see that the countries are finally investing in this direction, because they are giving them the money – without any obligation. You can read it, because your financial officials already complain that they have given it away without any obligation. This is your biggest game capital, and you have to get it back now, also in favor of – I say now finally – the pensioners. They're coming to the People's Procuratorate. There it is shown that heating costs increased by 6.5 percent, while pensions may have increased 1.1 percent, the consumer price index by 2.5 percent. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: 2.9 percent!]] Or it's 2.9 percent. If it's more, it won't do anything. The difference is clear, and I think it really pays off to invest. For everyone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e9988	The next speaker is Mr Egghart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10009	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! "A worldwide recession manifests itself, which Austria can't escape. Political action and measures are the command of the hour when the Austrian Federal Government assumes its responsibility for our country, the Austrians and Austrians." – That is the first sentence of the SPÖ resolution, and that is exactly what this Federal Government is doing. Today, when I listened to the statements made by the SPÖ party president, Gusenbauer, I wondered whether he was not almost pleased that there were some bad economic data, only to do something to this federal government, which is very, very good. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Who can think like that?]] It would really be appropriate to think first and foremost of a common Austria and not to make any political games that are carried out on the back of the Austrians. Social democracy in particular has no right at all to speak in any form of economic downturn and similar things. I should just like to remind you that over the last ten years, social-democratic leadership in the state-owned industry has reduced more than 90 000 jobs and has put 100 billion schilling in the sand. If we had not remained in the raw materials industry if we had already gone the way in new innovative products, we would have had much more jobs and a much higher value added. We must also remember that this Federal Government has succeeded in creating the necessary framework conditions so that we currently have the highest employment situation in this Republic. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Just think of the Steyr drive technology you used to wear. Especially in the case of Steyr drive technology, the need was given – and at that time we liberals insisted on renegotiating and entering another 700 million schilling in the interest of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If it is said that we are promoting the construction industry, then I can only remind you of what it looks like where the Socialists have the say in this Republic. In the municipality of Vienna, for example, there is the most expensive metro construction, enforced by many scandals. At the time, we had committees of inquiry in Vienna's Landtag, which were also supported by the Greens. There has been a housing policy on the green meadow, there have been enough resources, but no infrastructure has been created on the other hand, and ghost cities have been created. The very decisive revitalisation of our cities has been completely forgotten. It would have been possible to create a large amount of value, especially here the entire construction and construction industry could have been occupied. Together with the ÖVP, the liberals have also succeeded in restoring the budget after the Fiasco of 30 years of socialism to a zero deficit in a short time. Child money and administrative reform will continue to contribute decisively to budgetary improvement. I should also like to point out that we have made a request to secure all the things that are essential to us. There will be a sustainable safeguarding of pensions, we have room for investment in infrastructure, research and technology. In international comparison, we have an above average number of business start-ups. And above all: The decisions of the Federal Government achieve a promotion of our economic location. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, the Federal Government has succeeded in ensuring the security of the social state of Austria
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10059	I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Moser is sufficiently supported, in a sufficiently factual context with regard to the subject matter of negotiations and therefore also to the negotiation, or in a further follow-up to the vote. Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10083	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. It has also been said several times in today's debate on the BSE case, and I would therefore like to give you a precise explanation of the whole process from my position as the Federal Minister responsible for Health and Generations. ==References====External links== It was the result of the slaughter of 50 bovine animals in a slaughterhouse in the district of Zwettl in Lower Austria on 1 December 2001. On Thursday, 6th. December, I was informed by my Bundesanstalt in Mödling at 14.56 a.m. that a priorics test in one of the 14 cattle to be tested has been positive. A second priorics test was then made immediately and at the same time two reference tests were carried out. Thus, a classical Western Blot investigation and a second study of immunohistochemistry have been initiated. The second Prionics investigation was on Thursday, 6th. It also showed a positive outcome at 10 a.m. on December 2001. I should also like to draw your attention to the fact that the first reference test was also positive the next day at 14.58 a.m. This positive reference test was the immunohistochemistry study. The legislation in Austria is clear: The existence of a positive rapid test according to Prionics and the taking of a corresponding reference test – either immunohistochemistry or classical Western blood – means a positive BSE outcome. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that I have acted decisively, which you can judge when you look at the scenario. I can repeat it again. Thursday, 6 December, 14.56 a.m.: reporting a BSE suspicion with the first priorics test; in the evening at 10 p.m.: the second priorics test positive. The next day, the studies in Mödling continued in a corresponding form with the result: Immuno test positive and in the evening at 5 p.m. also the classic Western Blot positive. We informed the public immediately after the positive prionics tests and after the presence of immunohistochemistry that we have the first disease case in Austria. At the time of the information and at the time of the submission of the tests, the following data were available and recorded for my Bundesanstalt in Mödling: the name and address of the holding of origin, the earmark number of the suspect animal, the name of the slaughterhouse and the date of slaughter. The AMA Rider Database research revealed that the animal, which was marked on the sent tube with the earmark number and was also recorded in the protocol, was recorded on the 18th century. He was born in October 1999, and was 25 months old at the time of the slaughter. I therefore meant that this low age raises some questions: First: Why is an Austrian bovine animal, if the average investigation range is more than 30 months, being studied at 25 months? Secondly, Why does the slaughter of such a bark occur in a normal routine slaughter program and not as a separate emergency slaughter. Therefore, since the Federal Institute in Mödling did not allow for further clarification of these facts with the existing documents, I decided to keep up-to-date with the use of the medium-sized Federal Administration of the Federal State of Lower Austria, which, by the way, was properly and on time, as the protocols result, kept up-to-date and agreed – initially by the Deputy Veterinary Director Dr. Roßmanith and then by the competent Veterinary Director Dr. Karner, who had been taken back from a spa stay – therefore Deputy Veterinary Director Dr. Roßmanith first started the surveys in order to clarify this question. We have found a number of questions open to us and have therefore, in accordance with our provisions, also taken place in order to clarify these questions. Several non-legislative states were identified during the visit of the slaughter operation in the area of the Gmünd District Headquarters. It has therefore been expressed by the gentlemen present on the spot, both by the Lower Austrian and by my authorities, who have doubts as to whether the sample in the tube, the head of the animal and the animal body are congruent in the appropriate form. We have therefore begun to investigate the brain sample, the animal body and the head of cattle, which has been marked accordingly. In these investigations, we then found that two of the 14 heads found in the slaughterhouse had been skinned contrary to the statutory guidelines and the earmarks were not found. We have therefore made the same thing in this case, which Switzerland also made according to its official veterinary reports of 30 June. In a similar case this year: We have had the whole area examined genetically and the animal skin detected on site by the official veterinarian Dr. Schwaiger has undergone a genetic inspection. These genetic studies have taken almost 50 hours to demonstrate the final results. In this case, I should also like to express my sincere thanks to my officials for the fact that he has also carried out the relevant genetic engineering studies around the clock in order to carry out this procedure quickly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I do not think it is obvious that they are prepared to carry out these investigations properly and controlled for two days. We were therefore able to determine the allocation of this animal in today's form. It is now clear from the genetic analysis that the animal is not the 25-month-old cow from the first farm of the district of Milk, but a 70-month-old bovine from the now blocked holding of origin in the area of the neighbouring district in Lower Austria. I think it is particularly important to take account of the entire period of time. Therefore, I can repeat this presentation here grossly modo again: Battles during the day on the 5th. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== In December, reference tests and public information; finally, doubts about the identity and assignment of identity occurred on Saturday, 8. December at 6:10 p.m. – This is particularly important because, due to the first reason, the holding has already been blocked by the Lower Austrian veterinary authorities as well as the retention of the cattle for 14 months – as provided for in the law – from the blockage and from the notification of the positive BSE case in the original form. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to point out that the review of the 14 animals showed that a 33-month-old bull was no longer in slaughter. It was immediately demanded by the local authorities and by my veterinarian that this animal be attributed. This has also been reduced to the whole and reimbursed to the original slaughterhouse for the genetic tests, as shown by the weight controls carried out on leaving the slaughterhouse. ==References====External links== In addition to the cow with the positive test result, five Jungrinders were slaughtered from the now locked operation. These five Jungrinders arrived on the night from 5th to 6th. In December, before the first concerns appear and before the results of the first samples, collected and placed on the market from the slaughterhouse. These animals have been collected completely legally, because there is neither a retention obligation under the European Regulation 99 nor under the Austrian Animal Disease Act for animals under 30 months of age or less than 24 months if the BSE investigation is requested. This has to be said clearly here. ==References== On 9 December, when this fact was communicated to me by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, these animals were recovered, with the agreement of the regional authorities already a day earlier, namely on 9 December. It took place at 10 a.m. on December 22, as indicated by this fax. Therefore, these five young animals, although no legal handling existed, were also reduced with the exception of 200 kilograms. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important for me to note that, from the beginning of the slaughter, and even when all the official organs arrived on the spot, i.e. both the official veterinarian from Zwettl and my official, it was found that the risk material had been properly slaughtered in all categories. I also have a copy of the original protocol, as found in the veterinary medical institution in Mödling. [[The speaker holds an image in the height at which ten squares can be seen, one of which is stretched out.]] Here you see that 10 samples are recorded in this protocol, with the ninth sample clearly and clearly stretched out below. This is the sample that we have reached in that protocol, which has now proved to be the positive sample.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10181	Mr Federal Minister, I have the following request: As we are talking about the economic statement, I assume that, of course, meat exports and the health of Austrian livestock stocks are of particular importance and can be discussed on this issue. Nevertheless, I am looking to put the emphasis of the statements not on the purely medical side of the studies, but on the health of the animal stock in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10196	Mr President, I should also like to say, in the light of the Rules of Procedure of the House, that the issue of BSE and its economic and health effects has been discussed several times in the course of the discussion, so that I can be comprehensible here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Since I have followed more than two thirds of this debate in the House and you, Mr President, have only taken over the Bureau very briefly, I ask you to take this into account in the appropriate form. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] I mean, it is in the interest of the public to get a clear understanding of the process before we talk about the corresponding impact on the Austrian economy. That is why I think it is important and necessary to put this forward in order to finally clarify the situation as it stands. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I want to make it short. On the basis of these inconsistencies – first of all to view an animal as an BSE animal that was too young; the existence of a list in which the now positively tested animal was clearly outstretched; the lack of the earmark on the head of this animal – I see it impels me to address a case-law to the public prosecutor in order to obtain comprehensive and properly clarified any criminal matters from the outset. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is of particular importance for the Austrian economy and for Austrian agriculture that this case is presented comprehensively from the beginning and until the end – until all the authorities involved have achieved their final results. For me, any doubts about information that is not correct and is not relevant to the state of things is a germ for me to say that in Austria the same conditions as we had them a year ago: a price decline, the withdrawal from the products, the damage to agriculture, the damage to the intermediate products of the Austrian economy, and thus a significant disadvantage to our economy as a whole. I therefore believe that we should have learned from the case in January last year. In an offensive way, the Austrian public must be provided with the available information of the Office. It is not here to beautify anything or to give a false impression. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr President. I believe, therefore, that it is particularly important – and I repeat this again – that all animals over 14 months old and in question, as they may be disease carriers, as well as in one case, as I have already said, a bull at the age of over 33 months from the time when it was known that it was no longer in the slaughterhouse as required by the law. They have been completely recovered and have been found under official control. Secondly, I believe that, on the basis of our plan and also of the findings that Switzerland has gained in a similar case, it has proved to me in the house that the positive BSE reports were complete, from the battle chain to the investigative body, both in the regional and in the federal authorities to accompany and make comprehensible. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it was also useful and important, even after the first doubts about whether a 25-month-old bovine animal could only be Austrian provenance of the disease carriers to bring such confusion into the calculation. I believe that the perceptibility, the speedy compliance with the disease plan, the successful recovery methods and the methods of testing by genetic engineering can calm the consumer down with the present day. The risk group was kept to the fullest degree, the risk material was properly slaughtered and delivered in all groups, and there was also a complete, genetic-based reduction in where the confusion happened, up to the farming operation possible and carried out quickly. I do not want to beautify anything here and add that such disease plans will need even more security in the future. That is why I decided to request a re-training of all the meat examination bodies in Austria. A broadcast was already made on Saturday, which was received from the Veterinary Directors on Monday. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that as we have the first positive BSE case, in the current disease situation, all colleagues on the ground must also point out that the disease plans and the corresponding blockages must be complied with in full and in general, as provided for in the law. I also believe that the meat examination veterinarians who are associated with me and on the spot are well advised to carry out these trainings quickly and comprehensively, as well as the official veterinarians who control them and the veterinary directors before them. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to draw your attention to a condition which may not have been properly appreciated in the public. On the day the confusion took place, there was also an on-the-spot inspection by a veterinarian who was checking on behalf of the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! As the EU is repeatedly argued that we are taking too little account of EU principles, I note that: It can be seen that, even if all the regulations of the European Union are taken into account, and if human error is over-checked, it cannot be ruled out. We therefore have to make the system so sure that, when human error occurs, by means of genetic follow-up studies, there is no doubt that identification and allocation of all samples can be carried out in court as well. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I should like to point out that, if I am properly informed, the inspections have once again taken the entire genetic engineering path and that under the supervision of the prosecutor, all samples of genetic engineering have been subjected to once again. These reviews have also led to the same result. Therefore, I feel entitled to say that we have the first BSE case in an Austrian cattle with 70 months from a farm with Austrian feed base and purchased feed of Austrian provenance or from sources that are properly and legally sold in Austria. The holding concerned was also able to provide a proper accountancy, which goes far back to the date of birth of the bovine animal. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that the following can be found for the public and for the calming of the market and the economic situation: The recovery actions were also successful where they were not required by law. The recovery actions were 100 percent successful where they caused legal infringements. On-the-spot eradication methods have respected the legal basis for risk material to 100 percent. The genetic engineering research possibilities have produced a full and true result in the case of confusion in our home. I believe that the most important thing in today's discussion is to be able to assure the consumer that it is safe and that Austrian products from Austrian farmers will continue to have high security in the future. I ask all Members to take this into account in their reports.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10326	Mrs Petrovic spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10348	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On Monday, the green club, in a letter to the Federal Minister of the Interior and to the Presidents of the National Council, suggested that this very matter of events – possibly also of the criminal case – be made the subject of a parliamentary debate around the first BSE case in Austria. That has been a repulsive response to us. It is undisputed that according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure Members of the Federal Government shall at any time be entitled to make oral statements at the meetings of the National Council on items which are not under negotiation. In my opinion, this has undoubtedly been such a statement, particularly on the medical and educational circumstances of this case. It is referred to in § 19 para. 2 GOG: "In such a case" – that is, if the member of the Federal Government makes use of this possibility at any time – "the member of the Federal Government has his intention to announce to the President, as far as possible, before the beginning of the meeting." I assume that this possibility to inform the President of the presentation of this declaration did not appear to exist because of the course of the events. I assume that there were also crisis meetings or special meetings on this morning. I see myself as confirmed when such a statement has been made, but I believe it is essential and democratic that this House also has the opportunity to talk about this statement. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It will also be in-depth and not just general debate on the possible economic aspects of BSE. Now, in particular, the representatives of the various Economic and Financial Committees have been reported on the list of speakers, but not those specifically concerned with the agricultural and BSE issues. Moreover, I believe it was clearly a separate and in itself concluded declaration by the Federal Minister. I therefore propose to make this statement by the Federal Minister on the subject of his own debate following the current economic debate and to make a decision on it by the National Council. Mr President, if If you still wish to discuss this with the members of the Presidency, I urge you to interrupt the meeting very briefly in order to give us the opportunity to plan when we will hold the debate on this statement by the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10410	Mr Dr. Khol spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10431	Ladies and gentlemen! I am of the opposite opinion in this respect. According to § 19 para. 1 Reported by GoG on behalf of the European Democratic Group. That was a speech in a ongoing debate. In the current debate, he can speak on this matter after, Mr Federal Minister, I heard your opinion when the President spoke to you on the television, and I have also followed the whole debate from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. on several occasions. It has even been required to say things in this regard. [[Abg. Achatz: Of the Greens!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The Greens have wanted it! Mrs Petrovic!]] Mrs Petrovic! I think that's a venire counter proprium factum what you're doing here. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: No!]] That is, you demand something – and if it is done, you'll beat it. In my opinion, this was a word message according to § 19 para. 1 GOG. That's where the Minister can talk as long as he wants. This cannot be said to this Minister too often, but he can still talk as long as he wants. [[Rejoicing]] He was not called into question because he spoke about the matter. § 19 para. 1 does not provide for votes. Iura novit curia – you will decide, Mr President!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10509	Mrs Mertel spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10530	Mr President. I'm not going to answer Latin, even if you're withdrawing the electricity from me. Of course, Mr Khol has the right to have the Minister, even without having been called upon, within the framework of § 19 para. 2 can answer. But your statement, Mr President, has shown us that the Minister did not talk to you about BSE in the context of the debate on an economic and growth programme – that is, a completely different item on the agenda. Mr. Khol, you missed this on the screen: The President said to the Minister that he could return to the matter. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Yes!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: He didn't say!]] The Socialist Group also sees a connection with the problem of BSE and has therefore provided an opportunity to comment on this issue and to debate it: We have requested a question. I see, like Mrs Petrovic, the importance of this issue. But at least equally important to us is the fact that we are now running the agenda item "Growth Programme for Austria, ensuring employment, prosperity and the future for Austria" and then, if so, I can follow Mrs Petrovic's request, we can lead the debate to BSE.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10585	Ladies and gentlemen! They have heard opinions from the various political groups. I will give you both my impression and my decision: In the course of the statements made by Mr Bundesminister Haupt, I have allowed myself to point out, after some time, that we have to debate a statement on the economic situation. I have added that I believe that the issue of BSE and the health of the cattle stock have, of course, an important function, and have at the same time asked the Minister to place the emphasis on this point. That is clearly what the Federal Minister has done. For me, therefore, there is no other way of doing things; it would not have been given business rules either. The next one will now be Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Talk to Molterer. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer rises from his place on the government bank.]] [[Abg. Mr Mertel: Mr President! A request has been made! Two even!]] I have just received a request from the Green Group, in which the Members who have been signed demand it, in accordance with § 81 para. 1 the holding of a debate on the declaration of Federal Minister Head within the meaning of § 19 para. 2 to be completed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Minister has the floor!]] [[Abg. Leikam: You gave him the word! What's going on?]] To this end, I would like to point out that both the Federal Minister and I have found that no statement according to § 19 para. 2 GOG is present, but an opinion of the Federal Minister was delivered in the context of the economic debate or the declaration by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor on this subject, so that this request does not have a business-regulatory basis. I will therefore continue the debate as provided for in the Rules of Procedure and now ask Mr Molterer to make his statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10650	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I would like to take the floor in the context of this economic debate because, of course, the BSE question is a question of consumer protection, but of course as a question of deep economic importance for the workers in this sector, for these farms in this sector and for the farmers in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to tell you what this is about. In Austria we have about 100 000 cattle-keeping farms. These produce a gross production value of around 8 billion schilling from cattle farming alone. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] The Austrian cattle industry is highly export-oriented. About 30 percent of the total production of Austria is exported, and of these exports around 50 percent are...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10676	Excuse me, Minister. . I ask the honourable Members to carry out any discussions outside the meeting room so that the Federal Minister can make his statements properly. [[In addition to the series of seats, several representatives of SPÖ and Greens meet in groups and hold talks.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: There's nothing right!]] Mr Fischer, I would ask you to carry out the discussions outside the Chamber. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: If "according to order" then please properly!]] [[The Members of Parliament remain next to the seats.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Can you briefly interrupt the consultations...?]] Mr Fischer, I would ask you to carry out the discussions outside the Chamber. [[Abg. Leikam: We will talk whenever we want, Mr President. Remember that! Unheard of!]] [[Embarrassed calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] No, I don't want to point out to anyone in the hall, but I ask you to pay attention to the following: The President, as you know, is responsible not only for maintaining peace and order in the hall, but also for the proper handling of the negotiations. If there are major discussions here that disturb the proper course of the sitting, then the President usually intervenes, as I am used to from you, Mr Fischer, when you hold the presidency. [[Abg. Leikam: I don't know about the Presidency!]] That is exactly what I am doing here, regardless of the political group or the position of a person. That is the job of the President, and that has to be done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Leikam: There has never been such a weak president! Unheard of!]] Mrs Dr Petrovic and colleagues! Please, this also applies to you, and also to Mr Dr. Eins. [[The Members of Parliament remain next to the seats.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign again.]] Mrs Petrovic, I call on you to reduce the noise level and ask you to take the places! [[The Members of Parliament remain next to the seats.]] Mrs Dr Petrovic, since you are obviously not prepared to follow the President's instructions, I hereby give you the call for order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I now ask the Federal Minister to continue his remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10848	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw the attention of Members of this House to the economic importance of animal production in Austria, and I hope that this attention will also be received from Members. Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, we have an export rate in the cattle sector, which is about 30 percent of total production. It is therefore of great importance to the Austrian economy as a whole, as well as to the Austrian economy. It is therefore natural to also use the economic debate to comment on BSE. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to once again clarify the facts to colleagues. After a total of 217,000 negative BSE rapid tests, there is now a case of BSE in Austria. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign again.]] That is not to be denied. It is a fact, and as unpleasant as it is, we have the obligation to inform the public fully. As Mr Haupt has pointed out, it is a 70-month-old bovine animal from Austrian breeding and an Austrian farm and, according to the AMA Rinder database, has Austrian ancestors coming from the same farm in the forest district. All feed found in the holding and seized for control has been examined. None of the feed has raised an objection. We visited this company ourselves and got a good impression of it. It is a farm well managed. The Federal Ministries for Social Security and Generations and for Agriculture and Forestry work closely together, the crisis plan has entered into force immediately, the control systems including the cattle database of the agricultural market Austria work in the interests of consumers and the economy. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] The comprehensive controls on bovine animals over 30 months of age remain the same, of course, as the removal of the special risk material in all slaughtered animals, as prescribed by our regulations. For consumers, therefore, safety is ensured, we do the maximum possible for that. Through the involvement of the public prosecutor, full transparency and complete information is guaranteed. We do everything we can to keep the domestic market stable and thus the economic situation for agriculture and the meat processing industry stable. We also call on all parties involved to ensure that exports continue to function, which are a backbone of the Austrian cattle industry. We ensure that there is help for the farm, a compensation payment, so that he can continue his economic activity. On the way to the quality orientation of agricultural agriculture, it is clearly and unmistakably held. I would like to thank all those involved, including the public and the media, for having been very responsiblely reported on this unpleasant event, the first BSE case in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We can guarantee you that we do everything we can to ensure the safety of consumers and ensure the economic backbone of the Austrian cattle industry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10929	The next speaker is Mr Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e10950	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Recently, statistics in Austria published the figures on Austrian agriculture, in particular livestock production and its importance for the foreign sector. We can read in detail the importance of this area to the Austrian economy as a whole, and we can see the overproduction of both beef and pig, but we can also see those areas where there are shortages. Therefore – and I would also like to take this opportunity – it is natural to discuss this BSE case, the possible damage to the Austrian economy, to the Austrian farmers, but also to Austrian consumers. Mr. Federal Minister. I would like to thank you very much, on behalf of my group, for your behaviour with your officials and yours, for the attempt to solve this crime in Lower Austria without any difficulty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the liberal and the ODP representatives.]] When discussing this BSE case and the possible effects, it is not about discussing whether the feed now fed on the farm is okay. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Rather, it is about finding out which feed was fed on this farm three or six years ago – the cow was 70 months old. [[Abg. Großruck: Do you remember what you ate three years ago?]] I think it is worrying when it is stated in the media that everything has been all right in the feed sector. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! At that time, not only domestic feed was sold by the warehouse cooperatives in Austria, but also feed produced abroad. The Austrian expert Budka has clearly stated that infection is only possible via feed. And we should discuss this. In the specific case, it would be necessary to clarify whether a milk exchanger was used in the cultivation of calves at the time, where such a one was purchased and which feed of that commercial holding had been fed at the time. To clarify specifically is of course also the question – and I absolutely agree with the Federal Minister of the Interior in this – as it could be possible to exchange the samples. Was it really so that there were too few veterinarians in the slaughterhouse that day, or was it simply human failure? Or was there even something else behind it? [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] But it is also about the question: How could the two earmarks disappear? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Take a look at the report by the EU's controls on BSE measures in Austria. There is the 1998-2000 report, and there is the new 2001 report, and it is noted by the inspectors that there are shortcomings in the disposal of specified risk material, and that other Community legislation is not complied with. Mr Bundesminister, Federal Minister Molterer, Minister of State, Head of State! We very much expect that, in the light of this scandal, these shortcomings will also be clearly explained in the public. [[Abg. Hornek: This is scandalization!]] However, we also expect - and I am very clearly saying this - that it is clarified to what extent and to what extent Community legislation and national rules, dear colleague, are in force. – have not been kept in this slaughterhouse. [[Abg. Hornek: Scandalization!]] I'm really asking you this! We would like to discuss this in an open debate with Mr Bundesminister Haupt and Mr Molterer, because it is about – and I agree with both of them – to signal the consumer that meat purchased by Austrian farmers is safe because we have effective controls. [[Abg. Großruck: Mr Maier knows that too!]] However, if the checks in the slaughterhouses do not work, my honourable Members and agricultural representatives from the ÖVP, then we will have a problem. As an opposition, we will show this – and I say this very clearly – in concrete terms each time and discuss it in public. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What are our conclusions for the time being? This is an issue which we have already addressed to Parliament. We think that agricultural resources law generally requires the introduction of sampling and revision plans; in the food law, there is that, in the feed law, there is no such thing. We believe that the comprehensive tests – and I have taken positive note of the relevant signals of the Federal Government – must be continued. The ban on animal meal must also be ensured at European level. We also expect sufficient personnel and equipment to be ensured by means of equipment in the Federal Offices. In general, however, we also expect – and this does not only apply to veterinary law, it does not only apply to food law, but also to agricultural means law – that the deficits existing in the framework of the indirect federal administration will be eliminated. Mr. Federal Minister. We're here on your side. We believe that the major problems of control are in the field of indirect federal administration. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying: The Socialist Group is expecting a complete clarification of this case, a public debate on it, and it is also expecting that the existing deficits, as demonstrated by the Federal Minister of State, will really be eliminated.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e11054	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e11075	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to talk about business in itself, but the statements by the previous speakers suggest to say something about BSE from the point of view of the economy. Mrs Petrovic and Mr Maier: I would recommend you pay attention to the choice of words. We want complete information from the economy, but we do not want scandalization, and the word "criminalisation" is exactly what we do not want in this matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] On the contrary: The economy very well trusts Mr. Federal Minister. We have responded very responsibly, and we believe that precisely because of this, despite this case not weakened, we will be strengthened in this situation, both in the export sector and in the trade and production sector. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! BSE has come from abroad, which has already been pointed out today. The economic situation is also significantly affected by foreign relations due to our relationship with other countries. In this context, we have already noted several times that two, three interest-rate reductions have not led to what was desired, namely to stimulate a recovery of the economy. Why? Because experts see the problem of the present situation as a reason for the significant disruption of consumer and business confidence. You know it very well yourself: It is true that economies depend on moods, on confidence, that the capital market reflects the expectations in particular, and that is why – only because it has been addressed here – one has to deal with it very carefully with words such as "recession". Everything you say about the opposition towards exaggeration, towards de-motivation, contributes to the deterioration of our economy from expectation, from the mood. On the other hand, the government, I believe, has very realistically assessed the situation and has also drawn the corresponding consequences. We cannot prevent the effects, but we cannot create our own economic development in the sense of an upturn in the economy with our own strength. What we can do, however, is to weaken negative effects and reinforce positive trends. In this context, I have noticed some very positive things that we have long called for from the economy, for example in the field of research and development: that there are no longer just allowances here. Allowances have a disadvantage: Exemptions do not help those who do not make profits, so allowances do not help young entrepreneurs in particular. In the field of research and development, there is now a premium. The same applies to education: a premium. Mrs Petrovic, you said today that we are so far behind in the innovation ranking in the EU sector. This measure – free-of-charge and corresponding premium – is exactly the right approach to bring Austria forward accordingly in this area. We see this very positively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A second point – and I also see this symbolically for a particular attitude – is: We have often been famous with this – even as an economic representative, I do not want to take advantage of it at all – that of four business start-ups three foundings are successful. If you look at America, you'll find the exact opposite. If you go there with a first foundation, a first project to a bank or a venture financing company, you will experience that you probably do not carry out the project at all. We therefore now have in this government programme the "reasonable failure" of an entrepreneur inside, so that a bankruptcy or a bankruptcy that is rejected due to a lack of wealth is no longer a reason to act as an entrepreneur. This means a change of mood, which will encourage many people to act a little more risky, innovation-loving in economic life. And because this has been addressed several times, including by the government: However, I already have a problem with notice periods. The poor baker has been strained several times today, in which there is only one day, or others. Do you know what reason this has in the labour market, ladies and gentlemen? – This is so necessary from the operational events. In the bakery area there are very difficult conditions – night work and early rise. It's already happening that someone says: I don't like it anymore. And then the entrepreneur has to disconnect. This has a very important economic background. The same applies, however, to the construction area: If anyone has a cuneiform worker and no more orders, do you want to give them a five-month notice? Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore necessary to take a very careful look at these measures, which are really cost-effective. We have calculated that despite adaptation measures this could be 10 billion schilling. This should be an economic activity programme! I would therefore ask you to take care of it in the implementation. Finally, to the point of view: Ladies and gentlemen! If you think of a commuter from the Mühlviertel that he is commuting to Linz every day, it must also be reasonable that a unemployed person from Linz is commuting to the Mühlviertel beyond St. Martin, which is not possible according to the current legal situation. And that is why we do not fight against the unemployed, but simply want to create better employability. In this sense – these were just a few examples – the government programme is well suited to set Austria-specific activities in order to set the right course for economic recovery.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e11169	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e11191	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with Mr Mitterlehner when he says that the economy should not be sickened. At the same time, however, I am not of your opinion if you think that you can make them better through health prayers. The fact is that the declaration made today by the Federal Government is more to be described as a PR-gag: Specific measures and steps to the benefit of the workers, the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria are missing, and that is the mistake, ladies and gentlemen, that we are blaming you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I will show you a lot from the example of the leisure and tourism industry – I could bring you a lot, but time does not allow me. Let us look at employment policy: At the end of November, there is an increase of 3.8%, 3.8% unemployed more than last year. That's really 49 000 workers. And I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, what your next big mistake is: Instead of providing employment, you demand more seasonal eggs year after year. But you get involved in contradictions: Once, Minister Bartenstein says: Yeah, more seasonal eggs. The Secretary of State says: No, no seasonal eggs at all. Then she revises this opinion, Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, corrects her a little. I am therefore quite right to say: Those who stay on the track in this confusion are the workers and the entrepreneurs. If you don't believe this, I'll show you a headline that can be read in a newspaper in the region today: "Failure of the labour force: In the Pinzgauer gastronomy is fire on the roof." Ladies and gentlemen! On a second essential point, which I would like to address: Basel II. I'll tell you in advance: You have tabled a motion for a resolution, which has already surprised us a little. However, it has previously said that since Basel II is such an important agreement, there will be a joint action by government and opposition, for we too are aware of the importance. We have therefore expected you not only to start talks with us, but also to make a joint motion for a resolution. What you have proved to us with your solo entrance is that you are not even in the worst interest of including the opposition in your considerations. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the right way! We will nevertheless vote in favour of this motion for a resolution Böhacker, stupid, Haigermoser, Auer, but we will also tell you – and I ask this from this point of view clearly and clearly – that the Federal Government must submit a progress report to Parliament within the year so that we can see and understand what you are actually doing in the area of Basel II for Austria, for SMEs in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Apply and vote!]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer once again to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Edlinger, Mr Vergestnich and Mr Genscher on the growth programme for Austria – ensuring the future, prosperity and employment and explaining to you this motion for a resolution, which is already distributed, on the most important points. The National Council intends to decide on the following: The Federal Government is invited to develop a growth programme to ensure the economic location of Austria, to ensure our future, employment and prosperity in our country, and to implement it immediately, in particular through the following measures: 1. Fair distribution strengthens growth: Reduction of wage and income tax by 30 billion schilling. 2. Temporary reintroduction of the investment exemption. 3rd. A comprehensive infrastructure package. 4. Improving the investment structure in favour of innovation. 5. Offensive for research, development and education. 6. Unify safety and flexibility: Strengthen active labour market programmes. 7. Stop selling the ÖIAG operations. 8. Use EU enlargement as an opportunity for growth for Austria. 9. Stability funds for small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen! Returning to the debate on the economy in Austria a short sentence on Basel II: They know what that means for the wealth of small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria, especially in the field of leisure and tourism. If you do not take the appropriate accompanying preparatory measures, a wealth of these companies will be pushed into insolvency, we have the big successor problem, and unfortunately, as the Secretary of State has already said, a very large part of the offer will break away. No one in this house wants this, so we ask you: Put in place the necessary measures!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e11256	The motion for a resolution by Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Edlinger, Mr Vergestnich, Mr Cots and others, which has just been presented in his key points, has been sufficiently supported, is in sufficient substance and has been presented in writing. He's on trial with that. I shall, of course, have him distributed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or have already done so. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it will also be annexed to the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e11648	The next speaker is Mrs Papházy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e11669	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The economic package implements important economic policies of the government programme. The objective of this Federal Government's economic policy is to strengthen Austria's economic location and thus to create better opportunities for life and work for everyone. Our Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser has already said it in his 2002 budget speech: The new quality of finance is most evident in the offensive policy for education, research and development as well as infrastructure. 12.5 billion Schilling more in 2002 for research, development and education means a multiplier for the performance of Austria, a multiplier for the Austrian economy. Investments in education, research and development are investments in the future of our country. The economic package is part of the educational offensive of our Federal Government. Among other things, the Economic and Social Package offers a broadening of funding opportunities for research and development, an increase in the amount of education, a doubling of the number of places for high-school students, a promotion of third-party funding for university institutes and the financing of temporary posts for professors and research assistants to expand international strengths of individual faculties and universities, to name only a few. The importance of educational institutions is measured by the importance of graduates in the economy. We need top-trained employees in Austria, and we need top-trained entrepreneurs, because they are small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the Austrian economy. Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrerhat pointed out the advantages of Austria's location in the field of education, research and development. Austria is expected to participate in international competition as an educational country in the future. International experts will come from Austria or be trained in Austria. Austrian universities, namely autonomous public universities or private universities, are expected to take top places in the future in international university rankings. To this end, it is also necessary for the state to create framework conditions that make it even more attractive for the economy to invest in science. Grants of any kind at universities should be generally and fully tax deductible in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! The importance of long-term policy is reflected in education policy. The economic package shows the Government's willingness and ability to respond to global developments without delay and to set the course of our country's positive future by concrete steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e11727	The next speaker is Mrs Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e11748	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In his opinion, the Federal Chancellor himself admitted that the Austrian economy was no longer growing. But what are the reasons why the economy is no longer growing? – I tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, these are your tax measures and your policy! The Federal Minister also spoke about the strengths – strengths – for the Austrian economy and led the education system. How do you want to implement this when you freeze the resources needed for the education system? You have also introduced the tuition fees. How should families with low incomes enable their children to train in the future? – The Federal Minister will probably want a two-class policy. [[Abg. Grossruck: They get a scholarship!]] [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: scholarship!]] It has also been found by my colleagues that we currently have the highest tax and tax rate in Austria at over 45 percent. In his speech, the Federal Chancellor also spoke of measures to enable better job placement. – Your policy of better placement of the labour force should go even so far that the unemployed must go to other federal states when workers are needed, and without if and but, without regard to the family. This is your understanding of work and family. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Skill Do you even imagine people who have to lose their jobs or who have to worry about their jobs? I tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I know what that means, because, when I was unemployed, I also had two children in education. In order to help these people, funds must be made available, but it must not, as you do, be frozen the funds for active labour market policies. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! For me, employment policy is at the heart of economic policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] In her opinion, Mrs Vice-Chancellor criticised thirty years of social-democratic policy. She said it was realism. I can only understand this ironically, because you know exactly that unemployment has increased. The Deputy Chancellor also said that more pressure should be exerted on non-employees, without concerned with the way in which workers really work and under what conditions they must earn their wages – and this, although you in particular say of the liberal group always to be representatives of the workers. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor also said that you were a party to the suspicion. I'll tell you: They are neither thinkers nor thinkers. Populism is the most important thing for you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: This applies to the SPÖ! Pure populism!]] But maybe it's useful. You spend a few hours in the Christmas season to think about it and then distance yourself from this punishment policy by providing the necessary resources for the people they need. [[Abg. Steibl: This is a fear-making! That's not all right!]] Ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP, you have today submitted a request for the dissolution of the Semperit Business Hospital. In this occupational health insurance fund, around 5,500 people are insured, and even in the worst case, this occupational health insurance fund is viable. But now they want to take away the tried-and-tested social network from these people. Do you understand this under "use for people"? – We reject this policy because man is at the heart of us. I therefore make the following further request:
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e11873	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Sophie Bauer are sufficiently supported, are in substance related to the matter of negotiation and thus to the vote in negotiation or in subsequent follow-up. The next speaker is Mr Staffaneller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e11903	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Of course, the global economic downturn has not gone past Austria without a trace. We have all noticed this, and we must take note of that. This has also led us to a temporary increase in unemployment compared with the previous year, which is different both in the federal states and in the individual sectors. The slightest increase in unemployment was observed in Tyrol and Carinthia, the highest in Vienna and Lower Austria, which of course has different causes, namely the employment of foreigners. More and more people are affected by unemployment, among other things, the construction professions. There are, however, ladies and gentlemen, also additional service conditions in other sectors; this too should be said and must not be kept silent. This is why the model for improving the location and economic recovery of the Federal Government takes particular account of the construction areas. A number of economic measures are planned, which will contribute to the improvement of the construction sector in the coming year. I would like to refer to the comments made by Mr Gusenbauer and Mrs Bauer. Dr. Gusenbauer said today that the SPÖ had always solved the economic problems better than the current Federal Government. I can only use two examples here – for more than enough speaking time; but I will be much more aware over time, and I will have the opportunity to show even more examples – to show the failure of the Social Democratic Social Ministers as economic politicians in the past. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: We don't believe that!]] Example number one, Mr Gusenbauer: In the late 1980s, construction unemployment rose in the short term as it is now. What did the government then have, what did the Social Democratic Ministers recommend? – You have the former employment offices to conduct long distance courses for construction workers, long distance courses sold exclusively by the bfi. And for the correction, the bfi and thus the trade union have been provided free of charge interns, unemployed cut-offs. A group has earned the whole: not the unemployed construction workers, not the economy, but the ÖGB and the bfi. Thus, in the statistics, thousands of unemployed construction workers have been hidden until the problem was over, and so the labour market policy has been pursued. If this is the labour market policy you have mentioned today as desirable, I say: "Good night!" [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Look Please note the latest events relating to promotions: No youth is allowed to stand on the street, everyone has to have a training place! I have many examples here that say how to deal with young people. In an internship, for example, someone was assigned three times to a supermarket to give in to the stables there – that was the "training"! This kind of training should not now take place with construction workers, but should take place qualitative training. It is now constantly lamented and said that the AMS has less money available for training, but that is simply not true. I am of the opinion that it should be evaluated that these measures should be promoted, both for the concerned and for the economy, and that alibi measures should finally end. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The example of number two, which is a source of special social cold, was the development of the unemployed. You know very well – we have said this repeatedly – that in the last ten years before 1999, the number of unemployed people has increased from 18 500 to 40 500. And you didn't do anything about it! They didn't think of anything at all to help those affected. – On the contrary: In the last election year, they deleted the funding for the disabled in order to meet the climate of the Federal Chancellor's programme, for example, to promote measures such as the Euroteam project. However, such measures should be final. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would just like to give an example of what the disabled billions of the Federal Minister of Education have brought to the attention: The latest statistics show that around 10,000 unemployed people are less favoured than in 1998 and 1999 – by 10,000 less! – and that at the end of the year 13 400 disabled people could now be put into work, so that the disabled, although economic downturn has been recorded, hardly any increase compared to the previous year. This is freedom of movement, Mrs Bauer! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is freedom of movement, Mrs Bauer, freedom of thought and thought that you have never done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e11968	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e11990	Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister's statement on BSE raises a number of questions. In addition, the Federal Minister knows that, there were two cases in connection with the slaughter of cattle by the media, and, remarkably, in both cases there was one such confusion of animals. The one case, you know, Mr. Federal Minister, was in May of this year when it turned out that cattle were still conscious of the division, lived and roared at pain. You saw this movie, and you did something about it back then. But something was also to be seen on this film, namely that at that time already with the ears and with the earmarks was not handled correctly, that all of this was thrown on a pile and was initially assumed by a false animal. – Two cases, two confusions! I ask you, Minister of State: What about food safety in Austria? – You cannot pretend that the safety of consumers would be absolutely guaranteed if there were confusion in two cases. I also find it absolutely unreasonable that you argue that it was foreign personnel who did not understand everything correctly. Carriers Make sure that the safety of consumers in this country is guaranteed! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Mitterlehner's speech. I note that you are not informed in the BSE causa, but the confusion of the debates is the work of the members of your federal government and not the work of the opposition. This will be done in a short time: If you say that the opposition may not criminalise, I ask you to contact your own Federal Minister. The advertisement at the prosecutor's office – and that quite rightly! – has, of course, been assumed by the Minister and by his ministry. Ladies and gentlemen! The evil intention you had in today's debate is that while we tried to be correct, you did not do anything like that. We have made a very conscious and, possibly, we can say, falsely no urgent request on this issue, so as to give ministers the opportunity to clarify the case internally first and then make a statement. However, that you, formally using the letter of the Rules of Procedure, but not in accordance with their spirit, make a mogel pack, that you are going something else into a debate that you yourself have wanted, that is to a great extent unfair! Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! This will not be accepted by the people either, because with this procedure you have made it clear today that you seem to have something to hide that you do not seem to want this separate debate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grossruck: Mrs. Oberlehrerin! ...!]] – Don’t talk about it, but sign up for a word! – Apparently, in the case of BSE, you have something to hide in terms of health protection if you need these mogel packs. Dr. Khol! The motto you've been spending and thus abused our fairness was "no waves only", gives some explanation and dizzys it somewhere! This motto, Dr. Khol, will not go up because you yourself have made it quite clear by this procedure that there is much more behind it. And I swear to you: It'll all come to light!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e12042	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e12064	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I do not want to deal with BSE, but with the economy. I was particularly concerned with the statements made by the opposition speakers. Despite the different access to this subject, I have found a consensus theme, which also shows me a certain ability to learn at SPÖ, at least verbally, namely the importance of the small and medium-sized economy in Austria. The small and medium-sized economy in Austria, with its hundreds of thousands of hard-working, skilled, committed and well-trained employees, is a supporter of economic prosperity, guarantee of full employment, supporter of the world-renowned and admired dual training system and guarantee for social security in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: With her!]] Especially this important sector of the Austrian economy is now massively threatened, tag "Basel II". Basel II, many experts say, is without sustainable correction a national time bomb, a classic job killer and a recession turbo, combined with the destruction of hundreds, if not thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, of jobs. If Basel II really goes over the stage as planned, you actually only get a cheap credit if you don't need a credit anymore. Even if it is not presented in this way in the public debate, the situation is quite dramatic. Although Basel II will only enter into force in 2005, the advances of this Basel II agreement are already painful, as banks have long since upgraded and expanded their internal rating system, the unwholesome spirit of Basel II can already be recognized. I do not know that the efforts of the Basel Committee to bring the capitalisation of credit institutions closer to the actual risks are absolutely necessary, but we must say one thing: We're not allowed to throw out the child with the bath. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not only at the political level that there is a need for action, but also the banks must be taken into account. It cannot be true that today large banks no longer grant loans to certain sectors, so-called risk sectors, especially the tourism and leisure industry, only because they are based solely on the shareholder value and not on their economic community responsibility. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, criticism of the large banks is appropriate. I say one thing: It is also shortsighted by the banks if they act like this today. What does the banking landscape do if it simply block credit lines, destroys businesses and drives workers into the unemployed? – Then they will suddenly no longer have private customers. High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! If your verbal commitment to the small and medium-sized economy is really serious, you agree with our motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e12110	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e12132	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues! I don't know why you're getting in this way, my colleague. This is all clear and well-known, something has to be done, and that is why we have our approval. [[Abg. Böhacker: Bravo!]] But this is not so much the problem. The problem is that you are now producing yourself as the brave knights and running against anything at a time when danger has been in delay for months. In the Financial Committee you have always missed these initiatives. But let's no longer move on this level, that's eaten! Let us remember the item on the agenda itself, about which it is about, and what the Federal Government has done for the best under the word "Success Model Austria – Location Improvement and Economic Recovery"! I just got the government's communiqué on the occasion of the economic summit. It shall be noted in the last paragraph: Purchasing power impulse of around 80 billion schilling by the Federal Government. Furthermore, I would like to ask you to be aware of this: Government measures such as oil price reduction. – How far are your omnipotence ideas going? – That’s quite typical of this approach! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Ecotax in the Federal Republic! 35 S for 1 litre of petrol!]] Last but not least, serve us the child money again. In reality, this economic package is a "rest recovery package", where you constantly warm up old stories. Instead of really taking economic-invigorating measures, celebrate your dogmatic family philosophy. Why the purchasing power argument should apply here, but not where you are again weakening that purchasing power with study fees, with ambulance fees and with the accident pension tax, that is not the case. You are unbelievable on this point! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is this the correction of your morning speech? He was so weak that he redoubled!]] The last point in this context, which is already important to me – Mrs Petrovic has already pointed out; one cannot do that often enough –: I have to say with regret, President Fassleven, which is a very strange point in the parliamentary debate. The statement by the Federal Minister of State, although the word "BSE" may have fallen before, was clearly aimed at being an independent statement. He did not at all intend to speak on the actual item on the agenda. And that's the point: It was not intended to make its own statement on a request or on a proposal from the opposition, so that one could have debated it. - No! This was found to be a consequence of the fact that the Members' speeches and in particular those of the opposition on the basis of the other programme must be limited in time or cannot take place at all. What is this approach? – We will certainly address this in the next presidential term. This is moving on the verge or beyond the Rules of Procedure. We won't let that happen any longer!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e12202	Mr Haigermoser spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e12226	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler claimed that the Federal Government was unbelievable in terms of low oil prices. - That's wrong! [[Abg. May. Kogler: "Omnipotenz" I said!]] Rather, it is true that the Federal Government is committed to a low oil price and product price by refusing an eco-tax by the coalition parties. In the Federal Republic of Germany you have achieved an increase in these prices with your green project. You've required 35 s for the litre of petrol. [[Prolonged calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Mr President!]] That is why we are against this procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e12281	Deputies! I would draw attention to the fact that the question of credibility or disbelief does not refer to a matter, but that this is a question of appreciation and therefore not the subject of a real correction. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Khol, Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues in terms of location security and economic recovery. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 110.) We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Dr. Khol, colleagues on measures to ensure the future of Semperit employees. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. (E 111.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger, fellow Members, on the extension of active labour market policies in mobilising the reserves of the AMS. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Böhacker, Dr. Stummvoll, colleagues on the recast of the Basel Capital Agreement and the corresponding European Union Directives on credit institutions and investment firms ("Basel II"). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – I note the unanimous adoption. (E 112.) [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of SPÖ and Greens)]] We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Vergestnich, colleagues and colleagues on securing the location and employment of Semperit in Traiskirchen. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Too late!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (in the direction of freedom) The so-called Little People Party!]] We now come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, on the economic advantage of the commitment of housing funds to comprehensive building renovations by means of an Article-15a agreement between the Federal Republic of Germany. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Back again!]] We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues on the growth programme for Austria – ensuring the future, prosperity and employment. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Everything already decided!]] I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Sophie Bauer, colleagues, on the immediate resolution of the labour market reserve. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Sophie Bauer, ladies and gentlemen, on support measures for the Semperit company. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Everything decided! Too late again!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We'd go to the 2nd place. Debates of the European Parliament However, since it is just before 3 p.m. and the competent member of the government or almost all the members of the House are present, I ask the following questions: Is there an objection to starting immediately with the urgent request so as not to interrupt the debate on item 2 after a very brief opinion by the Federal Minister? – If there is no objection to it, I will proceed like this. Mr Oellinger has an objection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e12484	Mr President. The Rules of Procedure clearly state that the call for urgent procedure must begin at 3 p.m. I think we should not go away from this practice, and I would ask you to interrupt until 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e12517	Deputies! The Rules of Procedure shall state on the one hand that the urgent procedure shall be called by 3 p.m. at the latest. But you're right, on the other hand it's Usus to start at 3:00. We can proceed in both directions, i.e. if it is your group's explicit wish, I would like to interrupt for three minutes until 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e12553	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting at 15.01 a.m. I ask you to take the seats. Request for urgent procedure Dr Eva Glawischnigund Comrades to the Federal Chancellor concerning an Austrian initiative for a nuclear exit in Europe at the EU Summit in Laeken (566/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e12592	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 566/A (E). This has been distributed, is available in writing and therefore does not need to be read. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e12920	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The explanatory statement shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e12941	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I start directly with three massive accusations concerning the failure of the Austrian anti-atomic policy, and I would like to justify the new beginning of the Austrian anti-atomic policy towards the end of the speech and also make constructive, concrete proposals. Federal Chancellor! When you returned from Brussels, you announced that you had a great success in the Causa Temelín. At the beginning you didn't even believe the coalition partner! In order to convince the population, they then had to turn over a weekend-wide advertisements in which you announced that you had negotiated well for Austria in order to scatter the legitimate mistrust and the legitimate fears that a false compromise was achieved here. [[The speaker holds a page of the "standard" on which an advertisement of the ÖVP entitled "For Austria Well Negotiated: Security for Temelín!" It can be seen.]] It is now necessary to keep in mind what is in these ads. What has been so well negotiated for Austria? What are these great successes? First jumps into your eye: Environment Minister Molterer: “Our goal remains the Europe-wide exit from nuclear energy.” The three most dangerous nuclear power plants in Europe are closed." - That's it! A very important question, however, which one of the observatories immediately raises is: When? When will the three most dangerous nuclear power plants in Europe be closed? [[Call the ÖVP: as soon as possible!]] In my research in the history of the Austrian and European anti-atomic policies, I met with these three high-risk reactors, namely Kozloduj, Ignalina and Bohunice – where Kozloduj and Bohunice are bordering nuclear power plants – a very worrying fact. Federal Chancellor! This is your first failure and your first great failure [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Kozloduj's 1 and 2 blocks in Bulgaria should have been shut down in 1997, blocks 3 and 4 already at the end of 1998. [[Abg. Achatz: Who was the Federal Chancellor?]] – He was Foreign Minister! – In the Ignalina power plant, block 1 should have been shut down in 1998, block 2 in 2002. Bohunice, the most dangerous high-risk reactor after international evaluation, should have been shut down in 2000. [[Abg. Kiss: Get down! Get down! Learn German! You don't master German, and you don't master nuclear policy either! That's embarrassing! Learn German!]] If you do this nice formulation "Our goal remains to take Europe-wide exit from nuclear energy seriously" and the question arises when, then one concludes: If this had been severely persecuted, then at the turn of the year none of the high-risk reactors would be on the grid anymore. The fact is, however, that: They're all still running! Why are they all still running? – Austria has failed to demand a drastic pre-imposition of this closing data in 2006 or 2008 and to make massive protests on this issue. On the contrary: Austria has even agreed that it will stay with it! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Who has protested? None!]] These massive failures, as regards these high-risk reactors, are strongly veiled by this listing. Federal Chancellor! You have to blame yourself for not taking it so closely with the truth. – This is our first accusation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It may be mentioned that fire is on the roof as far as Bohunice is concerned. It should be feared that the closure data will not even be observed in 2006 and 2008. – First failure: Europe's most dangerous cars remain on the grid much longer than it originally agreed. Money has been invested in security retrofitting, the originally promised decommissioning periods have not been observed, and Austria has not protested. The second accusation is a very serious matter for Parliament: I have selected all the requests made by the Austrian National Council, whether it be in a four-party agreement, but also in two-party unions, the Austrian Federal Government. Federal Chancellor! A very sad realization is that most of these requests were ignored, not fulfilled and not even taken seriously. I even believe that many of the Members who are sitting here today and who have taken part in these requests do not at all know what has been decided. There were very good, constructive proposals. I mention a few examples: The Austrian Federal Government's action plan, which was confirmed and decided twice by this House, formulated a number of proposals and orders to the Federal Government of Schüssel, which is formed of ÖVP and FPÖ, including convincing closure plans for the high-risk reactors. Orders have been given to finally set up initiatives for a EURATOM exit. Promises have been made – I have to mention this now, because it concerns the Austrian people directly – that consumers who are personally willing not to draw nuclear power, but eco electricity, are not taxed financially and have to pay as much as they have before. This is a great promise that has been made here. What happened? – This promise was broken! Mr Westenthaler! It's particularly annoying when you walk around with your stickers! No Austrian who, perhaps 1 000 S or 2 000 S per year, personally contributes to a nuclear exodus and whom you, as a Member of Parliament, have promised that he will no longer be asked to cash out if he opposes nuclear power and green electricity, can take this seriously. You should return your sticker for these people and at last pay off your promise! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why don't you like the sticker?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (on the golden blouse of the speaker) At least no golden designer fashion!]] If Mr Haigermoser says he is proud that he does not implement an ecological tax reform, then this is really a poverty certificate for an anti-atomic policy! They phase from a European nuclear exodus and from renewable energies and do nothing but further support and promote nuclear power and hinder renewable energy and green electricity. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer holds up a carat, where the FPÖ board "No to Temelín!" ==References==]] I would be interested in the evidence that this is not the case and your initiatives! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second crasher: The Austrian Anti-Atom Plan. All the own-initiative proposals and motions for resolutions, a whole series of specific orders from Parliament, have now been ignored, not taken seriously, for years now, with the approval of the EIA and the FPÖ. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are already very hard!]] The third massive accusation: The Minister for Freedom, Mr Forstinger, confirmed two weeks ago that you from the Government would not agree to the changes at European level, a nuclear research programme, in this form. The Members of the European Parliament have not actually done so. The third case: On Monday, in the form of this Federal Government, they adopted the 17 billion schilling for the European nuclear lobby without protest, where 500 million schilling of Austrian tax money is involved. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sin of the Lord Schennach!]] I now come to the fourth accusation. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Incredible how to say so many untruths about so many microphones!]] – You can then try to dispel what you call untruth here. Fourth allegation: The highlight of your nuclear failure this week, which you tried to speak up in this listing: "We have achieved the highest possible safety for people." "The Austrian security requirements are fully implemented" as regards the RKW-Temelín. "The implementation is monitored by Austria and the Czech Republic." And: "The agreement is legally binding and after the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU at the European Court of Justice..." [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Golden designer fashion!]] Mr Westenthaler, I don't know why you think this is funny! This is a very serious matter. Obviously, for you anti-CFC policy is only fun and Gaudi. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ms Glawischnig as an advertising carrier for the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Your speech is half-happy! What do you think you are? It's not a coffee house, it's the Parliament, Mrs. Oberlehrer!]] – Let me continue now? If the packaging is pushed aside, you will notice: Firstly, the safety requirements which Austria has formulated very precisely under the so-called Black Paper are not fully implemented. A very clear proof is that on the Czech side for this security upgrade – which is even negligible! – only 40 million schillings are to be spent, as can be read in Czech media and as ministers, especially Minister Gregr, claim there. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It stands as a resignation, the Minister!]] A serious assessment of this security upgrade goes beyond the three to four billion schilling. Mr Westenthaler! Do you think this contradiction doesn't say anything? Do you not believe that Austria has fallen into substantial areas? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He has submitted his resignation, Minister Gregr!]] Second allegation: The agreement is currently weakly secured and not open to the ECJ – contrary to what is claimed here. The third massive accusation – and there, one must say, has dominated an unprecedented word acrobatics over the last few days –: the conclusion of the energy chapter. Mr Westenthaler! If you then put journalists and other actors who represent facts in the public as they really are, an unprecedented false propaganda, that is really immense! People who represent objective facts and report objectively are defamated by you. I think that was the mean highlight in the Temelín discussion in the last few weeks. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President! But now it's enough with the lady's flaws out there in gold!]] "Falschpropaganda" for objective reporting is a diffamation! The last point regarding the Temelín AKW. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Spoken party out there!]] . Since yesterday we have had the so-called "road map", the timetable for the so-called safety upgrade, and I would like to quote just two examples of it, so that you can see once again how weak the agreement is and how much these claims have been made to the public by the hair. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No free speech!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: No heart commitment!]] It is about two essential technical details. One is the reactor pressure container, the core vessel of the power plant. For a long time now, we have called for comprehensive analyses, especially in block 2, before it goes into operation, and for these upgrades to take place. What's going on? – A meeting will only take place in the first half of 2004 on this important security issue! A first meeting will take place only in the second half of 2004 on a second important security issue, namely the whole question of primary circuit components. So, if you call this a success, if you call it good negotiations on security for Austria, then I don't know! You have to admit something, something I also want to admit to the ÖVP: It was at least clear from the beginning what you want. The exit was abandoned, the white flag was hoisted. – But what the liberals have done here, namely to carry out a propaganda on the one hand, but on the other hand to fall over all the essential decisions and to spread sand to the people, was truly unprecedented! [[Abg. Haigermoser: You also fell into Germany!]] And if you look at a quote from Klubobmann Khol last year – "The truth is a daughter of the time" – then you have to say: Now is the time for the truth to come to light once again, Mr. Westenthaler! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] "The Temelín agreement for Austria is well negotiated", "Security for Temelín": All of this is essentially a very weak compromise. The EURATOM decision has fallen in Brussels – the great crasher especially for the freedom Minister Forstinger. The main most dangerous nuclear power stations, which should have already been shut down, are still in operation, and it can be assumed that the closing data, which is now far too late, should be moved further. The next failure, the next warning is already in the house if we do not work hard against it, and I now want to come to the second part of our request and initiative. Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel, you have announced your commitment to the Laeken European Council for Europe-wide safety standards. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] They want to give rise to the creation of Europe-wide safety standards and have clearly received positive signals from some countries. Watch out! The initiative itself is welcomed by us, however: If you look at the success rates of your last anti-atomic projects, you have to say that a warning is more than appropriate. And I would also like to explain exactly why. The concept of security standards can be used in a massive way, and that is why we have a very constructive, important proposal, which we want to give you as march baggage from this Federal Government to Laeken. We want the highest possible safety standards for nuclear power plants as an exit instrument. Everyone is talking about a pan-European nuclear exodus, but no one has so far explained – especially you, Mr Westenthaler – how to do it. On the contrary: Your club's mandates defame eco-power and defamate environmental tax reforms that would actually be the instrument. Therefore, the highest possible safety standards as an exit instrument! – We have already experienced negative experiences in Eastern Europe with so-called security standards. Funding for retrofitting was provided. The remaining periods were not observed, and safety standards were reinterpreted to ensure the survival of the Western nuclear industry. Therefore, from the clear mandate – and I hope that you can agree with that from ÖVP and FPÖ – we will set the highest possible safety standards as exit tools, where the most dangerous nuclear power stations in Europe, both in Western Europe and in Eastern Europe, are taken from the grid over phases. One can start with the high-risk reactors and then, in a sequence of three, five, seven to ten years, really come to a nuclear-free Western and Eastern Europe. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the commitment of the Greens? You once had power!]] Mr. Westenthaler, you think this is so funny. I have not heard from you a single proposal on how you really want to implement the nuclear exodus in Europe – on the contrary! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Greens used to be committed!]] I'd like to tell you how your safety standards are at the moment. At the moment, the atomic lobby itself is working on these safety standards. Nobody's involved. The nuclear-free states have far too little participation. It's completely opaque. No NGOs can cooperate either. . We want these safety standards to be defined, with the involvement of experts from environmental organisations, as completely transparent and with the involvement of non-atomic states as shutdown periods for Western and Eastern Europe. – This is our march luggage for laeken for Mr. Federal Chancellor Schüssel. Federal Chancellor! Our second assignment. In this package, about ten times an initiative of the Austrian Federal Government has been adopted to amend EURATOM. No initiative has yet been known to me. If one has been given, it has so far remained completely ineffective. Our second essential task: Finally, a reasonable initiative that has an impact on the resolution of the EURATOM Treaty in 2004 and on the strengthening of renewable energy. Such a decision must finally be brought about! I think after the 11th. The opportunities for this are better on September, but you should also implement and take seriously what you yourself have decided. Federal Chancellor! Our third proposal for march luggage: We want a European exit fund. We want financial resources currently used at the European level exclusively for the promotion of nuclear energy to be used for an exit scenario. It is now again in discussion to provide 5 billion schilling for a new Romanian power plant, Cernavodă. In the future, we want these funds to be consistently reversed – for renewables, for environmental alternatives and for the modernisation of energy systems, especially in Eastern Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, our fourth assignment: The decommissioning of the high-risk reactors is so urgent, and everything we have decided here is actually so clear and so clear that I cannot understand why not much more massive and stronger Austrian initiatives have come here. I would just like to quote once again what was the mandate of the National Council regarding the Bohunice power plant, high-risk reactor: "The Federal Government is... asked to make a strong commitment to the fact that... a clear signal is being issued for the pre-implementation of the specific closing data." This should have been done before the negotiations with Slovakia started, so we are in arrears here for at least two years. They were Foreign Minister at the time, Mr. Bundeskanzler. How amazingly the EIA has dominated environmental policy, energy policy and foreign policy for many years. If you compare this with the successes in this area, this is actually a very, very sad balance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nevertheless, our constructive offer, and therefore the urgent request that the National Council should decide today: To try to resolve the security standards as a removal and shutdown instrument in Laeken, the resolution of EURATOM, a European exit fund and the rapidest possible shutdown of the high-risk reactors. If you cannot agree to these points, I would also be very interested in why you do this: whether that has any reason for content or whether this is the automatic reflex, if there is a request from the opposition to simply vote in favour of it. In fact, I think that these are the points where one can only be difficult to resist, unless it is a reflex-like fundamental opposition to constructiveness. In conclusion: Mr. Federal Chancellor, in connection with these ads you booked last weekend, I would be interested if you might have already booked ads for the next weekend to click the great success of Laeken then to the population after you have not brought this over the media, which is supposed to be only mispropaganda. [[the speaker keeps the above-mentioned ads up to date]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So much advertising!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Too bad that no live transmission is!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Schweitzer and Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I would ask you and recommend: Voices If you propose to our request today, then you do not really need this ad site. Then you can save this money, and the best thing would be if you had a savings book for it...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e13407	Please, let's finish the sentence. The speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e13422	... if, instead of turning on such ads, you would place the money for an exit offer to the Czech Republic for Temelín on this savings book. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e13461	The Federal Chancellor has now come to speak on an opinion on the urgent request, which should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e13482	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful to you for having held a party institution of the People's Party for so long. I am only sorry that we no longer have a live broadcast so that the Austrians can really picture the objective success of the negotiations under the leadership of Willi Molterer over a year. Thank you very much for this urgent request and for your introduction! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] But at the same time, I also say that I am a little surprised, because you – at least in the previous discussions – are a very exposed, very pointless, but always objective speaker in mind, and I would like to expressly say that I really need to be surprised at some of the theses you have represented here today. For example, in the area – which, of course, is harsh – you put it as if there had been a commitment from Bulgaria, Lithuania and Slovakia to the European Union to accept an earlier closing date. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) That's just not true. There has been a negotiating position of the European Commission before the negotiations with the candidate countries have even begun. It then came under our chairmanship – and Mrs Prammer knows that very well, because at the time she was in the Federal Government responsible for anti-atomic policy and for nuclear policy and safety standards – one year after we started the negotiations and after we had jointly called for high security standards for Central and Central Europe – and this has also been accepted in Helsinki and previously in Cologne – in September 1999, one year after the opening of the negotiations, on a proposal from the Commission, which was jointly agreed with the candidate countries, and it was then made binding at an accession conference. This is the first and only case in which the closure of these three high-risk reactors has been committed to the accession process. This was also before the Federal Government took over the office. So I also ask you to be a little precise in the accusations. You cannot accuse us of this, because we have probably maintained the binding definition of closing data within a year from the beginning of the negotiations. Everything else is rhetoric – and I prefer to do so, and not just with the announcer, Mrs Deputies! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The next point: You have said that it is not an initiative of the Austrian Federal Government regarding EURATOM in your mind. But now I really want to ask you: Have you completely missed the fact that we just had an IGC, an intergovernmental conference, which led to the Treaty of Nice, where it was an Austrian position to integrate the EURATOM Treaty as an energy chapter into the European Treaty? Has that really been hidden from you? . Then I am glad to be able to inform you today and here, because it was obviously long overdue, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would recommend: Do not enter a wide open door with a huge effort! All of Austria is in favour of integrating the EURATOM Treaty into the EU Treaty or into the EC Treaty. But I have to tell you one thing: The rules in the Union are already such that we can still act together only in consensus. There is no one – neither the current President-in-Office of Verhofstadt nor Tony Blair, nor Gerhard Schröder, nor the Wolfgang Schüssel – a European dictator who can impose our common will on others. We need the consensus of all, and we will not achieve this by, for example, using, or not using nuclear power, the necessary and right demand for European safety standards for all nuclear power plants, as it is still a national decision to use or not use nuclear power, and I am not going to force anyone into nuclear energy within the European Union, and vice versa. Three countries have not decided to leave, and on average, all of Europe still gains 40 percent of the electricity used from nuclear energy. Therefore: If we want to achieve this important concern – security standards for the whole of Europe – together, please with the right tone and please also with the right arguments, Madam Members! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] By the way, I can tell you because you're always talking about little liability: Not least has the Commission adopted on Austrian pressure now, this autumn, the strategy paper on the progress of the applicant country, for example on the negotiating positions in the energy chapter, and the Commission has taken on board our suggestion that the decommissioning obligations with regard to non-retrofitable power plant blocks in Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria should be complied with – and should therefore be incorporated into the accession treaties and therefore, of course, become admissible law. I think it is a great success of our common policy to have achieved this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now to Temelín. – The real topic was the Temelín discussion, and I would like to say very openly to you: This Austrian Federal Government under the leadership of Mrs. Vice-Chancellor and of me did not reach in even two years more than even bold optimists thought possible a year ago or some time ago. This was possible because we have always been together until the last two to three weeks, except for the last two to three weeks. That made us strong, because with it everyone knew: This is not a political question. Here Austria acts, defends vital interests and enforces something. It has made me very concerned, and it has also weakened our common position that the Social Democrats and the Greens in particular have actually left this common basis and, ultimately, the path that we started in milk a year ago and instead have turned towards a senseless blockade technique that cannot be in our interest, Madam Members. Deep down you know I'm right with this argumentation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have not achieved everything in these negotiations, that is quite clear. The exit from Temelín has not been achieved, but we have reached a maximum in the bilateral negotiations, which was enforceable, for example, so that all seven security points requested by the Austrian experts are included in Milk's mandatory international conclusions. Of course, this also applies – I am saying this because it is, in turn, so harshly formulated in your request – to the famous Containment, i.e. to the outer shell of the reactor, which is, of course, contained in Annex I 7b of the security issues, thus binding, to the Brussels agreement under the hardware measurement. It is also clear from the point of view of the 28-metre stage and the valves that the appropriate measures must be implemented even before the start of the commercial operation, as can be read in Chapter 6 of the Brussels Agreement. I really ask you not to pretend that Temelín would not have a containment. There are a few Western European nuclear power plants that have no containment at all. Temelín – thank God, I say – does not belong to it. The demand was not that they might finally build a reactor shell, a containment; they have. The demand of the Austrian safety experts was to apply the clear mathematical calculation methods, that this can be proved beyond any doubt. And this is achieved in these seven security points! You have made fun of a date here: for example, the experts will get results in 2004 about the sprinkling of the material. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for long-term studies, which will start immediately, but a long-term study will not take place in three or four months. These studies are, of course, starting immediately, but in 2004 they will be monitored – through our Environment Minister Willi Molterer and through the European Union in the "Peer Review" and so on. These studies will be presented and will be subject to international monitoring. Don't you understand – or don't you want to see that, Mrs. Deputies? I am disappointed because I have thought very much of you in the case-by-case argument. And this result is a good result for Austria's safety. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Similarly, the Czechs have for the first time committed themselves to implementing all 21 recommendations from the environmental impact process. There are a lot of studies, accompanying measures, transparent information inside. We have insisted that the conclusions will be included as a protocol in the Act of Accession, which has never been in the history of the European Union at all, and thus we have practically a new primary right from the accession of the Czech Republic, which can be brought before the European Court of Justice. I'll go into it in detail. The Czech Republic will not take up commercial operations until the points that are the prerequisites for safe operation are implemented, and the Czech Republic, together with us, acknowledges Europe-wide safety standards. I would like to thank Willi Molterer for these laborious one-year negotiations, which have been conducted together with many good Austrian and international experts. This time was well invested, it was important for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would also have liked – I say this very openly – that there would have been a little more lobbying, because there are some social-democratic politicians on the European stage, even green politicians, environmental ministers in some countries. I would have liked to have a stronger lobbying, because somewhere was it strange about the overweight social democratic governments in Europe and many green politicians: We were all alone! No one came to our side and helped us. I would have liked to see the German Environment Minister Trittin sitting next to our Willi Molterer. Afterwards, when we brought home a good result, the number of riders has suddenly grown. There Trittin was on stage and welcomed what Europe has negotiated with Austria and the Czech Republic. There would have been courage before! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Bavarian Environment Minister, the Bavarian Prime Minister, has always helped us. – His praise was honest, because Edi Stoiber has always taken our position and has even criticized Gerhard Schröder in the internal German discussion, why he does not allow his Environment Minister to do so to our negotiations. ==References== Thus, in November, a double success was achieved: Temelín is adapted to European safety standards, which are binding, and by the fact that all the Member States of the Union have given the start of the adoption of the Energy Chapter, the implementation of the measures can be started immediately. It has been said by the Council working group that the COREPER said yes, on Monday the General Council said yes, and today at the Accession Conference the Czechs have put their commitment to record. Ladies and gentlemen! There was no alternative to the line that was often difficult – I want to admit it here. We have reached a maximum because we in the Federal Government – throughout the Federal Government! – and all the government groups have worked together here and have consistently gone the way for negotiation. I would also like to thank you at this point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They say that the result is not legally secured, and: What's the whole thing? Is that some kind of private contract? Is that some text that the two of them negotiated, Zeman and Shell? – I rely on the professionals from the Constitutional Service and the International Law Bureau. International law is a very clearly legally binding contract within the meaning of the Vienna Convention on Contract Law – which, by the way, is not automatically linked to the indictability of the contract. This is only because we have ensured that it will be included in the Act of Accession and can therefore really go to the European Court of Justice after accession. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic on common interest in nuclear safety and radiation protection, Federal Law No. 565/1990 and 123/1997, has been concluded by the Federal Chancellor on the basis of an agreement between the National Council and the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic. Furthermore, it does not contain any legislative or complementary provisions and is a Convention within the meaning of the resolution of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany of Germany. In December 1920, Bundesgesetzblatt 49/1921, it is therefore also in accordance with § 2 para. 5 Bundesgesetzblattgesetz in the Bundesgesetzblatt III must be made known. It is a very clear legal contract that binds both sides. They are now saying that it has been a violation of parliamentary anti-atomic orders by the Federal Government. I would like to say to you again: The steps taken to resolve the seven security problems have been laid down in Annex 1 by law and by international law. This is particularly due to the final provisions of the agreement, according to which the Signatories guarantee the implementation of the obligations taken over regardless of the ownership of the nuclear power plant. Chapter 8 on enlargement also states that the Czech Republic will inform the content and the binding nature of the agreement. That is why it is clearly the binding character. I would also like to read to you – in English; the German translation is not yet available – what has been said today at the accession conference of Czech Foreign Minister Jan Kavan: I would like to stress that the Czech Republic found it fit to bring the conclusions to the notice of the European Union within the framework of the accession conference to highlight that the Czech Republic consider itself to be sound to implement them. The Czech Republic will fully honor its commitments under these conclusions. Austria and the Czech Republic agreed on the common objective to include the bilateral bonds contained in these conclusions in the protocol to the accession act. This makes it clear, for the first time not only to Austria, but also to the other fourteen, that the Czech Republic is bound by this agreement. And with that, picks it, and that's important! – A great success for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The failure you claimed, perhaps desired, is the exact opposite: as a full success in the interests of the Austrians. Now you have made the statement, repeated, but today again, that the EU wants to take only two of the seven security problems raised by Austria into account in the energy chapter. This too is simply not true. There is a Council Working Group that has commissioned the Atomic Question Group, and then there is this Working Party on Nuclear Safety, which has made three general recommendations for all countries, for all nuclear power plants and specific country recommendations for very specific and concrete power plants. These are always to be read together. The general and special recommendations apply. In addition, in its information to the Accession Conference, the 7th Additional Information, the Milker Agreement has made it the subject of the accession negotiations. In this way, the Accession Treaty will contain all the commitments entered into by the Czech Republic in relation to the Temelín nuclear power plant. The statement that Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, under the Council on Monday, expressed a reservation to return to the energy chapter, in stark opposition to the EU practice, is simply and simply wrong, ladies and gentlemen. Your claim that we have been isolated is simply and simply wrong. By the way, it has always been in the past that even candidate countries or individual countries have come back to certain issues. [[Abg. Kiss: She's unknowingly!]] The resumption of negotiations with regard to provisionally closed negotiating chapters is by no means an individual case, which is in line with a very common practice. This is mainly because the commitments for a candidate, namely the acquisition and application of the acquis, are by no means final with the provisional conclusion of a chapter. To this end, the Commission shall, in particular, carry out a continuous monitoring of progress on the acquis in all candidate countries. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Everything is possible!]] On the European Union's internal agreements on this subject, methodology for the conduct of accession negotiations, document 13462/1999 – this has been done to you, ladies and gentlemen – it is literally carried out – I quote: The monitoring should now become an essential element of negotiation. To this end, the provisional conclusion of chapters should be based not only on an agreement between Member States on the specific issues discussed in the negotiations, but also on the sufficient progress made in pre-accession in the country. It goes on to say: "Chapters should then be re-opened if the applicant country concerned has failed to fulfil its obligations in the field concerned." – End of the quote. As an additional instrument of observation, the EU is available in our so-called peer review case. This process deals with the general and specific recommendations of the Atomic Question Group report and thus all the seven security points that we agreed in Brussels. If this observation indicates that a candidate country does not comply with its commitments made in connection with the provisional conclusion of a negotiating chapter, any Member State, including the Presidency or the Commission, may, of course, address this matter in the Accession Conference. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: After reading, Josef Cap!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Fairy-tale!]] Finally, this can of course also lead to the reopening of a provisionally closed negotiating chapter, which is also clearly defined in the EU's internal agreements – document MD 4501 of 7. ==References== And precisely in this light, Mrs Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner, in her statement at the General Affairs Council on Monday, stated that Austria reserves the right to return to this chapter in the light of peer review and the measures taken by the Czech Government until the conclusion of the accession negotiations. This position was taken into account by all the Member States. Here too, it turns out, under expert analysis, that: Not we say the untruth as you have said in a very strange choice of words, but you simply don't know yourself in the matter, Mrs Deputies. That's the truth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The preliminary conclusion of the energy chapter is not the end, but the start of the retrofitting measures. Since Monday – not only since yesterday, as you have claimed here – Environment Minister Willi Molterer has agreed with the Czech Foreign Minister on the timing of how this monitoring of the steps to be taken immediately. This does not mean, of course, that implementation will only begin at this time when monitoring in the joint working group takes place. On the contrary: This means starting immediately and then reviewing implementation in defined intermediate stages. As a result, security problems are not pushed to the long-term bank, but rather consistently treated step by step with sound monitoring. In the Czech Republic, there has, by the way, been intense discussions on why the Czech Government has agreed to anchor this agreement in EU law. If that was nothing, I ask you, Madam President: Why then do prominent Czech politicians so vehemently oppose this agreement and anchor the agreement in the accession acts if it does not achieve legal effects? – The answer is quite clear: Because the opposite of your claim is the case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] By the way, I would like to invite you to think about whom you actually benefit from your argumentation. – You use your argument that this is nothing at all, exclusively those hardliners in the Czech Republic who, of course, do not want any interference from the EU or Austria in this monitoring of the implementation of binding security measures. This can be done, please, ladies and gentlemen, not in your, but at least not in our common interest. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have further successes to make: The EU has decided on the position that all high-security reactors must be shut down. This point is reached. Bohunice, Ignalina and Kozloduj are shut down. Austria is actively involved in the exit aid. In total, over 5 billion schillings are already available for this. If I still calculate Chernobyl, for which a own fund of about $700 million is available, if I have the right number in my mind, there is a tremendous impulse. Austria has achieved that the issue of nuclear safety is an issue in the enlargement process. It is also our success that additional security measures must be taken by all candidate countries in the case of the seven other non-stop nuclear power stations. This is a real common success. I don't think anti-politics are enough. This is pro-politics: per security, per European policy, which citizens can really understand, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oil: Per atom!]] Next point: In turn, they claimed that EURATOM or the European research programme had suffered a huge crash. The truth is quite different. The truth is that this new framework programme provides €17.5 billion for research and European research programmes. Not even 8 percent of this expenditure, i.e. € 1.2 billion, is spent on EURATOM research projects. ==References== The final negotiations have now been held in the EU Research Council on December, and the Minister for Education has succeeded in making some very massive and positive choices. The following has been achieved: The framework programme, contrary to the original Commission proposal, will be a nuclear research programme and not a nuclear energy research programme. Support for the nuclear sector will be available in the 6th century. EURATOM's framework programme no longer mentioned at all. Radiation protection is its own research focus according to the long-standing Austrian demand, it has also been upgraded budgetly. Austria sees this activity as a priority in the EURATOM Framework Programme. The amount of the budget, while everything else was raised, was not only increased, but even slightly reduced, while nonnuclear energy research in the 6th. Research framework programme has been significantly increased. – I want to save you the texts in detail now, you can read them. But if these results are so bad, ladies and gentlemen, I again ask: Why, then, did the red and green governments of Germany, France or the Social Democratic Government of Finland or the Green Minister currently holding the Belgian Presidency agree with all of this? - Then it can't be as bad as you claim here. I believe that we have achieved a very reasonable result, that we have taken a step towards the Austrian position on the principle that research funding in the European Union should focus on renewable energy sources. Last point: We will fight, starting with the Laeken Council, for pan-European safety standards for nuclear power stations. For the first time, some of the contestants or fellow fighters have ventured out of the "Etappe", and I have to acknowledge that very much, because that was not usual so far, that was a special feature in this situation. During my visit to Brussels on 29 October, the President of the Council, Guy Verhofstadt, for the first time publicly announced his agreement, and Commission President Romano Prodi, at a European-wide video conference last Friday, stated literally: "Even the largest ignorant" should understand that the European Union needs a common nuclear safety policy." He literally said: "I can only be very positive about Chancellor Schüssel's proposal. '" Ladies and gentlemen! Anti-atomic policy is too little. We need a positive policy aimed at really doing something for security and for people in Europe and in Austria. Three nuclear power plants are locked – this is a visible success of this policy – and seven are safely brought to the state of the art. Bilaterally delicate questions have been solved, such as now with the Czech Republic, but also with Slovakia, Hungary or Slovenia. The Austrians understand this way: In line with a survey presented in the ORF, 67 percent have found this way of negotiations to be correct, and 84 percent have said that, after resolving difficult bilateral problems, we should now address the energetic and constructive accession negotiations. I would like to invite you once again, Madam President: Let's go this way together! It would be a European and a good red-and-white-red way.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e13747	We are now entering the debate. You know, each group has 25 minutes at its disposal, and no speaker is allowed to speak for more than 10 minutes. The first is Mrs. Dr. Petrovic's speech. It has proposed a voluntary speaking time of 8 minutes, so the clock is also set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e13794	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! When, as part of the reply, you, Mr Bundeskanzler, once again tried to show us that you had negotiated a good result, there were exactly 20 Members of the Liberal Party in the room, and of these 20, exactly four of them gave a hesitant applause. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How many greens?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Five greens were in the room!]] Federal Chancellor! Summation Therefore, you are not the opposition whose task it is to review, control and also criticize the behaviour of the government, but first try to convince your coalition partner of the good result! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Mr Kukacka and Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler. I know that if you are unable to find a common line within the Federal Government, this will hurt if you are not able to speak to a tongue at least at government level. But in view of that, I ask you not to make any accusations towards opposition, especially if they lack an objective basis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! You are always pretending to want the same thing as the Greens, which our environmental spokesperson has referred to you very often and often. I would like to sum up briefly: The question of safety standards is only not to counter-carry an exit line if the safety standards also correspond – firmly fixed and internationally enforceable – exit dates. [[Abg. Kiss: Glavish is under the carpet...! That's incredible!]] Only then and under this condition can you consider further money – and ultimately it is about it – for nuclear power stations somehow, if at least the exit dates are not scrambled. – That is exactly what happened, and you know that, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Calls at the ÖVP towards Greens.]] It was very likely that fixed exit data had already been fixed in Agenda 2000 and then due to the pressure of the nuclear energy industry, which the entire European Conservative Group has repeatedly yielded, these exit times have been softened and postponed. For some power plants – for example, Kozloduj 3 and 4 – there is no agreement at all at all and partly extension by six, eight and more years. – That’s not an exit program anymore, but it’s a program of cizerly continuing investment, and we reject that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! To EURATOM: There is one point that remains so unclear at all times, and it has not even been tried by the government to achieve consensus in this regard at national level. This is probably the case too – now the liberals have fled completely; they will already know why – because there is a point where you will probably not come to a consensus. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Because you're talking now!]] This is the question that matters – you have already suggested this a little cryptic in the economic debate today – that new technologies should not be degenerated in general. My question is: What are we talking about? – There are two major technologies, which are actually risky, which also trigger fears, which, in our opinion, cannot be assessed uniformly in terms of construction and arch. On the one hand, genetic and biotechnologies – and on the other hand, different areas – are concerned with new, other research in the field of nuclear energy. And you know as well as we, Federal Chancellor, that, of course, further conventional reactor developments with Austrian money – with little money – are being supported at EURATOM, too; this is not just about merger. – And secondly, it is about clarifying the question: How do we stand for fusion research? We – even me personally – do not believe that it is useful for ecological reasons and also for economic reasons to put such billions in this area, because, if at all, it is far too late to solve the European energy problems. We do not know your attitude and the attitude of the FPÖ, but obviously – I take this indirectly from your statements – you are for that. And there is indeed a great difference between you and our position, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! They said that no country in Europe would be allowed to speak in national energy policy. - That's right. But who did that? Who has done this, above all, with veto policy? – If there is another back in the Czech Republic to support nuclear energy – many in the government and especially in the population were already very far away from supporting nuclear energy! – then it was the work of the FPÖ. And that was willing to incite the resentments for very different reasons! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! No country would be allowed to talk, but I'm asking you: Who spoke to the state governments in Austria when the EdF bought itself in Styria when the RWE bought itself in Carinthia, which is so ecologically preoccupied by the state? – I have not heard a word! Federal Chancellor! They themselves have foreseen the participation of E.ON in the union. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] So who made us come here, who was that? What secret powers have led Austria to anything? – That’s exactly what we always challenge! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! The Federal Government has much more media opportunities than the opposition. If a Federal Chancellor, if government members hold a press conference when the Council of Ministers takes place, they have a media audience. A federal government that needs large-scale ads to pay a lot of tax money to represent its policy... [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, this point has been reported, but the relevant journalists have just seen it different from you. Therefore, my question is: If we want to give no-ten now, do you want to give notes to the free press now, or do you really need the ads to teach the journalists to the Austrian public? – If your policy is not credible, it will not be through ads either!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e13945	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e13966	Federal Chancellor! You are a master of confusion tactics, and you just want to talk about procedures and not substances, but the problem is that it is about substances in this debate. I just resist trying to sell us and the Austrian population for stupid. Security is a very central element in this debate and is very important for many Austrians, and therefore we are all committed to this issue. I say to you: You will have no opportunity at all for two years now, because the famous indictments at the European Court of Justice et cetera, of which you are constantly telling us, will only strike in two years if the Czech Republic is a member of the European Union at all. Within these two years, the Czech nuclear authority can actually do what it wants. This is, of course, included in national sovereignty. What is contained in Annex I of your famous Brussels non-convention with Mr Zeman is nothing other than the finding – in point 1 and point 2 – that it is literally left to the Czech control authority to judge autonomously what is at all a security defect and whether retrofitting is necessary. – This is contained in points 1 and 2. Points 3, 4 and 5 contain a reference to the guidelines of the International Atomic Energy Authority and no additional commitment for the Czech Republic. At point 6, in terms of earthquake security, you have intervened for a workshop, a working group or anything else without obligation. – This is the core of the contract. This core touches the famous seven security failures. We Socialists and the Greens, too, were the only ones who took this milking process, which was triggered by Schüssel-Zeman-Verheugen, seriously at last, because in our motion for a resolution the points of the milking process are given as a prerequisite for the approval of the energy chapter. But I would like to clean up here with something else: Not agreeing to the provisional conclusion of the energy chapter has absolutely nothing to do with a veto. This is part of your confusion strategy and your nebula grenades, which you throw into the discussion, because then one could be, because Loyola de Palacio is delaying an agreement with the transport chapter, because a veto debate can also be held immediately. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The SPÖ wants a blockade!]] It is not until next year that we have the negotiations on the agricultural chapters to lead to the Structural Funds. That's what the Spaniards are going to say. This has nothing to do with veto policy, but it is nothing but try to enable post-negotiations. That's not what you want. Commissioner Günter Verheugen clearly stated this in the "FORMAT" interview, and it was also quoted correctly in the "Kurier". He says if I translate this: Now it's over! Günter Verheugen says: It's over, the energy chapter has been completed. We gave you the last opportunity on Friday in the main committee to bind the foreign minister to prevent her from closing the energy chapter. This was once again smeared by a smearing of the two government parties. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You just want to block! You want to block the Easter expansion! Tell the truth!]] You have to imagine this: The two government parties put forward a so-called opinion and commitment of the Minister that on Monday she is bound not to commit anything. That was the trick of your application, and that concludes the matter. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Your weak form of yesterday is continuing!]] Now, in reality, you will no longer be able to conduct any further negotiations, you will not be able to change anything in the next two years, because the Czech nuclear authority has to decide independently. Then there will be a conflict between Czech and Austrian technicians who will last forever, then there will be a dispute that will last forever. And until all these cumulated disputes are negotiated, Temelín will be closed after 30 years, because it's just out because it's no longer going – if it's going on for that long. – This is the policy you want to clarify to the Austrians. That's what I call the Austrians bewildering! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know very well that you can't do this to the Austrians. You know very well that you should not play with fears and with the security need. I am unhappy about this development, and I tell you that I really hoped and wish there was a reasonable agreement. I would have really hoped that this agreement would have the legal obligation that you always give to him. But that's not the case. Therefore, you should honestly say what is really the non-substance of this report. I would like to say to the liberals: The "Kronen Zeitung" seems to have escaped this popular desire anyway, as I can take from today's title of the "Kronen Zeitung". How will you continue to appear now? How will your other line of argument be, because you have participated in the final effect of this game? I don't know if They were so to speak, or they carried the double game. – You have to make it clear to us what your policy was in the end. The fact is that you have watched, as in COREPER, in the Council Working Group, the first definition has taken place. Where you cried the loudest, you apparently agreed back, because the message came from Vienna that the waiting period for the energy chapter is not up to date. They have jointly submitted a non-binding application with the ÖVP and our binding request, which would have allowed the Energy Chapter to remain open and the security issues still open could not be negotiated further. That is why your popular desire is pointless, absolutely pointless! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the one hand, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who is just telling us that the non-contract, i.e. the contractual establishment of the non-security policy, is an important milestone, and on the other hand, you are defending this nothing, this agreement between Prime Minister Zeman and Federal Chancellor Schüssel and at the same time taking it as the basis for popular desire. – That's Cacania, that's all I can say. For this kind of security policy, which you both have to take responsibility for in the government, the Austrians will at least thank you. That's not a contribution to security anymore. To this end, I would like to say: The Federal Chancellor said that we were all alone throughout Europe. – This, however, is a fear of ungoods, as far as the further fight for the Europe-wide exit from nuclear energy is concerned, which is very important. [[Abg. Hornek: Convince your friends in Germany, France, England! The socialist governments in Europe, Mr Cap!]] If this government is so isolated that it does not find any more alliance partners that we cannot help to get out of Europe's nuclear energy, then it is really sad. It is true that there are even more dangerous power plants than Temelín, so it is even more important that there is actually this Europe-wide exit from nuclear energy. And it's worth fighting for.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e14063	Mr Dr. Khol spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e14087	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic has referred to this excellently designed information agency as an advertisement that has been turned on by the government. I correct and represent the actual facts: I am proud that this Advertiser clearly noted – this is a really good listing –: "An information of the ÖVP Federal Party and the ÖVP Parliamentary Club."
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e14117	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e14139	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm worried, and I'm wondering. [[Abg. Huber: We too!]] I'm worried about my colleague Glavischnig. There are others in front of you here, Mrs Colleague, who have tried empty-handedly to justify a urgent request or a urgent request. Ladies and gentlemen have come to the floor here before you, which instead of arguments included a cramping bag full of half-truths and non-arguments. But I have never experienced that a Member of Parliament has been confronted with his missing arguments and half-truths as you did by Mr Bundeskanzler after his really undisputed statement of a urgent question by the competent member of the government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm really worried about your sensitivity. But this has not been the first time, Mrs Glawischnig. They have already tried, after the EU Subcommittee and the main committee in front of ongoing cameras, to create uncertainty among people outside with half-truths and lack of arguments and to spread sand to them. You didn't succeed at the time, but you do it for the time being. I would urgently ask you: Take advantage of the upcoming Christmas holidays, go into yourself and put on a different style in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I said earlier, I wonder, this is especially true of our former government partner. As long as the larger group of the left half of the empire was with us in the government, as long as it was at least successful – unfortunately I have to say today – to reach consensus on nuclear policy issues in this House, to achieve supposed consensus – documented in countless motions for resolutions. As a government partner, we would be obliged to cover some of the Manko's red government members in the implementation of this common strategy, also to argue, and we did so; I didn't want to say right now: to speak about missing successes. This new federal government has created clear responsibilities in government responsibility, it has clearly defined how to implement this anti-atomic or pro-security strategy, and, as no German government has previously, it has been able to achieve clear successes for the Austrian population in this security strategy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Again: The unsafe power plants Bohunice, Kozloduj, Ignalina are closed. With Euratom, a massive shift of resources towards security, towards research, towards renewable energies has succeeded, and with Temelín, Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel and Mr Molterer, Mr Molterer has succeeded in defining the only right strategy on the one hand, and on the other hand in leading to success, namely: to initiate the process of milking and to complete this process successfully. See, what does our former government partner, who before, in the implementation of our resolutions adopted in Austria in consensus, make little success? What's he doing? – the end of consensus policy, which is weakening us abroad, ladies and gentlemen, with the end of reason and with an understanding of the feasibility of a clear pro-EU enlargement policy, which you, Mr Cap, Mr Gusenbauer, and Mr Gusenbauer, who are no longer here, have to be accused of even your MEPs! They leave and remove themselves from the basic idea we have pursued in Europe: The European Union's integration, unity, and within this united Europe, are trying to achieve reasonable positions, to help these positions break through. They all know that neither legal nor consent to the matter at the moment has the opportunity to exercise force in Europe. We don't want that either. We want a Europe that will become a part of it, in consensus and not in dissent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You know our legal possibilities. We have exhausted them to the border, and they have led to success, ladies and gentlemen. I would therefore like to ask all of you to support a motion for a resolution which I am still submitting, because this underlines the line that all four parties in this House have repeatedly reaffirmed on this issue in the past. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially you from the opposition! If you are serious about what you are constantly saying here, please agree to this request and in the future you will give up this double force in your policy, because it will harm the security of the Austrian population!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e14219	The motion for a resolution before us is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e14244	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! I do not want to say here today that what you have answered in your opinion on the urgent request of my colleague, Mr Glawischnig, was both content and rhetorical one of the best answers to a urgent request I have ever heard in this House. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If I had to put this as a commentator to a newspaper or as a journalist in a headline, I would write, Mrs. Glawischnig: Disassembly! Just as you've been demolded here in relation to all that you've said, I haven't experienced anything like that at all. Mr Langthaler is turning outside, because what has happened to you today has rarely happened in this House. - Right! They have acted with falsehoods and half-truths. They have produced semi-truths, particularly in the field of energy research and the Euratom programme, which do not hold. They know that Austrian efforts have made it possible for research in the field of waste treatment and storage to be particularly concentrated on research in the field of radiation protection and training, so that most of these 17 billion schillings you have addressed will serve aftercare purposes. The fact that this Federal Government is true in terms of anti-AKW policy has not least confirmed the entire Green Group in the Federal Council. Mrs Glawischnig! The entire Green Group in the Federal Council has agreed to the request of the Federal Government! What more is needed than the approval of the entire Green Group on the policy being made by this government? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] 100% approval of the Greens in the Federal Council, but you are again criticizing here in the National Council! You must agree now. Who is more right: Me or me? The Bun-desrats fraction or the National Council Group? Now to Mr Cap, who has clearly felt that he is currently out of shape. He has shown yesterday in the "Report" that he is not in form, and his lack of form was again impressively documented today. That's why he suddenly left this hall. [[Call the SPÖ: He's here!]] - Hello! You know that when your group was responsible for the anti-CFC policy in this House, it was limited to calling back and forth in Prague. – "Please wait," she stayed in the waiting loop. And that's what it was. These were your results! Mrs Prammer has translated what was said on the phone. "Please wait" said that! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That was it, Mrs Prammer! Also, according to your reports that you have delivered to us, you have heard again and again: "Please wait." Mrs Prammer! The balance sheet of your anti-atomic policy is noted on this sheet. [[The speaker holds an empty sheet of paper in the Hö-he.]] That's all you've done. This is the balance of your anti-atomic policy. – You know that, and that’s why you look pretty old in this discussion – with engagement. That is why Mr Cap is also trying to pursue this from a relatively far-reaching point of view. [[Abg. Dr. Cap stands between the last bank series]] He understood what the Federal Chancellor read – Joseph, you understood, although it was English! – and whatever the Czechs have confirmed. In short, this means: The Czechs, of course, are looking at what is being negotiated here, and they will also fulfil these conditions before accession to the European Union. No less and no longer has Foreign Minister Kavan expressed in his speech in Brussels; because the Austrian Federal Government has understood how to deposit it in Brussels, not least with the reservation that this energy chapter, if you so often claim otherwise, is not concluded because – and you know this – the final conclusion of the accession agreements will take place at the earliest in spring 2003. Until then, all chapters are negotiable, therefore also the energy chapter, and this in particular because the government parties and the ministers responsible have received a corresponding reservation. [[Abg. Leikam:... popular desires!]] Now to popular desire, you give me the keyword! Because today one pretends that it is so unfrozen to introduce a popular desire, I have once come to know. ==References== In an article in the "Standard" on March 23, it was possible to read that the green speaker Peter Pilz wanted to initiate a popular desire if the government did not prevent the expansion of the border-nearer Temelín AKW. [[Oh-noise at the liberals.]] Peter Pilz wants to initiate an anti-Temelín popular desire! Please bring him a button – can you do that? – so that Mr Pilz is back with those who do exactly what he wanted but did not trust. In 1999, Mr Sima was still a member of the Greenpeace or Global 2000 movement or both. And these two organizations have also considered a popular desire and were only at the end of Mayor Häupl's desire to actually implement this popular desire. Mrs. Sima! I don't know what you two negotiated at the time, but you can think about it. Colleague Cap – and this is a remarkable story for me – which, while turning to this popular desire in Austria, calls for a Europe-wide nuclear poll. A Europe-wide nuclear survey, Mr Cap! We are not doing it where we are responsible, because we have been elected there, no, we are doing it in Europe, you say. We liberals do it in that area for which we have special responsibility: in Austria, and here we do something too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Moving everything to Europe in the knowledge: there I am not responsible!, that is relatively cheap and easy. That's why you're not credible. That's what you showed yesterday in the report. You really looked old in your argument. Today, in your speech just before, you have shown this form again. Mr Cap, in reality we agree: The use of nuclear energy is in the long run uneconomic and always extremely dangerous. It is therefore extremely important to lead the fight against nuclear power plants at their own doorstep, but one should do so in the most responsible area, where one can move something: here in Austria and not at Brussels level, where you do not even have any competitors in your own group, as you were addressed yesterday by means of a letter. Try it with the comrades here! Supports the supremacy of popular desire from 14 to 21. The January of the next year will be for signature! With this, you are doing something in the interest of the Austrian population and with it you are in a good covenant with all those who want to do something for security.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e14352	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e14373	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Environment Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that 60 percent of the population in Austria are dissatisfied with what you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have achieved and are on our side, namely, on that side, which says where it has to go, namely towards European nuclear exodus. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We see ourselves here in this Parliament as a voice tube and as those expressing the desire of the vast majority of the Austrian population. This seems to me to be very important: that the Austrians in their majority have a vote here, which also says that it is essential not only to promote safety standards, but also to call for an action plan to be drawn up and a time-frame for a European nuclear exodus to take place in ten years. It is important, Mr. Bundeskanzler, to give you this to Laeken, to lay the latte in the sense of this 60 percent of the Austrian population. That is essential to us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! I am also very grateful to you for stressing that EurAtom is a nuclear research programme and not a nuclear energy programme. In doing so, you have proved that you are indeed a proponent of nuclear, nuclear research – which in Europe is always useful and targeted for the use of nuclear power as an energy source – whether in the form of nuclear fusion reactors or in the form of the so-called new generation nuclear reactors or in the form of research towards radiation reduction or disposal of nuclear waste. But nuclear research, Federal Chancellor, is nuclear energy support! You made yourself here today and you said: Yes, I am in favour of the funding of nuclear research programmes from Austria. – This is a free letter for the financing of nuclear energy research by Austrian tax money. I am grateful to you for showing your true face here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In other respects too, your statements were very provocative or very clear to me in order to put this to the fore. They have noted that 40 percent of European electricity comes from nuclear power plants. You have found that out and in no way criticised it. That was the jumping point for me. In this respect too, you have shown a neutral attitude towards nuclear policy, perhaps also that of a proponent or at most a quiet critic. And that is certainly too little for the 60 percent of Austrians! That's why we demand more. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you have noticed something else: that, of course, consensus of all is necessary, that efforts are under way and that Austria is constantly making efforts and in part also making successes. – Mr Bundeskanzler! You've negotiated something, I'm admitting it. A negotiated outcome was achieved against the Czech Republic, which was better than before the milking process. No question! We don't complain about that. Only: They had very, very good stockings and cards in their hand, and came out a comparatively matt result! You know, you also said: The Containment isn't solved. There's one thing, but it's not a safe containment. It would have been in your hand that it could have been a success of your negotiations that really comes a safe containment. What's going on now? A review over the five-year period, the year 2004 has already been mentioned. That's a matte result, Mr. Federal Chancellor! There's no trick. Advertise beyond that and there is no inadvertent over it, whether it be just one of the ÖVPs. The listing as such shows that it is not a line of government that sees it as a safe outcome of the negotiations and as the safe path of Austria into the future, to reflect it in some way, but that is the listing of the ÖVP. You are not clear in your own government about this outcome of the negotiations. There is no even one-bright wish and consensus in the government to hang on to the big bell as a common performance, otherwise at least the FPÖ would appear or even pledge the Republic's coat of arms over this listing. But that's – in my sense: Thank God – not the case. Now on a number of other points, which seem to me to be very important. Federal Chancellor! My previous speaker, Glawischnig, has already pointed out that there are various orders from Parliament, several decisions and requests that have been taken together have also been supported by us, but have not been fully fulfilled. That is what I constantly urge: that you do not stick to the full content of what has been democratically made out here, but that you always surrender, take back and finally come home with a minimum consensus, with a minimum result! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is to be avoided in Laeken, therefore our request and our mission. You certainly know better than I do, because you have contact with very relevant circles at EU level that Temelín is a key power plant. No question, it is one of the eleven or twelve safest in Europe, but it is in itself unsafe as a nuclear power plant. But above all, it is the key project towards retrofitting, modernisation of old East-AKWs. At last, the western European nuclear companies have found a field where they can continue to invest in nuclear policy, where they can continue to invest in nuclear energy and in this way not only extend life-times, create new security risks, but can reestablish themselves in the end-effect. What is no longer possible in Western Europe will be possible in Eastern Europe: to expand atomicly. You contribute to this by concluding a contract with the Czech Republic that brings us a minimum result, not the security result, but only a minimum result. That is why we reject it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, another special for Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol. You know the Trojan sayings, there is the Trojan horse, concrete "Aenais" of Vergil. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: In Greek!]] This agreement, signed by Zeman and Kussel, is a Danaer gift: "Timeo danaos et dona ferentes". Mr. Klubobmann! Remember that such a result, such a Trojan horse – you will be very bad at it yourself; he has sniffs or gets it; [[Abg. Dr. Khol sneezes]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Böhacker: So you're not a doctor!]] God forbid, I wish him of course health, no question; I wish him of course health [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I don't have a sniff, but I'm allergic and beginning to sneeze on such statements!]] – You should look forward to it earlier and take preventive anti-allergic drugs, but I would have advised you not to accept such contracts. Our proposal would be the right way to go, would be the right answer and is the only way towards pan-European exit, especially in this case. You should finally take this path in the sense of the 60 percent of Austrians! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e14504	President. — The debate is closed. The time to speak in the debate on the urgent request is also maximum 10 minutes for members of the government. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e14525	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on some of the issues raised in the debate. Mrs Glavischnig, you have also referred to legal implementation today. I would like to once again explain them, because this is a very, very important point for all of us. The starting point is that in the European Councils in Cologne and Helsinki, Austria has reached that the question of nuclear safety is, for the first time, a matter relating to the enlargement of the European Union. This has never been the case before and is an essential breakthrough, which has also made it possible for three high-risk reactors to be closed – which is also implemented in a contractual manner – and you know that for seven other vehicles concrete retrofitting conditions are formulated, which are also legally implemented. Austria wasn't enough. We have therefore said that all seven security points and the 21 EIA points at Temelín must be implemented legally. The basis for this is the milking process. Now in monitoring by Austria and the Czech Republic and through peer review and through the legal commitment after accession everything you, my dear Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, have called for legal and mandatory implementation. - That's the one thing. The second point was raised by Mrs Glavischnig, by Mrs Moser and by Mrs Petrovic: the Road Map. In the Road Map is very precise, until what needs to be fulfilled. Don't wake up to better knowing – because I explained this to you on Monday evening in conversation with the clubmen – the impression that it will only start in 2004. No, no, no, The Commission will also implement monitoring by Austria and the Czech Republic and where the Commission is involved. Stay with what is in the schedule, and with the truths contained therein. Furthermore, I would like to address the question of safety standards, Mrs Glawischnig. I don't understand your argument at all. They are suddenly beginning to criticize that the Austrian Federal Government in Europe wants to achieve nuclear safety standards at a uniformly high level. – Now I don’t understand the world! What do you want? Do you want what the Austrian Parliament has commissioned us to do, or do you not want to? We take Parliament's mandate seriously and support these safety standards, and I am sure that we will have the necessary success in the medium term too. Mrs Moser, I have to tell you now: I really find your argument as to the question of Euratom and the research framework programme to be grotesque. In this research framework programme, we have achieved a reduction in nuclear research resources and a massive increase in resources for sustainable energy, for nutrition, for health, for the environment, for climate change. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: Do you want research not to be conducted in the field of radiation protection? Do you want research not to be carried out in the field of radioactive waste, for example? Look It is very precise, ladies and gentlemen, what Austria has achieved in this context: in the question of reducing the amount of waste from nuclear energy, in the question of "management of radioactive wastes", in the matter of radiation protection, in the matter of research on safety, the environmental impact, the use of resources, the prevention of the spread of nuclear material. That's what we've achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, stick to what is reality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And as far as the ten years are concerned: Ladies and gentlemen, explain to me why the Greens here in Parliament are talking about an exit period of ten years and the German Minister for the Environment Trittin, who is known to be Greener, celebrates it as a success that in Germany the exit scenario is on average 32 years and can last up to 50 years in the final effect! [[Abg. Head: Ui, that's long!]] Ladies and gentlemen, how do you explain this? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] I have experienced Jürgen Trittin, whom I very much appreciate, in the question of Temelín. I've experienced how Trittin told me he's going to get out of the "Melker Process" – the result of which he now welcomes. Madam honourable Members, you have to clarify this with your friends in Europe, just like Mr Cap, who has to answer the question as it is possible for him to give such a speech here. I do not consider the quality of this to be what citizens should do. In any case, however, their assessment is carried out by Mrs Berger, by Mr Swoboda and by the President of the National Council of Fischer. Member of the European Parliament, we will measure the weight of SPÖ in Europe by how Jospin and Tony Blair will behave on the issue of EU-wide nuclear exodus and in the debate on nuclear safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e14578	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Sima. The clock is set to 7 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e14619	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Umweltminister! High house! Let me clarify a few things at the beginning of my speech. Mr Schweitzer has repeatedly, and again today again, meant that in my time at Global 2000 we were thinking of carrying out a veto-popular desire. This is an incorrect fact, which is also due to a thousand times repeated... [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: "An incorrect fact" – excellent! Last time I heard that from a football player!]] No, that is unfair, and this is certainly not true by a thousand times of repetition, Mr Westenthaler. The second thing I'd be interested in – and maybe you can answer it right away, since you're so talkative today: Why Needed You are still a veto popular desire, if Mr Schweitzer has already explained to us all the time how great the anti-atomic policy of the Federal Government is? What do you want to do if you are satisfied with all the results that have been achieved here? Mr Westenthaler, perhaps you can take a look at this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to point out, Mr Kopf, that the ÖVP has obviously had something like a collective memory wound in the meantime. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't say "unrighteous facts"!]] To stand here, to point out the opposition and to claim that we would endanger the integrity of European enlargement and even have a coalition partner in the boat, who is swinging the Vetoceules here, in the most aggressive way to perform a popular desire, that is absurd, please! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is an "unrighteous fact"!]] Take a look at your own doorstep, and convert your coalition partner, and then get in touch with us! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But that was an "unrighteous fact"!]] Mr Westenthaler, I am pleased that I have been able to contribute to your awakening, but I would like to say something to you: We will judge you according to your anti-atomic policy. And your anti-atomic policy of the past few weeks, which you have to show here, is a single game of mourning and no fame. You have completed the Energy Chapter with the Czech Republic on this Monday, even if this is something you do not want to see true. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is an "unrighteous fact"!]] I understand, because that does not fit into your political line and is a special blamage for the liberals in particular. Now you're in the government, and what are you doing? They accept Temelín and this outcome of the negotiations in its full scope and at the same time want to explain to the population that Temelín would be prevented by veto popular desire. You don't believe that any more, that's totally unbelievable! [[Abg. Murauer: What are you doing now?]] On the other hand, this EURATOM research programme was approved on Monday. That's also something that hurts me personally. We've already heard: It is about 17 billion schilling, 500 million of which are from Austrian taxpayers. And the lion share, Minister Molterer – and you know that very well – of this research programme, which is 9.6 billion, is going into fusion research. That is to say, we are financing today the reactors of the future, which we probably have to fight again sometime when they stand at your doorstep. They are financed by Austrian taxpayers! – And you want to sell this to us as the big milestone of the Austrian anti-atomic policy? Please, that's ridiculous, no one believes you anymore! Not enough with it: Mr Schweitzer and Mr Westenthal also want to inform us here that there would be no conclusion of the energy chapter at all! This is the sad culmination of the nuclear debate in recent weeks. There's no degree at all, we always hear. Clearly, this is the new strategy of the larger coalition party. But I'll tell you one thing: You can't do it on Monday, 10. ==References====External links==* Official website Putting down January and say: Now we are making a veto popular desire against our own government policy! That is not credible, and you will not lose the population! You already have to drive a slightly more consistent line in your Temelín policy, if you just want to have some success with it. [[Abg. Wenitsch: You!]] They are truly responsible for giving up the last trump in the fight against Temelín. And that's what I'm really asking you to do, because we never expected anything else from the ÖVP. You have always spit great tones on this thing, and now you have given up the fight against Temelín de facto! A sad highlight – I really want to address this particularly, because this process has personally shaken me – in this whole debate was a release of the Freedom Press Service, after which a journalist who reported on Ö3 about the provisional conclusion of the Energy Chapter in Brussels immediately before the Press Council and I do not know where it was quoted, because Mr Westenthaler has found that does not correspond to the truth. You want to create a virtual reality about Temelín here. They simply want to deny that there is the conclusion of the Energy Chapter, and anyone who says the truth or tries to tell it truthfully is simply bowed down. And I think that is absolutely unacceptable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let us take a look at the many famous solutions; it has already been addressed: What about the pipelines? This is one of the biggest problems, because when such a pipeline is in place, a very large nuclear accident can occur. Or: the 28.8-metre stage. There is a review here, then a report has to be submitted, and the Czech authorities will then decide in September 2002 whether to take action or not. And that's exactly the problem: With all this security package, which the Federal Chancellor always sells to us as the solution of all seven security questions, no one security question is solved – not one! The Czech side can implement this paper to a hundred percent and does not have to put in place a single security measure. That's just too little for us! We don't let any mogel packs of you push us here, that's just too little for us! We want a real solution for Temelín, and that is why we are so critical about this outcome of the negotiations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: What solution?]] The problem is that in all these measures the final decision is with the Czech side. That is, all decisions, whether something is happening or not, are taken by the Czech side. And that's exactly the problem with this paper: Nothing will happen! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Your socialist brothers are ruling in the Czech Republic!]] The Czech side does not even have to paint a lever in this nuclear power station green and still fulfills your paper. And that's exactly the problem. You're trying to make some furores with a mogel pack, and you have a coalition partner who's drumming for a veto popular desire in January. So I have to say, you've already brought it quite far in anti-atomic policy. I can only say that it is a sobering balance sheet that we have to draw over the last few weeks... – Mr Kiss, have you ever read the paper? [[Abg. Kiss: I think so!]] [[Abg. Kiss: But where! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I think that's so great at all: You sit here and you want to explain something to me, and I'm sure you didn't even look at it. [[Abg. Kiss: I don't know!]] – Of course you don’t know, I know that anyway! That is why you also believe that the security issues have been solved, but that unfortunately does not correspond to the truth. So please make the effort and read it through! I can highly recommend Annex I – although it is in English, it is certainly also feasible for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In the short term: We have already mentioned this today that neither the Anti-Atom Action Plan nor various resolutions have been implemented in this House. I think it is time for the Federal Government to put on the table now, as one imagines, that it should continue with the Austrian anti-atomic policy. The safety standards are a possible goal, but that can't be everything. I believe that EURATOM is also one of the really important crack points if you want to achieve something at European level. I would be interested in how you intend to proceed here from the Federal Government, because the results of the last few weeks can certainly not please us. [[Abg. Kiss: Ask me!]] – Read the paper, Mr Kiss! Okay?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e14850	The next speaker is Mr Kukacka. The clock is set to 7 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e14871	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Sima and ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! If you are honest today, I think you really must admit that with your urgent request you have experienced a embarrassing disaster, the embarrassing disaster of an orientational environmental policy. [[Abg. Oillinger: We are always honest, not just today!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Federal Chancellor and the Minister for the Environment also gave you a lesson and showed you what it means to argue professionally and politically seriously, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Edlinger: With two "e"!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I hope that will in future prevent you from joining the speaker's desk in a similarly unqualified manner and biting the head of government into the Wadl in this form. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] In doing so, I believe, Mrs Glavischnig, you have been proven, and you are now quite toothless in the area, Mrs Colleague! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Wadling without teeth is not possible!]] A reasonable, acceptable alternative to the government course was not recognizable. It is clear that you did not require this alternative that only what the government has done was factually convincing and politically enforceable, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You know, all other demands up to Vetodroung would not solve the security problem, it would not make Temelín any more secure, it would not come to closing the power plant, but Austria would be isolated. I mean – and here you too are called on – that we need to call for stronger European solidarity than before. That would be a task that you should be convincing: not always here in the house and in the public criticise the government, but try to win European alliance partners in the other countries, ladies and gentlemen! Here you could acquire earnings around Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Where have the Greens and their protests been when the Federal Republic of Germany completed its energy chapter with the Czech Republic – without Temelín retrofitting, without any contractual solution, as we have enforced, without raising this issue at EU level? Where were you, ladies and gentlemen? Is not Temelín also dangerous for the Federal Republic of Germany if it is dangerous for Austria? Where did the greens stay? Where did you tell the Minister for the Environment of the Federal Republic of Germany? Where have you called for fishermen to act accordingly at European level? - Nothing you've done! You're silent! You are unbelievable in your anti-atomic policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] And where else have you used your political possibilities of your supposed good relations? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What do you say to Temelín?]] This applies to the Greens – to France, which also has Green Ministers in the Government – as to you, ladies and gentlemen from the Social Democrats and colleague Cap. What about your socialist friends in the Socialist International? Yes, for God's sake, why didn't you put up with it?- Oh, my God! We know why: because there are nuclear advocates everywhere: Jospin, Schröder, Tony Blair. In all these countries, nuclear power plants are still running, and they are at least as dangerous as Temelín, ladies and gentlemen. You have not said a word publicly on this subject so far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Why didn't Pühringer put up with the government?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Do not criticize the government that there is no uniform opinion here! Create First of all, you have a uniform opinion in the opposition! You are not even able to establish a single line in your own party, ladies and gentlemen. You have no moral right to attack us here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Do Pühringer know what you're saying here?]] I don't need to quote Mr Rauscher – or should I do it anyway to annoy you? – "The great opposition party did not know where. Cap and Gusenbauer know that a decommissioning was not and is not in it, but they allowed themselves to be pushed from their own environmental-foundi wing and the prospect of a few sculptures in the ‘Krone’ in this direction." – Ladies and gentlemen! This analysis should not be added. I do not need to tell you what Mrs Coudenhove-Kalergi said. In fact, it said in its article: "The ÖVP has done what it could, namely, excellently negotiate..." And then she writes: "With its Temelín policy, the great opposition party has not provided convincing proof of its governance. (...) People who offer themselves as government alternatives are expected more than protests against ‘social cold’. Responsibility is expected, wherever it comes to it. (...) And Alfred Gusenbauer has missed an opportunity to prove himself as a politician with format." Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is what independent commentators write to you in the main book, and you should take this to heart for the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What Mr Hannes Swoboda said about the course of his own party is not exactly for you, even as a clubman, who is not able to establish a single line in the Social Democratic Party. Swoboda says: I think it's right what the government has done. "But that we, the SPÖ, are now getting into the populist trap, I think this is extremely problematic." Yes, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, and then stand down and criticize the Freedom Party!Unknown term type: "%s".? Why don't you start with your own party? In this, you yourself are accused of doing what you blame others. You are unbelievable in your anti-atomic policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying something about popular desire. We are very critical of this popular desire – from which we have never made a locust, we have always expressed it clearly. We believe that this planned popular desire can also be misused as a party-tactic maneuver by politically exploiting the fears of the citizens. We mean – and we say that clearly and clearly – a popular desire is primarily an instrument of citizens and not an instrument of a party. A party does not need a popular desire, because five Members have the right to make a request with the same content here in the house, which must be dealt with accordingly. That is why we also believe that this popular desire is a very dubious mixture of direct democratic fundamental rights and that what a party has in any case a constitutional right to do. That is why, as a People's Party, we will not support this popular desire, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But, of course, it is the right of every citizen to use this instrument if he considers it useful and if he considers it necessary, and we, of course, respect it as a People's Party. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] We believe that the People's Party in Anti-Atom Policy has an objective, a constructive, a realistic line. We focus on the politically feasible, with hardness and eye-to-eye, and that is why we have done everything we can to achieve the highest safety standards and their legal anchorage. In this sense, we believe that what was politically necessary and feasible was achieved with this Treaty and that the Federal Government has brought out the best for Austria. That is why we believe that the whole House should be fully behind this line of the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15081	The next speaker was Mrs Achatz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15102	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Kukacka, I would like to point out to you that this popular desire has not been made by Members of this House, but that 17 000 citizens have signed this request. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also reject the accusation of the abuse of popular desire by the Freedom Party to the most decisive. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: I didn't say that!]] I would like to point out that, for example, in Switzerland – and I think one can say that democracy in Switzerland is very far-reaching – almost every week a popular survey takes place, and since it will be legitimate for the people to be questioned on such an important topic in Austria too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it has already been interesting to see how difficult the opposition is to recognize a big step towards Temelín's security by the Federal Government. The fact that this cannot be the end is not at all a question, but that a big step has been taken and a success of the Federal Government has also been achieved, it cannot really be disputed, because what the Federal Government has now done has not done together before. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But what did you do?]] I would like to ask myself one more question, Mr Cap: How can one make a final conclusion from a preliminary conclusion? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's what Verheugen says!]] – After the Verheugen has already said more stupidity, Mr. Cap! You don't need to think about everything. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Is also a Social Democratic!]] That is simply not true, as he said, because the last vote, Mr Cap, on accession is taking place here in this House. This has not happened now, it will still take place here in this House. I'm really wondering: What has the SPÖ done in the direction of Europe's nuclear exodus or in the field of Temelín so far? - Nothing! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: More than the government!]] [[Abg. Vienna: Zero!]] What have you done across the EU? Mr Cap, where is the support of the Social Democrats and the Greens of Austria in the fight against Temelín? Where? One time Mr Trittin spoke, and then he actually kept silent forever. There was no word from the Social Democrats. On the contrary: Commissioner Verheugen of the SPD could not go fast enough. He wanted to put Temelín into operation. He didn't go fast enough. Why, Mr Cap and Mr Gusenbauer – he has been missing over hours – do you not benefit from your alleged good contacts in the EU in the interests of the security of Austria? You, Mr Gusenbauer, were so eager to travel in Europe during the time of sanctions. But it is a question of courage and love of home country, of being in use for Austria and of winning allies in the fight against Temelín and against nuclear power plants within the European Union. Courage and commitment to Austria would also have been in demand within the Socialist International, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ – and not to approach and beat the people of the past and punishers on their shoulders. That's what you've done so far. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I can Your failure to act in this way, Mr. Cap, explains that within the SPÖ you are simply unorientated in the matter of Temelín, and you have always been. Apart from the fact that the opposition has the most serious shortcomings to answer at Temelín – because the topic of Temelín has been in place for many years, Mr. Cap, and you just haven't done anything – no one knows about the SPÖ line anymore: Gusenbauer is against the conclusion of the energy chapter with the Czech Republic before the safety criteria have been implemented. - We too! But we're honest enough to call the child by name and say: Veto – until that happens! – Gusenbauer and Cap criticize us of being free for vetoing, but at the same time, Mr Cap, you are now proposing a supposed departure from vetoing! So what's now? If the veto is bad and evil, then it can't be bad and evil. You already need an explanation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Inconsistency. – President Fischer, Deputies Swoboda, Deputies Berger of the SPÖ are different from Cap and Sima. It is quite similar with the greens: The Federal Council agrees with the request of the Federal Government – you criticise the request here. But I can calm you all from the SPÖ and the Greens: There is a possibility for all Austrians, including those from the SPÖ and the Greens, to raise their votes against Temelín. If the zero variant is your concern, just sign the popular desire! They will be in the best society of committed nuclear opponents. Thousands will sign this popular desire, and they will give the Federal Government a mandate. We are sure that the Federal Government will act within the meaning of the Constitution, and it must. Our constitution states: Right goes from the people.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15269	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15290	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a bit difficult to remain content, according to the comments of Mrs Achatz, because... [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: A real word!]] [[Abg. That's right!]] I would, however, like to address a few points. You said we could all sign the popular desire against Temelín. Of course we could. We will certainly not, for you know, just as we know, that this is a popular desire against the Czech Republic and its accession to the European Union – and not one against Temelín. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Achatz: This is an injunction!]] If you first explain to us that this was good, what the Federal Chancellor and Czech Prime Minister Zeman achieved, that this was an important step, and then you make a popular desire against Temelín, then it is certainly clear – and you know it very well – that this popular desire should prevent the accession of the Czech Republic and that this popular desire will never and never prevent Temelín. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You are for Temelín! Admit it!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Admit it: You are for Temelín! You haven't been a green party for a long time!]] On the statement "in best society": Do not be angry with me, but in the company of the liberal heads of state Kabas, Windholz and also Achatz – no thank you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: You are for Temelín!]] A word about the constant criticism, the Green Environment Ministers in Germany and France would do nothing. Unfortunately, the Greens are nowhere alone in the government. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Thank God, otherwise there would be 20 more nuclear power plants!]] If that were the case, then there would have been a nuclear exodus in all the countries of Europe for a long time. But now addressed to the ÖVP: Do you know when there would be a nuclear exodus in Germany if the CDU were in government? – On the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, not! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Faster!]] I have, in fact, been very confirmed by the correctness and importance of our request, which we are discussing now. If both the Federal Chancellor and the representatives of the government groups cannot do anything but, above all, my colleague Glavischnig and the other colleagues as well as our request to always accuse us, we are inaccurate that these are false statements, and that is not true if you have no other way of responding to our objectively based request, then you simply lack the arguments. That's it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This simply proves that the anti-atomic policy that the Federal Government is making is too little. And I agree with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany when he says that anti-atomic policy is too little, that more pro-policy must be done. That's right. But where is she? Where, for example, is a policy per renewable energy that could be used in the EURATOM Treaty to reform the priorities there and that this is happening in the direction of renewable energy? Do you know what happened in the European Parliament? – Your political group members, Mrs Stenzel & Co, have agreed that €100 million in addition to the nuclear fusion in the Treaty, although the green Commissioner Schreyer had already managed to get these €100 million away. No, the ÖVP delegates agreed to provide an additional €100 million for the nuclear fusion. - Well, that's wonderful! This is your policy, your anti-atomic policy, Mr. Federal Chancellor, the politics of your party, Mr. Klubobmann Khol, although you are hugely inserting – for expensive money; whether it be "only", under quotation marks, for the money of your party and not the government – what you do not do everything. [[Abg. Steibl: This is true and real!]] A little bit more to the nuclear exodus. I think it is very strange that the members of the Liberal Group here defend the EURATOM Treaty, while in the European Parliament your Members, Raschhofer and Kronberger, who are still known for their commitment to renewable energy, voted against it and said that clearly. I can only say: The disorientation you are always talking about is not given at the opposition, but is clearly present between the government groups and the Federal Government. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the Deputies Gradwelt and Oberhaidinger.]] I would like to mention another point that concerns the fact that in Laeken not only the anti-atomic policy or the nuclear exit is on the agenda, but also something at least as important, namely the future of the EU. Mr Bundeskanzler, let me say this again: It was quite typical again! They did not want to discuss their own meeting of the Laeken Committee, but all together: Temelin and Laeken. And Laeken was not even discussed in the main committee. Only my colleague Lichtenberger asked a few questions, and there were some general answers from you. But something like a position paper on how, from your point of view, the Federal Government should look at the democratisation of the EU, what the Convention should look like, did not exist. On such matters you simply do not want to decide, even if there have already been many discussions about this, for example in the National Council, in the Redout Hall and so on. But if you decide and first discuss with Parliament what this is supposed to be, you do not want to do so. They want to negotiate secretly and then come and say: That's what we've achieved, wonderful! – This policy, Federal Chancellor, is not a very European one! This is not a way of making European policy transparent in Austria, either in terms of anti-atomic policy or in terms of democratisation of the EU. If you really want to do European anti-atomic policy, you agree with the proposal, take it to Laeken, and tell us what you really did!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15493	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15514	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Upper Austrian Members, as a whole, should not have been very pleased with the comments made by Mr Kukacka. I would recommend that you take my colleague Kukacka to a demonstration in front of Wolnowitz. I think that this demonstration will then dissolve very quickly, because people will realize that there is no point in demonstrating with the ÖVP against Temelín or the commissioning of Temelín. You've only made the government the wall, but what people in Upper Austria think and what they really want, that's you – you've proved it – pretty indifferent, colleague Kukacka. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You're an atomic lobbyist yourself! The greatest atomic lobbyist!]] I can only say to Mr Achatz's contribution that she has been happy and, as a matter of fact, has always been silent so far. Perhaps inspired by the fact that Landesrat Achatz has brought in the popular desire or was a co-initiator of popular desire, she has reported herself to speak today. But maybe you can leave it, colleague Achatz. Karl Schweitzer has at least some knowledge on this subject. I missed this one with you today. To invite you to sign your popular desire. Ladies and gentlemen! We can't make it clear enough often: We are and have always been for the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU! We are clear about EU enlargement, and we are not being abused here in any way. We do not need Temelín as an excuse to prevent the Czech Republic from joining the EU, as the liberals are trying to do. What we do is: We perceive the fears of the people. We take them as they are, and we don't play with them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we have called on those responsible in the Federal Government to take advantage of all the possibilities that make Temelín safer. And of course, Temelín is the safest thing if it doesn't go into operation at all. But, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that in the Czech Republic this is not so much a question of political responsibility, but rather it is an economic question. That is why our request in our motion for a resolution, which unfortunately you have not been able to join, was that the zero option should be calculated again – by the way, Mr Kukacka, who decided unanimously the Upper Austrian Parliament last week. Unfortunately, I have to say that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has given up this demand relatively generously during the negotiations in Brussels. Those who in the corresponding series of the "standard" have been a little concerned with what will happen in the Czech Republic in the near future in the electricity industry, ladies and gentlemen, who has read about the sales intentions of the Czech Republic, the Czech Federal Government, could find that 67 percent of ČEZ should be sold. There are three major state nuclear power companies that are interested in this and also have great opportunities for the award. The Electricité de France is once again at the front. It is likely to receive the award. This is, by the way, a procedure that the International Energy Agency is strongly criticised. It criticises the Czech Government's practice, for example, because it intends to sell the shares together both in the electricity supply and in the power grid operator. What this means is that everyone who has a bit of power management, is aware of the transport of electricity. In other words, ČEZ and its future majority owners will be able to control the Czech electricity market as a whole in the future and will have competition throughout the supply chain accordingly. Mr Marizzi and I wrote to Commissioner Monti almost two and a half years ago on the subject of cost-truth – a very essential point when we discuss the exit from nuclear power – and asked him to examine the issue of cost-truth. We argued that it should not be seen that two state nuclear power companies socialize their costs and are highly subsidized under the title "Research" from defence budgets. And in addition, ladies and gentlemen, on the European market, these companies are going to buy up and take part in the electricity markets. I very much regret that we still have no Austrian electricity solution. For example, a strong Austrian electricity player would be able to participate in the sale in the Czech Republic, participate in a consortium, and thus in the longer term we could certainly better influence the development of Czech energy policy than currently. I believe – and this is also a call to the Federal Government – that the proposed electricity share sale in the Czech Republic should also be checked out on the basis of antitrust considerations. Indeed, the applicant countries are required to adapt in accordance with the law, so it should be possible in advance to clarify this question. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, I am still pleading for our constant demand for Europe's exit from nuclear power, including what is going on in the East and in the future accession countries. I think we are in the right situation at the moment. ==References== No one can agree on September that nuclear power plants can really be protected effectively from terrorist attacks. I think we should use this situation accordingly in the sense of security for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15565	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Glawischnig. Time left: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15626	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I'm just holding on: The voices that have now become loud with your speakers leave a clear conclusion: You will reject Austria's commitment to the Laeken Council to use the highest possible safety standards as nuclear tools, you will reject a resolution of the EURATOM Treaty, and you will reject the fact that there should be a European exit fund, for the funds now intended for the nuclear industry. You're going to reject all of this now. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Will be approved You, on the other hand – please listen for a moment! – just one: a consistent further continuation of the path taken, a consistent continuation of the path of the failure of the last weeks and months. – I say: After good night! Good luck, Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15668	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the self-employed amendment 566/A (E) by Dr Glawischnig, colleagues and colleagues on an Austrian initiative for an nuclear exodus in Europe at the EU summit in Laeken. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Khol, Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the consistent continuation of the Austrian anti-atomic policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 113.) Short debate on the response to the question 2859/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15721	We are now entering a brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry with the order number 2859/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Comments of members of the Federal Government or State Secretarys, as reported, should also not last for more than 10 minutes. I am now looking for Mrs Mag. Sima, take the floor. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15755	Mr President! Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! We now have the first BSE case in Austria, and from this point of view I would like to express once again my particular concern about it. I know that it is a very unpleasant and bad situation for the farmers concerned to be affected by the first BSE case in Austria. Austria has long hoped to remain spared from this fate. Now, unfortunately, we have been taught a better person. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Just one case!]] We have tried to address the issue of BSE with the debate on this question, because the government representatives themselves rejected a statement and debate, even though we then had something like an BSE debate during the economic debate. In any case, we have tried to address this question today, which seems to us very important and central. Ladies and gentlemen! It is to be feared that this BSE case is a consequence of the failure of the past. We simply have to put this fear in the room. As you all know, the exact causes are not yet clarified. However, if you can believe the expert – and I believe that Professor Budka is one of the most renowned experts in this field – you have to take note of what he said yesterday, namely that the most likely explanation for this first BSE case is a transmission by feed and that the spontaneous occurrence of BSE cases, as is well represented by the Federal Government, is rather not acceptable, that there is no scientific evidence and there is no evidence of it in any way. Ladies and gentlemen! As you know – and this is also reflected in the answer we want to discuss and discuss today – the animal meal feeding ban, which has been in force in Austria for over ten years, has unfortunately not reached 100 percent. I think that's a problem we have to deal with. I too can only suspect, because we all do not know the exact reason for this BSE case, and perhaps we will never get to know him either. But it is in the area of the possibility that the experts also believe that precisely this non-compliance animal meal feeding ban on ruminants can be one of the reasons why we also have to deal with this problem now. What shakes me personally, honestly, is that this response to the question shows relatively clearly that in cattle feed, that is, in feed for ruminants in 1998, 1999, but also in 2000 traces of animal meal have been found. These are small traces, I admit, they are less than 0.5 percent, but animal meal traces have nevertheless been found in 9 percent of all cattle feed samples. This is not exactly a small proportion, and the trend is increasing: Last year it was already 13 percent, averaged 9 percent. As you all know, animal meal in the feed of ruminants is currently considered the most likely trigger of BSE. And the bad thing about the whole thing is that it's something system-immanent. That is to say, it was not a random pollution that just happened this way, but it is pollution that simply has to do with the system of feed production in Austria. The problem was, there was a division: Although there was a ban on animal meal for ruminants, there was no ban on chickens and pigs and other animals. And since the two types of feed were produced in the same feed mill, there were obviously mixtures, and the traces of this mixture are then found in the feed for ruminants. And that's our problem. Federal Minister Molterer! You must already have the question: Why didn't you ring the alarm bells? The figures have obviously been known to you. Why didn't you do something about it? Why didn't you say: This does not work in Austria, we still have traces of animal meal in cattle feed, which is not a good solution, even if it is only below 0.5 percent. Why didn't your department call for something to do about it? We either need to find another type of processing in the feed sector – with interim rinses or what I know; there are certainly technical solutions – or we have to ban the animal meal in general, because this prohibition on feeding does not work. I would like to refer once again to the small amount of animal meal. Of course you can say: That was just so little, it couldn't have been. – But I would like to point out once again that very little is known about BSE at scientific level. You don't even know the exact trigger, you don't know how it is transmitted, you haven't found any genetic information about how it reproduces in any way. That means no one can say how large the amount of animal meal must be so that it can trigger something like that. Therefore, as I believe, any contamination of feed with animal meal that can still be demonstrated is a problem that really belongs to. I know we've been since 1. A general ban on animal meal this year. But the question is: how long? because we all know that at EU level the discussion is going in a different direction again. Another question I would like to address is: Why has there been only 437 samplings in three years? – This seems to me personally, honestly, very little. In view of the many cattle there are in Austria, I find 437 samples specific to the... – Please, this is in the request answer, even if you shake the head: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] 437 samples were drawn over the three years with regard to the examination of bovine feed for animal meal. Even if you shake your head, it's in there. You can read it. Mr Molterer answered that. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hornek.]] To be honest, I think it's a little bit: For example, 200 samples were drawn in 2000. This does not rip me off the stool in the face of a very serious problem, just like animal meal traces in ruminants' feed. - Perhaps you can answer that, Minister of State. What is the situation in 2001? I'd be interested in that too. Since the total ban on animal meal, the percentage should be zero, there should be no more contamination at all. You may be able to address this later, Minister. I noticed another point. We have also made the same request to Minister Head, because of course we have also been interested: What has been checked on the farms? So to speak, what was the result of the on-site sampling? The agricultural sector is in fact responsible for trade, while the Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible for sampling on the ground. However, I have not received a single number from Mr Haupt as an answer, which I already regard as quite alarming, because there are two possible explanations for this: Either these on-the-spot checks on the farms are not recorded – and that would be the better variant – or there were simply no feed checks on-site on the farms, and I would be interested now: What does that mean? . Since you are already here, Prime Minister, perhaps you would be so nice to go about it. I also took your answer from the fact that you did not carry out the checks on farms until 31 December. ==References====External links== – Does that mean that there were no controls before, or has there been controls, and they were not uniform and simply regulated by a decree? – These two possibilities exist. Other concerns, of course, also concern me with the still unresolved competence problem within the framework of the indirect federal administration. You know, in the past, we've criticized this more often. There is no solution in itself in sight. The only thing I always hear from the government is: Food agency. But first of all, it is still a long way off, and secondly, it will not really help us with the problems of competence, because a change in skills is not foreseen by the Food Agency either. Finally, I would like to refer briefly to an EU report you know. There was an inspection visit of the EU Food and Veterinary Office from 5 to 9. In February, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the Unfortunately, what is stated in this report is quite a reluctance for Austria. Let me just present a few quotes, because when this report was published in September, I was actually shocked that there was hardly any response from the government. For example: The basic rules for preventing cross-contamination – that is the contamination of normal feed with animal flour – were not observed in the visited fut-term. And it goes on to say: When contaminated meat/bone meal has arrived on the Austrian market, it cannot be excluded that animals have come into contact with the BSE pathogen because the feeding ban has not been effectively monitored. That's not what I'm saying, that's what the EU Commission has been saying, and that's what she's been saying since September! And I am afraid that we are now getting the bill presented, and also that Austria has not responded adequately to it. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say that I consider it essential that this ban on animal feed be extended for an indefinite period of time – in Austria, but also at EU level – because otherwise, if we re-enter this ban, we will experience the next BSE wave that will roll on us. I would also like to call on you to introduce stricter controls in the feed sector and to really consider the veterinary medicinal products control law which we are going to discuss in detail tomorrow. I think, given the current developments, it would be a real mistake to really transfer the veterinary care in the area of farms – such as vaccination and medication - to the farmers. I think that this is a serious, serious strategic mistake, which will once again fall very much on our mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15816	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15837	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have already had the opportunity to comment in principle on this not gratifying development that, after 217,000 negative cases in Austria, we now have a BSE case. In a farm in the Waldviertel... – Deputies Schieder! [[The microphone's out.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: But this is not the ORF!]] I was there in Brussels when these pans happened. I therefore know what happened. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Then you will give me accompaniment!]] I have already reported on this farm today, on this well-run farm. To date, we do not know – and this has to be stated quite openly; my colleague, too, has already said this today – what the final causes will be. But you can be sure that we will do everything we can to explain the causes, because we too have the greatest interest in exploring the causes in terms of consumer safety and safety for farmers. You have asked several questions, Mrs Sima. They first referred to the report by the EU Commission on the inspection of February of this year. In the meantime, another inspection visit has taken place, whose written result we do not yet know. We have drawn attention to the fact that this visit, an inspection visit, in particular, is subject to three issues of a review and evaluation: the implementation of Community protection measures against BSE – in particular the issue of risk material removal – and, moreover, compliance with the ban on the use of animal proteins: Animal meal – in the feeding of farm animals, and, of course, third, also the question of the general feeding ban in this context. So far, we have had an oral discussion which has in itself shown that we have carried out the legal implementation in a timely and correct manner, without gaps, that we have also carried out the recovery action at that time – you remember – properly, and we have put emphasis on the fact that this inspection visit also goes to a compound feed manufacturer so that the inspectors can also take a picture on the spot. We will, of course, have to evaluate the written report if it is available in the appropriate form. We have also responded to your question, Madam President. In addition to the fact that we are well-known to have declared the ban on animal feed for ruminants in 1990 – five years before the European Union did so – we have, of course, also called for the general ban on animal feed in the European Union and supported it massively and implemented it at the same time as Europe. It must be noted from my point of view as regards the feed samples that I have ordered that 800 samples will be drawn in addition to this year – I emphasize: in addition! – in order to ensure that around 2,400 checks are carried out in the field of trade and on-site operations in 2001. To the number of 437 samples you have referred to, I must say that it is true that these are those samples that have been taken in the trade – i.e., with the manufacturers – with only reference to the ruminants. However, you also have to say that there are, of course, the large batches that are actually produced in compound feed farms, so that from the number of samples, it is not possible to close back to the total sampled amount of animal meal. You can be sure that we will use the increase in the number of samples to ensure that control is also carried out in the agricultural farms, including the supplemental feed and also where own mixes are carried out, because this is quite common in the agricultural structure in Austria. We have therefore also done everything in the field of feed, which is possible for us to bear in mind that feed could continue to be a risk potential. In the future, from my point of view, we will continue to do our best with regard to the issue of the ban on animal feed so that there will not be any evasion in Europe. However, I tell you – and you know this – that the EU Commission, namely the Directorate-General SANCO, the Directorate-General for Health, and EU countries such as Finland and Sweden, are massively opposed to the general ban on feeding. In contrast to Austria, these countries have also made use of the derogation, i.e. the derogation from the general ban. We in Austria have remained in the general ban. With regard to the question of relations, I would like to say that: We have drawn the samples by statistical-scientific method. This is indeed an efficient and very target-oriented approach to preventing risk potentials with the greatest possible probability. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As soon as the date for a Committee on Agriculture is set – and I hope it will be as soon as possible – the Food Agency will be on the agenda and decided, respectfully, on behalf of the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety, as it says correctly. This is a real and important step in the interests of consumers who actually have the right to high-quality food. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also ask you, in the course of the further discussion on this subject, to preserve this style of objectivity and responsibility in dealing with this issue. It is about the safety of consumers, it is about safety for farmers, it is ultimately about a lot on this issue. Therefore, as I have already done today, I also thank the Austrian media and also for showing this style of responsibility in the discussion in the House. This is a good basis for further successful measures in the interest of this quality country Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15906	Mr Gradwelt is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Members who have spoken now have a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15927	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, thank you for your comments. However, you already allow me to comment: The things you have now mentioned, which have been particularly observed or demanded by us or your side in the new EU control, are precisely those that have been criticized in the first report. I think, of course, that it is a matter of criticism when it comes to the safety of food for the population and the safety of producers. I think that is obvious. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to express my deep regret here as an agricultural speaker of my group to the farm concerned and the family concerned, because, according to the comments of the expert Budka, who considers spontaneous BSE performance to be unlikely, it would have been possible to meet anyone who has tried to feed his animals with appropriate feed, except perhaps a organic farmer who is able to feed his animals with organically produced feed and with his own feed, from which he knows where it comes. But maybe later. Federal Minister! They also argued that at the next meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, I hope that an appointment will be made soon; I can say here that our group has already agreed to the date that we have been proposed, that is to say, it is secured – the food agency – I will shorten it – on the agenda and be debated there. Since we have not received any documents about a change in the government template or possible amendments, I do hope that, in the light of the current BSE case, the legal measures for the future food agency will also be taken into account and that it will not be taken into account – as we have been able to see it in the government template – that farmers, the agricultural lobbys control consumers. This is not the protective measure we are proposing, Minister of State. I really expect that we will be able to make the appropriate amendments in good time so that we can prepare for them and really cooperate constructively. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! A question arises in connection with the BSE case which has unfortunately occurred in Austria. As I have usually learned from very well-informed circles, the slaughterhouse concerned was visited and reviewed by the EU Control Commission some time ago, and it was requested to close this slaughterhouse for non-EU conformity. [[Call the SPÖ: What?]] It would then have been possible to keep this slaughterhouse open. Federal Minister! In this respect, I would be interested: Has it been intervened with you or you, so that this slaughterhouse remains open, in which these confusions and these calamities have now happened during the trial? If so, I would like to explain why this is so and why it has not been ensured that the measures in conformity with EU law have been implemented accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I come back to my introduction. I believe that it is only possible in organic farms to have safety, including with regard to feed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! In some agricultural debates, we have already found that Austria is on the verge of losing the leading position in organic farming or has already lost it in part. One reason for this is that the AMA, with its wonderful instruments and its relatively strong resources, is trying to present idylle every time, to stick organic farmers to poster walls, to house organic farmers in TV spots, and thus prefer the healing world, but when it comes to promoting the marketing of organic products, it is hardly heard from the AMA. Federal Minister! I would like to ask you today for a number of times: Make sure that the AMA uses its resources accordingly to the proportion and importance of organic farming and that the AMA does not only present beautiful images of organically producing plants – I am already at the end of the sentence, Mr President! – but that it is also massively supporting these companies in marketing. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e15996	The next speaker was Mr Schwarzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e16017	Mr President. My very dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Maybe a short chronology: ==References== In December 2001, 50 cattle were slaughtered in a slaughterhouse in the Waldviertel – in the presence of three officially commissioned independent meat research specialists. Of these 50 slaughtered bovine animals, 14 BSE samples were taken from one of the three meat examination veterinarians and sent to the Federal Institute for Animal Disease Control in Killing, which conducts veterinary studies. – So the accusation that too few veterinarians are available to carry out the checks cannot be made at all if there were three veterinarians available for 14 checks – the other cattle were all under 30 months of age. Mr. Federal Minister. I think it's really worth studying how to get some confusion in the samples, because it can be for the farmer who's first suspected... Thank God the media did not know where the farm of the first suspect farmer was located. If this had been known to the media, the court would have been surrounded by cameramen. How does an innocent man get on with it? Such things just can't repeat themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But now to the accusations that are made. In Austria, beef is very closely controlled: All bovine animals from 30 months of age are controlled. It is not like in other European countries, where only samples are made. In our neighbouring country Switzerland – a much smaller country than Austria – there have already been 400 BSE cases, but only samples are made in Switzerland. We have been in Austria since 1. January 2001, that is, since this year, a complete control. It has also shown that control works. Despite Confusion by the veterinarians could be found relatively quickly the actually contaminated beef and the farm from which this bovine has been delivered. This means that consumer safety is guaranteed. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Emergency slaughters are also carried out. Ladies and gentlemen! If a bovine has suspected symptoms of disease, cattle under 30 months of age are also examined. It can be seen that such a case is very rare in this area. There are already around 180 000 BSE cases in England, among which there are only two bovine animals under 30 months of age. In the meantime, 217,000 BSE tests have been carried out with unfortunately a BSE case to be established. However, no infection has yet been established. Mrs Sima, it has already been dared to blame a farmer in the protection of immunity for perhaps feeding contaminated feed in the past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Sima.]] According to my knowledge, this farmer has a precise bookkeeping years ago. It can be understood from where he bought this food, and feed samples have also been taken. [[Abg. May. Sima: An accompaniment!]] Mrs Sima! I listened exactly. [[Abg. Arbitrators: They did not say that!]] They have said – I have written it – that the non-compliance with the animal meal ban will probably have been the cause. [[Abg. May. Sima: But the farmer can't do anything if the feed is contaminated!]] Since 1990, the feeding of animal flour to ruminants in Austria has been prohibited. In recent years, these controls have taken place in the case of compound feed farms. Thank God, consumers do not react as emotionally as they did a year ago. Through these investigations, we can really guarantee that no contaminated meat – including this meat has been stored immediately and must be burned – is on the market. This guarantee can be given to Austrian consumers. In Austria, we have at least 100 000 cattle farmers, who to a large extent receive their income from it and who have already had to lose much of their income in this year.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e16107	The next speaker was Mrs Achatz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e16128	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! It is really very unfortunate that we now have a BSE case in Austria too. The accusation that the controls have been too few, I really do point out from us and from our Federal Government, because 217,000 controls and samples on the slaughtered cattle in Austria are a tangible result, which shows how important the Federal Government is the protection of consumers and farmers too. I have to say, of course, that I can join the desire for complete clarification of the cause of this BSE case. This is also extremely necessary – even with regard to our farmers and our consumers. It is really to be questioned, without a twinkling of eyes: Where did the feed come from? How can this confusion come about? What are the conditions in this slaughterhouse? [[Abg. Edler: Exactly!]] These are the questions to be answered by farmers, consumers and we too have a right to do so. [[Abg. Edler: To do this, we need a committee of inquiry!]] We will not need an investigation committee to do this, but I really trust our ministers. I am also in favour of not limiting the tests, not taking samples, as already proposed by the EU, but remaining complete. I am also in favour of thinking about the distribution of competence and thinking it over. [[Call the SPÖ:In the Federal Government?]] - Of course. A division of competence, which can cause uncertainty, is to be rethinked and reworked, and we are completely in agreement with the opposition. There must be no ban on thinking, but we will have to look at these things.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e16189	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e16210	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! I think that this first Austrian BSE case should seriously call on us to bring clarity into the matter and to review what really happened here. Federal Minister Molterer! From our point of view, the precautionary measures so far have failed. [[Abg. Granddrum: such a stump!]] We should be clear that you too should recognize this, Minister of State. Why failed? – Mr Bundesminister Haupt has clearly stated here today that this animal is an Austrian animal that has not been imported that was the feed of Austrian food. That would have been my first concern: Is it an import of BSE-animals or an import of feed that is BSE-polluted? No, ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't! It was Austrian feed, it was an Austrian cow. If we take this into account, we cannot simply stand up like Mr Schwarzenberger and say that safety is guaranteed. It is guaranteed that we will discover the BSE cases. This system works more or less, rather badly at the moment when you look at it in concrete terms that the earmarks can disappear for the clear identification of the animals that it is about here. [[Abg. Achatz: It works!]] This is incredible, and I hope that will have significant consequences, and I also hope that you will comment on it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But one should be undisputed. Federal Minister Molterer! The report says quite clearly and clearly – and I am now going to quote here: Random samples are not an efficient enforcement tool but only give an estimate of the overall level of contamination. – This is to be read in this report and is central. It also says: The visit to a large feed mill showed that the risk of cross-contamination of ruminants with meat bone meal was in fact more frequent and higher than the official results were supposed to have. Ladies and gentlemen! This is reflected in the European Union's control report. We should also ensure this with data on controls and contamination with animal meal, which is also contained in this report. Studies in 2001 showed that nearly 30 percent of these samples from the year 2000, which were examined in 2001, were contaminated with animal flour. The value of two samples in 2000 was higher than 0.5 percent, Mr. Molterer. Higher than 0.5 percent, a dangerous limit value exceeded! You're responsible for that, that's fact. The sampling plan you have so far drawn up according to statistical criteria was not target-oriented, has not specifically studied increased risk holdings. [[Abg. Murauer: You are otherwise a failed person!]] [[Abg. Prince: It's an uncertainty-spirkhuber!]] Another fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Greens were on the 14th. In December 2000, an application for preventive measures concerning BSE was made here in this House. This request was still depleted by the government groups and was postponed in the last Committee on Agriculture: One year after the first BSE discussion, there is still no discussion on our proposals on precautionary measures! I'm just grabbing out two points. One is research into BSE. Federal Minister! What are the main areas of research? Initiated here? I am thinking, above all, of the danger of milk exchangers. All experts, especially in Germany, are currently assuming that there is a huge source of danger. Have you already been working to ensure that in Austria, in Europe, an intensive research concept to explore this problem is accordingly initiated? Have you applied for mandatory labelling of Fut-terms accordingly? Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the precautionary principle must also apply to farmers. These must be certain, if they are in contact with feed, that these feed is in order and that they cannot really be in the current state. In any case, one of the key issues is: Federal Minister! Do not stand up to the agricultural and feed industries, but work for the interests of Austrian agriculture! [[Abg. Prince: This is what the Minister does – unlike you!]] Its planned breakdown of control into the food agency provides agriculture with a bear service. It supplies food and operating resources to industry in a shift, rather than strengthening the self-power and control capacity of these institutions accordingly. Do something here, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e16307	The Federal Minister Mag has been reported to speak. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e16329	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the history of BSE in Europe, it must be noted that BSE is obviously accompanied by pans everywhere. If the colleague of the Green Group, Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber has now said that much is uncertain: Until one month ago, the German Federal Government, in the European Union, demanded vehement additional BSE barrier measures against sheep, until it was found that in a high-security area of the University of Edinburgh three years ago, contaminated bovine brains and not sheep brains were researched and, therefore, the results that led to these demands had to be seen as obsolete. Switzerland, which has taken measures since 1995, has assumed that in the case of renewable animals no BSE case should have occurred. It has been taught better since October of this year, because there have nevertheless been animals with BSE, although all controls have been carried out in the farms. I believe that this Austrian case, which is of Austrian origin, and where food was bought only legally on the market, shows that there are still a few things to be brightened up in scientific frameworks. Ladies and gentlemen! It should not be overlooked that this day in the slaughterhouse was also a Vienna colleague, in the context of a review of this holding – and here I would like to correct myself – and not on behalf of the EU, as has been wrongly said by the company, but actually on behalf of the Office of the Lower Austrian Government, which was active within the meaning of the Meat Investigation Act. It was even an on-site control body, which is usually only there twice a year, and yet the confusion happened on that day. I therefore believe that, on the part of my ministry, we have been well advised to implement the Swiss findings of October this year immediately in full content and, where the ear and head of the animal were not eligible, immediately carry out a genetic review of the head, cascade and, where possible, of the existing skins in order to be able to make a clear assignment, because the tattoos of the cattle are usually visible on the skins and thus a clear interpretation is possible. In the case of this farm we have been able to produce the reduction via a calf in the stable of this mother animal. This genetic engineering review has also produced a positive result after the first course and the first findings, so I have always assumed since the knowledge of the genetic engineering tests that we are now in the right operation. I am saying this because these genetic studies, as I have already said, have taken almost 50 hours. I also believe that it has proved itself here that the Federal, National and Local Veterinary Offices have worked well together. It has immediately been held a barrier and then on-site control whether everything that has been recovered under the Food Investigation Act and the Meat Investigation Act has been recovered where it was not present. Thus, on-the-spot assurances have actually enabled the scientific reviews and thus the final result. I note that the feeding samples drawn jointly by the official veterinarian of the district and the departments of the Ministry of Agriculture in the farm were not sufficient and could not be demonstrated any additions of protein from animal production. But I'll give you the right, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber that in the last five years such a complete reduction is difficult. But one thing should also be said: It has at least worked properly for all farms, and this is an important point. In today's debate and in view of today's conditions, it should not be forgotten that feed for animal species other than ruminants has been legally sold on the market in the past with animal meal blends. I also looked at this farm myself. The track, where the chickens are located, and the rail where the ruminants are located, are separated from the course of the activities there through the entire farm farm farm, so that it is indeed assumed that the chickens only received the chicken feed and the cattle only the cattle feed. From my veterinary practice I must say that I do not assume that one carries individual portions of chicken feed over the farm to feed a calf there. I therefore believe that the local suction permit was also useful and has enabled the current measures to be evaluated on the spot. As far as my sub-sector is concerned, I have already decided to arrange for sampling of the slaughterhouses several times a year, and in the event that heads are found without earmarks, at the expense of the investigative experts there, to carry out the genetic examinations in order to achieve an assignment and thus an educational effect to improve correctness with regard to the existing legislation. I also believe that my instructions to make new trainings, which were formulated by me on Friday and which went to the Veterinary Directors on the weekend, are a useful addition to the programme. Now that a BSE case has occurred, I believe that crisis plan training should be repeated. You can't repeat the trainings often enough. Thirdly, the heads of state will also have to consider whether they believe that they should continue to reserve the sampling plans under the research programmes, but should not also revise them if nationally evaluated sampling plans finally take place. I think we have prepared a sensible package of measures, and I also believe we have worked well in this situation, but we are unfortunately unable to eliminate human failure on the ground. Whether it was more, the investigations of the financial and criminal authorities will be carried out.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e16401	For business treatment: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e16422	Mr President. There is an agreement that, in the context of a question debate, there is a business-orientated statement by a minister after the applicant and that a member of the government or the minister responsible should not comment at the end of the debate if no Member, no Member, no longer has the opportunity to replicate the statements made by the Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Where's that?]] Mr President. I would like to listen to what Mr Minister has to say. I do not usually think that this is unfounded and irrelevant. But if Members have no opportunity to make their contributions to the opinion of the Federal Minister, and this is repeated for the second time in the course of one day, I think that this is an intolerable state. [[Abg. Gaál: That's right!]] I would suggest, Mr President, that the honourable Member should be given the opportunity to replicate the statements made by the Minister accordingly. I therefore ask you, or the ministers, to comply with the agreement with Parliament, which the Minister should not say. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Request!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e16493	Deputies! I took note of your request. According to the Rules of Procedure, a statement by the Minister is possible at the end. The Minister made himself known very late. It was no longer possible to let another speaker follow. In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. 2. Point Report by the National Defence Committee on the report (III-87 of the Supplements) of the Federal Government on Security and Defence Doctrine; Analysis part (939 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e16524	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e16548	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have the opportunity to talk about the Security Doctor, a new Austrian Security Doctor; unfortunately, we do not have the opportunity to talk about one of the four parties in this House. I say right at the beginning, I regret this because I am convinced that it is particularly important in a small country to find a common basis on the essential issues of foreign and security policy, because a small country can only, if it is closed in its political orientation, give its voice a hearing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was a common attempt; it was a failure. I do not want to go into detail of this laborious undertaking, which has accompanied us since May, in which we have spent many hours of dedicated discussions – from all sides – but I want to note briefly the essential points that have been the reason for our failure. High house! There are basically three reasons why we have failed. The first is that, contrary to the clear constitutional situation – and I would also like to say that, contrary to the clear oath you have made on this federal constitution – you have faced us precisely with the fact that Austria is not neutral but alliance-free. This is both wrong and politically unacceptable, in order to say it very clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The neutral Austria, ladies and gentlemen, does not belong to any alliance, and in so far as you are right, it is also alliance-free. But the political position of Austria in matters of security policy is not exhausted in that we do not belong to an alliance, but the political position is determined by the fact that Austria has not participated in wars because of its neutrality – has not participated since 1955 and will not participate. That is the essential objective, that is what people in this country appreciate about neutrality, and that is what we also appreciate about this neutrality! That's why we won't give up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] High house! Secondly, we have failed that you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, in particular, want to go to NATO. [[Call the ÖVP: Oh, that's it?]] [[Abg. Lens: Who says that?]] And we don't want to say that, clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Yes, I admit – and the contrary claim would also be wrong – that you do not propose this in the Security Doctor to be decided by you today. You do not propose accession to NATO, and I think you have good reason to do so: They would suffer from shipwreck. – But you have put a slide in this direction, and, ladies and gentlemen, even a slide towards NATO is not acceptable because it does not improve Austria’s security position. That is why we will not agree. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] [[Abg. Auer: Did you slip out?]] And thirdly, the High House, we have failed that you, of the government parties, of the liberals and the public authorities, when it comes to the application of military force, seem to mean nothing to the rule of law. High house! As a small state in particular, Austria must be interested in the fact that not the one who has the military resources, where appropriate, uses force, also decides on whether he has the right to do so. That is why we agree that in these cases there must be a clear legal procedure and a decision of the UN Security Council, because the little one cannot accept the law of the stronger, but because it is precisely the small ones who need to build on the fact that there are legally regulated procedures. But you do not want to accept that either, and this is why an agreement has not been reached. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] High house! I have set out the main reasons for the failure from my point of view and I do not wish to continue to spread in it. I would like to tell you once again what our conception looks like at this point. I can't do that all the way, but at least it's scarce and clear. We, ladies and gentlemen, assume that neutral Austria must already work in peace for peace, if we do not want to participate in wars, and that is primarily: if we want there to be no wars, that is the first condition on which it is concerned. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] This, the House, is the reason why, in our security policy approach, we have handed over to you and you know it, first and foremost for the rule of law, for democratization wherever this is not the case, for social and economic compensation, and for the communication between States on the basis of equal partnership, because these are the main reasons – Mr Murauer, listen now, you have time to talk anyway! . which contribute to the peaceful co-existence between peoples, including between states. [[Abg. Murauer: I am amazed what you read out!]] These are the same reasons which are also of national importance, namely social and economic compensation, rule of law, democracy and equal partnership. [[Abg. Murauer: And that's not inside?]] – Listening Take it easy, you have time to talk! That is also the reason – in order to continue scratching this curve – why we continue to promote a deepening of the political Union in Europe, and it is the reason why we also stand clearly and clearly in favour of the enlargement of the European Union. High house! The deepening of the political Union is intended to help Europe to speak with one voice on issues of security and defence policy and to build on one strand and to provide democratic foundations for this. [[Call the ÖVP:Well go!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] What the smart intermediate note "Na go!" I should like to point out to you that this has not always been the case and that, among other things, Europe has made such a bad figure in the process of breaking up the former Yugoslavia, because it has not spoken with one voice and has not taken a lead. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Such things should be taken as the basis for a lesson. The enlargement of the European Union, in order to justify this as well, is therefore also crucial in this context, because it will extend the zone of peace, political and economic stability and social balance to those countries where fate has attributed less happy development than we have, at least in the second half of the last century. Ladies and gentlemen! The time that I have just taken does not allow me to go deeper into these questions, so I can only make the following conclusions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] First: It is a pity that an attempt to establish a four-party basis for Austria's security policy has failed. I have already mentioned this: Especially for a small person it would be important to speak with a voice, because then the voice can also be heard better. Secondly, I think the talks we have held, the negotiations we have conducted, were nevertheless not pointless or useless, to say that clearly. We now know better where we agree and where we do not agree. And, ladies and gentlemen, even this knowledge of the positions we agree on – which I have not now come out in particular, because this would not have allowed time – is an essential basis that could also be achieved with these talks. Thirdly, We too – in order to say this clearly and clearly – stand for solidarity in Europe and in the world. That should have become clear already. But we are in favour of solidarity of action in peace and an active commitment to avoid war, and that is the real solidarity with people's interests. This is primarily about the question of securing peace and avoiding war, that is the life interest! And this is also our understanding of neutrality, as our party chairman presented it yesterday. For such a concept, High House – including ladies and gentlemen from the government parties, including Mr Klubobmann Khol – you will find us as an interlocutor at any time. The news that we still had time came from you today, and that was too late!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e16736	Mr Spindelegger is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e16757	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr President, is personally in a not very pleasant situation. He himself has worked with us on compromise proposals in eight rounds of negotiations, and I would like to note that he has worked constructively with us. The fact that, in the final consequence, his own proposals for wording were rejected by the ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, who have something to say in the party, is unfortunate. I can therefore join: I too regret that we have not reached an agreement. But, ladies and gentlemen: The SPÖ has emerged from these negotiations on a common security doctor! This is clear first of all. We have recognized a "security doctor" as a necessity because, after all the events, after an end of the Cold War, after a case of the Iron Curtain, after a security doctor who was previously called Defense Doctor and was decided in 1975, it was clear that we must work consistently on a further development. I am very proud of this and I am glad that after eight months of negotiations in this House we can also decide on a Security Doctrine today, a formulation found in the presence of the Liberal Group and the People's Party, which ensures that this is a modern, state-of-the-art Security Doctrine, that this Security Doctrine also addresses the risks which have been taking place since the 11th century. There are in this world security policy in September, and a security doctor, who also contains clear instructions for the departments dealing with security policy. This is an excellent security doctor with which Austria is addressing in a modern way security issues, and I am pleased that we can take a decision on this basis today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have in general recommendations these reactions to the events of the 11. It was clearly held in September. We want it to be prevented, as far as possible, by appropriate preparation, that something like this can happen again, and Austria must also cooperate with others beyond its own consideration, ladies and gentlemen. It is a matter of time today, a need for international solidarity in the fight against this terror. It's the first time that I've ever heard of it. It is also known to all the political groups in this House in September. The fact that you're here again today shows: Three months have passed, life is going back to normal, one has forgotten what threatens us in these times. I think it is necessary, however, to make clear in general recommendations a sign against international terrorism. We have discussed foreign policy issues with a clear planning of security policy. We insist that we strive for a common European defence within the meaning of Article 17 of the EU Treaty. But, my Ladies and gentlemen, of course there is a need for a partner in the European Union, which is not so obvious for this idea today. We will advertise these partners, but not by building air locks, but by realistically approaching this goal. And because colleague This was so much about NATO, because it was a populist exit from these negotiations for him: If eleven members of 15 members of the European Union are members of NATO, ladies and gentlemen, you will not believe that they will all leave tomorrow and form a completely new security policy! That is far from reality, and we are not available for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In defence policy, we have also insisted on anchoring the federal army's equipment at a very high technical level in the future. We are also clear about airspace surveillance without if and but. We believe that the German army will be able to carry out all the tasks to Petersberg, which are now the Union's common tasks. And in the field of internal security, we have also maintained a clear structure of our security policy approach in this doctrine, in the direction of combating international terrorism, as well as combating organised crime, tow, trafficking in human beings. I think we have created a basis with this Security Doctor, which will last many years. Contrary to all the opposition’s calls that this is a doctrine with due date, we will all see how many years will be made on the basis of this doctrine of security policy in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. The alternatives we have here on the part of the Greens, who have behaved very constructively in these discussions, and the SPÖ, have not been able to convince us, ladies and gentlemen. Now I come to the point of why the agreement has failed in truth. As much as we regret this, however, it has not surprised us that the SPÖ has ultimately left the negotiations. When we put it to the point, ladies and gentlemen: The Social Democrats in this country have always had an disturbed relationship to issues of national defence. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Drummer shakes his head.]] That is it and that remains it, ladies and gentlemen! You often go to the speaker's desk and announce how much you stand for the defence of the country, but when it comes to investing in technological issues, developing concepts, you have still adopted them. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. That's such a complete nonsense! Who has created the national defence plan by absolute majority? It was the SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Leikam: This is unheard of!]] That is the truth – I know you don't like to hear it, but so it is, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They have built a Fata Morgana since 1955, which reads: Neutrality as a word is enough to make us safe. That's a fata Morgana in the sense of a trick, because, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at reality since 1955 today, we know: In the crisis 1956 – Hungary’s crisis – in the crisis 1968 – the Czech crisis – in the issue of the Slovenia war in 1991, neutrality alone would not have protected us. We have only benefited from the fact that we also had a German army in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, which at least guaranteed a certain degree of protection of our borders. The Fata Morgana "neutrality alone protects us" is a trick and remains a trick. You have argued a lot in the past, but, ladies and gentlemen: Under the rule we were lucky in Austria that nothing happened to us. Let us just think about the plans of the Warsaw Pact, which are now published, about how we have been viewed from the east as neutral. This shows us today, even though we were never in a case of defense, that neutrality alone would not have protected us from an attack planned for Austria. Secondly, you have put on a Fata Morgana and painted it on the horizon, ladies and gentlemen, when we entered the European Union. You, as Social Democrats, assured us at the time: We are going to the European Union, and the status quo of Austria will not change. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us remember what has happened since: We have not only joined the EU, we have ratified, with your votes, a Treaty of Amsterdam. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's right!]] With this Treaty of Amsterdam, Petersberger became a task for the community. Fighting operations were also possible. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's right!]] They voted in favour. We have signed a peace partnership within NATO with your votes. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's right!]] You have fully supported this. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Yes!]] It's true, too. But, ladies and gentlemen, you have also had a German Chancellor climate that has taken a decision with the European Heads of State and Government in Cologne on the issue of the use of NATO troops in Kosovo, but only in Cologne. Two days later he gave a fire address for neutrality in Austria! - We didn't forget that. But you have built up a Fata Morgana that despite membership of the European Union, despite all these decisions, we remain in the status quo. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] That's a trick, ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to put that to you today, because you haven't gotten rid of it yet. As a People's Party, we have clearly known that we have taken the step of neutrality towards solidarity in the European framework. And whoever has seen the pictures of the terrible wars in the Balkans will probably not be able to return to this question, but must be solid with those whose lives were threatened there who were murdered. – This is the task today: to be solidarian in the European framework! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They have built a third image today, a Fata Morgana about the future. Colleagues One has still said that we want a common European defence. Your colleague Gusenbauer – not present today – has designed a completely new picture, namely: He does not want a common European defence, in which neutrality is naturally concerned, but he wants the European Union to order neutrality! Ladies and gentlemen! This too is a trick image, a simple Fata Morgana. I am already excited how, in the context of the Socialist International, he will convince his colleagues Gerhard Schröder, Federal Chancellor of Germany, or his social democratic colleague Tony Blair of Great Britain of his neutrality ideas. He will step before the two and say: We will be neutral in the future. – More interesting thought. – Tony Blair and Gerhard Schröder have pushed each other into a competition that will help George Bush with certain troops in the framework of NATO! – He will say tomorrow: Gusenbauer for Flower Power! [[Abg. Leikam:... is terrible!]] Old ideas, as it were, that you used to grow up to be new. [[Abg. Leikam: That's really hard!]] I would like to be there when Gusenbauer presents his Flower Power Ideas at the Socialist International, to propose neutrality in the European framework. I believe and fear that it will not be a glorious leaf for Austria, quite the contrary, we will be called a little bit a salmon number. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A strange swarmer! Like a strange swarmer!]] And I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, for a former state-bearing party like the Social Democrats has now fallen to a level that I would not have expected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Colleagues For one thing, the plenary has left what I can imagine, because for him the situation is truly not pleasant. He at least gave the impression in our negotiations that it was serious to him with a ringing about a common security doctor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] Unfortunately, it did not lead to a result, because the colleagues in the SPÖ who have the saying said no: Mr President, Mr Fischer, who is still living in times long ago, Mr Cap, who, as a clubman, has had to make a vow, never again to talk about NATO, and Mr Gusenbauer, who dreams of the tactic of neutrality in the European context. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Murauer]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's a nonsense! It's under your dignity!]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! What you lack in order to be able to speak crediblely about security policy is the state-political responsibility. You can't drive any games in security! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Young.]] You won't get far with a Fata Morgana and a trick image. On the contrary: It is necessary – if we take ideas, as we have now defined them, seriously – to make a contribution ourselves. Whoever believes that you can have security without making a contribution yourself, will not go a meter further in any discussion. [[Abg. May. Prammer:... yes no one discussed!]] You know that, too. That is why I am surprised, especially since there are colleagues among you, like Anton Gaál, who, as a defender, has always stood clearly for the defence of the country, or also Mr Cap, who, while no longer being allowed to think about NATO as a prize for the function of the clubman, will think about it, perhaps mentally, honestly, but again, how to build a European security system. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: "Immer"!]] In view of all of this, ladies and gentlemen, you should put yourself in a clause and order your disturbed relationship to the defence of the state. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Drummer shakes the head]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have it yourself!]] From our point of view, this new Security Doctor is a very appropriate basis for continuing on a European basis. I would like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen who have contributed to this, Mr Jung, as the committee chairman, and especially the staff of the departments that have gone into our hands. I believe that this doctrine will be the basis of our security policy for many years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e17035	Mr Pilz is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e17069	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are again facing an option report. The reason why the old option report was rightly disposed of was that one of the opposition parties at that time rightly said: Security policy cannot be built on an option report that says what would be possible, but security policy is a question of making clear decisions that have a chance to hold. Now we have another option report. And on all the essential questions that we – as I quite agree with Mr Spindelegger – have discussed with great commitment and with the aim of reaching an agreement, there is no clear answer to all these questions. Whoever wants to, can read the NATO accession, who wants, can read out a European alliance, who wants, can read out an alliance freedom, and who wants to, can "replace" it into neutrality. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] One of the few aspects of the motion for a resolution is the verbal creative power: Suddenly, the neutrality "Allianz freedom" is! – Although I do not know a federal Constitutional Act called "Allianz Freedom Act", I also have the impression that the majority of the Austrian population is not behind the freedom of alliance, but behind neutrality, but I can imagine that this path will continue. What would happen? You say to Members who go out here and say: There are no addictions, these are only active substances, and therefore the addiction laws no longer apply!? – That would be a rather strange conclusion that you would rightly reject. [[Call to the liberals: You do this!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The pillow would say that!]] Only with neutrality is this suddenly different. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now it is simply about finding three major changes, the three major questions, three precise answers that are capable of defining their own Austrian role in security policy. The first change is: The security of Europe has changed fundamentally since the collapse of the Warsaw Pact and the communist systems. Europe is facing a major question: Will Europe take responsibility for its security itself, or will Europe continue to say that we want to remain under the US military and security leadership, we are delegating security policy to the US? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Both!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Both!]] When we say, Europe is unmistakably unmistakable, then it makes sense to sign an extra declaration of immatureness for Austria and to say: We're joining NATO, because we can't do anything else. In addition to the European Dwarf is said to be the Austrian small dwarf in the alliance under the command of the last military superpower. Why not? If you don't trust yourself anymore, if you have no other idea than to conjure your own dwarfness and visionlessness, then you can join NATO. It is at least one possibility – certainly the worst. That is why my proposal is: Let us continue to think what is inside of European developments! Let us keep in mind that common European security structures have long grown – the Political and Security Committee, the Joint Staff, several other organisations, the Eurocorps, other structures for the implementation of the Petersberg tasks – and we will answer the question of what we are planning to do to ensure the completely missing democratic control of these new European structures. This can no longer be done by the Austrian National Council or the Spanish Parliament or the British House of Commons. This includes new rights, and that can only be rights of the European Parliament! We need Europeanisation, and the aim here can only be to achieve a security union in Europe on the way to a political union after the completion of monetary union. This is a clear goal that a neutral can articulate much more open and represent much more open than a packed state. On the big question: A democratic, European security system or the imposition of this continent under the military control of the last superpower? I strongly support the European perspective. Now the question is: What answers do the government parties give? Let us take the example Euro. The security position of the Freedom Party with the idea of a European alliance would have said: The way to the euro will be seen as an alliance of different currencies. [[Call:Someone]] The euro is the alliance between Schilling, Pound, D-Mark and Franc. [[Abg. Young: That was the parity that was maintained for a very long time!]] Obviously, that's a little absurd. The ÖVP offers an alternative, which means: To join the euro, the schilling must be transferred to the dollar. Only when the schilling becomes a dollar will the euro come out sometime. Every monetary politician would pick up his hair and say: For God's sake, that's not the way it is! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So, if you want something common European, you have to consider how to go about it. And there is the opportunity of the neutral and alliance-free states that are not subject to any military command that no one is obliged to do anything reasonable and solid. But this cannot be a European military block. [[Abg. Murauer: Well, what now?]] We have bad experiences with military blocks, and there are reasons for Austrian neutrality, which also have to do with the history of military blocks and their confrontations. This is rather the second development to which we need a second answer, and that is the question: Should global security questions be answered by the last remaining superpower or a new global rule of law system? That means: U.S. leadership or a new UN regime, from conventions, from a reformed Security Council and from mandates, not only an Austrian commitment to link all military operations to UN mandates, but also a European commitment to a new quality of security policy, which states: Europe is not represented as a traditional military block of global interest policy. That's all going on now, they're not utopias. We have reached the International Criminal Court – it is blocked by the USA. We have conventions that must be ratified in the UN, we have the debate on a reform of the Security Council, we have the opportunity to develop the OSCE further. We have plenty of opportunities, but we do not have the Austrian Federal Government, which appears in Vienna, Brussels, Washington or wherever it is possible, and says: Yeah, that's what we want. We want to oppose the rule of a military superpower a global regime of human rights, rule of law and democracy. But that will be the future! That's why it's going to be okay. There will be states, there will be political parties who are committed to this and thus develop a vision. Europe also needs security policy Visions, not what is said here: not NATO, not cheap disposal of neutrality, but a new, peaceful and solidary perspective. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] This is the new opportunity for an active neutrality policy. The current government policy is nothing else – and this is probably unique – than to dispose of a constitutional law behind the back of the Constitutional Legislator. They do not even trust to deal openly with the Constitution, as it stands in it itself. You don't even trust yourself to go here and say: This Constitutional Law is disturbing to us, so we want a majority for its abolition. No, no, no, They say: We want to win the opposition parties to agree with new formulations behind the people's back to a fundamental change of our constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the FPÖ! That's not how it's going! [[Abg. Murauer: No one can think that way, Mr. Pilz! It's not that way!]] People in Austria know exactly what constitution means, which bar you from your security policy as a barrier. And you know very well that in the short-term decision: NATO or neutrality? It's about something completely different. It is simply a matter of a basic decision: Do you want to be easily involved in wars and military interest policy? And you should never forget this, ladies and gentlemen! Especially in the Austrian population, there is a great distrust of the abuse of military resources. This has to do with Austrian history, and this has to do with good experiences that we have made because we have not joined any military alliance. Mr Spindelegger, do not tell me this story that the Russian bear had been sitting in Moscow for decades in a slottery, because the Austrian German army was waiting on the Burgenland border! [[Abg. Murauer: I didn't say that either!]] The Russian bear has not been the teddy bear that the Austrian federal army would have placed in the barriers. – The Austrian federal army has always had a symbolic function, and in part it has not even been taken seriously by its own generality. The distinctive feature of the Austrian federal army was always the upper building and not much more. Today – and this is the third question – since Austria is first militaryly safe, you want to explain to us that we need to upgrade. You have had no joy when I suddenly pulled out in committee the report of the Army News Office, which you wanted to abstain from us, and just read it out: "In view of the security situation in Europe and the immediate environment, no conventional military threat to Austria can be identified and not predicted." Yes, the Army News Office is right. We are soon surrounded by noisy NATO states, and now the Austrian People's Party – and similar will still come from the liberals – explains to us: We must stand up for the battle on land and in the air against the ring of NATO states! – Haven Are you serious about this? Do you really want to defend the airspace against your friends from NATO with new interceptors? Should an Austrian armored division dig against American, British, German and Italian troops? Faith You really do need to defend the free and black Alpine fortress Austria, surrounded by friends, militaryly? - That's completely absurd! The Austrian airspace needs everything: less pollution, less noise, perhaps less radiation, but certainly no military protection. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Remove & Spam Classification]] The only thing that needs to be monitored in airspace may be the airspace in the minds of some defense politicians. It's the only airspace I'm worried about. The rest of the Austrian airspace – and I am glad to be able to say that here – is absolutely safe. That is why I expect you – because this time it will not succeed – to have something new for the future: first of all a European perspective, which for me means solidarity policy, which is democratised and has a constitutional basis in Brussels; second, clear initiatives for a new global rule of law; thirdly, in Austria – also in the interests of the zero deficit – to disarm everything we no longer need. [[Abg. Murauer: Neutral or solidarity, Mr Pilz?]] [[Abg. Murauer: Neutrality or Solidarity? Now you have to decide!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder.]] Do what you do, of course, at every gender army post, at every district court, at every school, at every university institute, asking if we need it. Then we will suddenly have 30 or 40 billion schilling more for education, for poverty reduction and for investment in the future. That is what it looks like to make sound financial policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This security doctor, this option report has an expiry date. The expiry date is the evening of the next National Council election. The faster this evening comes, the faster the Republic of Austria gets the chance to get a really reasonable and safe doctrine for the first time. One last thing: Much in the policy of recent weeks and months has shown that the Federal Government currently has only two options: Sometimes it's chaos, sometimes it's pussy. At Temelín it was chaos, with the doctrine it's rather puss. We Greens are probably the only party that stands for security, for order, for trust, for propriety and cleanliness, and therefore the first true security doctor of this Republic will also carry a clear green handwriting after the next National Council election. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP and the Abg. Young]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e17293	The next speaker was Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e17314	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Pilz, I would like you to become as old as your old 68-ser arguments. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: I'm a 54!]] I really don't go into that anymore, that's not worth it. However, it is worth considering what Mr von der Vring has said to anyone who is not present, just as Mr Schieder, but also Mr Gaál. - Ah, colleague Gaál is here. . However, I do not believe that this is done out of disdain for these gentlemen, because Mr Schieder has not been allowed to speak on such issues at all in recent times – that is probably the beneficial influence of the new deputy clubman – but I also understand that he does not want to, because it is quite difficult for a realistic thinking person to represent the position that the SPÖ has now taken in this debate. Debates of the European Parliament To one, neutrality was defined, and as one of the essential points he called non-participation in wars. I ask you, Mr Cap, after you are present: Do you understand non-participation in wars only semantically or do you really understand it as non-participation? What's a war? – This is the struggle of armed forces. Yesterday, your party president said that the basic attitude not to wage wars is one of the SPÖs, but very probably it represents the attitude to participate in pacifying measures. This is nothing but the semantic definition of a conflict with arms force. What is pacem face, the Roman Pax Romana? – That was submission with violence, with force of weapons under a great power. That's what you want? To take part in pacifying measures because people may not understand what is meant by it? But you don't want to wage wars? This is not a very honest and decent attitude, Mr President. The same concerns your question with the Security Council decision. They always forget who was chancellor back then when the whole thing was decided. It was a social democrat who, as you can hear, enforced with a lot of pressure from you, that the corresponding article was included in our federal constitution. And now, of course, you want to go back behind this decision, because some in the SPÖ are whiting morning air in this area. But the classical neutrality status – and it is simply defined by international law – is then lost, Mr. Cap, if you do not follow it. And we have repeatedly violated the classical neutrality definition in the past. You know that very well. We liberals have repeatedly pointed out this, but it has been shoved down and passed away. Now you'd like to know nothing more about this sin, but it's not that easy. But back to the doctrine. We have heard that since the date of the Spanish Doctrine, which was then developed in the 1970s and then also the National Defence Plan, nothing has been done about security policy in Austria. The last great coalition has not managed for ten years to respond to the completely changed security situation in Europe, to the collapse of the great alliances, because you could not agree. They could not agree on the option report either; You didn't make it. And now you are criticizing the fact that the Security Doctrine was decided only by the votes of the government parties? You've had the opportunity to do that. You didn't make it. What you didn't do, but create the others, criticise. You do not have the right to practice criticism in this area. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is something to be said about this, Mr. Cap – if you could perhaps get rid of the "Kronen Zeitung" for a moment, which, of course, today has a very encouraging title, but apart from that now: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (on Abg. Dr. Cap interprets) He's so fascinated by the title page that he's going to sign soon, I think!]] At that time, there was no involvement of the opposition. You can't deny that. Nor can you deny that we have made a great effort to give the opposition every opportunity to participate in this work. There was no mention of this in the great coalition. It's only since we've been free to rule. We have worked out this doctrine in an attempt at close cooperation, which until the end was actually very cooperative and in which your representatives also took part until they were plowed back, and that is quite decided; probably from the very top left, from the "old from the mountain" or from one from this environment, from those who, when it went well, tried to disrupt this joint work, which Mr One has actually conspired, by intervening. Unfortunately, this is the success. However, we have managed to go through this doctrine, and we have made it clear that this is not infringing, as my colleague has said. One has meant that national legal ties will be made. They continue to apply. We attach great importance to this. There will be no alliance membership in the future without prior referendum, because security policy cannot and will not be made against the will of the majority of the Austrian population. As far as military cooperation is concerned, it should also be clear to you that small states can no longer work alone. Under your chancellor, the step towards European cooperation has been taken, but – and we also value it – to a European cooperation between the sovereign states, without the task of the final decision-making possibility of the Austrian Federal Government. We and not a European Commissioner should decide if it really has to be whether Austrian soldiers go into action somewhere and when and no one else. We want to ensure that and, unlike you, do not give up. No one in Austria is taking this responsibility. I have already mentioned the strange neutrality interpretation of SPÖ. They want to be in a European and at the same time neutral alliance. For God's sake! Wash my fur, but don't wet me! This is like your anti-atomic holding: Although they block the chapter and prevent entry, you do not pronounce a veto. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] This clumsy line, which you represent all the time, continues in security policy. But I'll tell you one thing: This will only bring you further internal party political problems, because many of you in your party can no longer follow these ideas, I can tell you. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Break your own head!]] This is an eye-catching and an error of the Austrian population that you are trying to do. But that won't happen in the future. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: Save yourself such teachings!]] Now the effect on the German army itself at the end. Just as important as the clarification that there is no entry into a NATO alliance here is the finding that the possibility of observation is kept open. We keep an eye on the possibility. However, I should also like to keep in mind now, Mr Cap, without becoming a member of the SPÖ. So that's a big difference. We have made it clear here that we are pursuing European cooperation in this area as a priority, and that is what we are going to do. But we will not do this in an illusory form, as Mr Pilz has referred to, because there is not a single European state that wants to disband its own forces, but rather in a very realistic form, because a doctrine should be something that can be implemented in a foreseeable time – and not a dream or a similar utopia. My colleagues will address the consequences for the German army itself. However, I would like to highlight one point because it seems to me particularly important, namely the question of the general obligation to do so, which will be maintained. Another point that arose during the debate on the doctrine was the question of terrorism, which we have already responded very early. It has long been contained in the working papers we have received from the government and is now inside. We don't have the 11. September needed to recognize and address the problem. The doctrine is therefore very, very progressive and up-to-date. In summary, it can be found that: The new Security Doctrine obliges the government to pursue a comprehensive security policy that is far more than previously the comprehensive national defence. It involves the field of foreign policy, internal policy, the Ministry of the Interior, and this will be extremely necessary in order to address new dangers. They give – and this is important – the necessary specifications and the order to set the course for the future. We wish the German army much luck in implementing it, and I thank all the employees, especially the officials and members of the department who supported us in this work, but also the club staff who were sometimes very, very much required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e17418	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e17443	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. The decision-making of this motion for a resolution is an important – I would say – milestone for Austrian security policy in the future. It could also have been a historic moment in the Austrian security policy, if it had succeeded, that everyone would have jumped above their own party political and ideological shadows and that the consensus, which had long been in control, would have been really between the four parliamentary groups. Unfortunately, this is not the case, but it is as we have always signaled it from the Federal Government and also from the governmental parties: We are ready for this consensus, we want consensus, but at least there will be a new security and defence doctrine because it is necessary. I am very happy and very proud that after 20 years, there will be this new Security and Defence Doctor for Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This security and defence doctrine is very clear and structured. It contains a comprehensive threat analysis – I hope it will be discussed here too – in which exactly the inside stands, Mr Pilz, what you have described here as so secret and new as a report from the Army News Office, namely that, of course, and God, thanks to a direct military threat from a neighboring country, but also a conventional military threat has become very unlikely and for the next years even with certainty excludes bordering probability, that there is, moreover, a wealth of new security scenarios and threats for Austria, regardless of whether this is a direct or indirect influence on our security interests by nationalistic, fundamentalist conflicts in Europe or around Europe – we need to note today that any crisis, no matter how far or how close it is to Austria, is also an impact on our security interests – or whether the hazards are posed by militaryly organized and internationally active terrorism. This was included in the draft for the Security and Defence Doctor before it was released after the 11th century. It may have become clear to everyone on September that there is this threat. In this comprehensive threat analysis, it is also clear about the threat posed by non-conventional weapons, nuclear, biological and chemical combatants. 25 countries of the earth, partly not democratically legitimised and controlled, have such combatants. We know that these countries are able that some groups are even able – and we have now seen it – to use these combatants. All these dangers also require a response, both domestically and internationally. Therefore, the reaction in the strategic part of this Security and Defence Doctrine is clearly defined with a focus on prevention, that is, that we must do everything we can to prevent crises at all and to prevent threats, that there must ultimately be a comprehensive security concept in order to be able to address these threats; not only military – that is clearly said – but also a military component as Ultima Ratio, if crisis management is not possible with the other means. We have also made a clear commitment to a common, internationally organised security and defence policy, primarily at European level, because here, ladies and gentlemen, Austria is equally entitled, but also equally committed as a full member of the European Union, to such a system of common security and defence policy. This has to be made clear here, and this is also important because we have to note that these security scenarios are no longer to be dealt with by a state alone, no matter how large it may be. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, above all from the Socialists, it must also be pointed out that the points that honourable Members have raised here as those which have made it impossible for you to agree to this common doctrine cannot be entirely in line with reality. If you say that you are not in favour of giving up neutrality, but at the same time saying that for you neutrality only means no longer participating in wars, then we would have found ourselves, because no one in this country wants Austria and Austrian soldiers to be involved in wars, that we participate in wars, ladies and gentlemen. Only: This is not the definition of permanent neutrality, as it had to accept Austria in 1955 as a condition for the State Treaty. The continuing neutrality also has intermediate obligations for the permanent neutrals in peace periods. He may not decide on a case-by-case basis whether he is involved in a conflict or not – everyone can do so; with the exception of a defence case, each NATO member can decide whether it is involved in an action or not – but the permanent neutral, as Austria has seen or had to see in its view, has a pre-performance obligation that he signals that he is not involved in any military conflict at all. Ladies and gentlemen! You know very well that this condition must no longer be met for a permanent neutral at the latest with Austria's accession to the European Union. You are defending something that you have abolished yourself, namely with the accession to the European Union and with the necessary constitutional change, the Article 23f Federal Constitutional Act. And it is a contradiction to a non-conformist contradiction with the principles of permanent neutrality, which you have written into the Austrian federal constitution under a chancellor climate: that Austria can be involved in fighting efforts to create peace, that is, against the will of one of the parties. That was not to be agreed. You just don't trust to express this clearly. It is not a coincidence that we have written this question of status quo, the freedom of alliance, instead of this status of permanent neutrality not into the strategic part, i.e. into our conception for the future, but into the analysis of the current status. We describe a development of the last ten years that you have made sustainablely. But this is also to be clearly expressed to the Austrians. We're not gonna do anything! We do not need to change the Constitution, but we are continuing to shape what you have finally made possible by your decision-making, namely full participation in the establishment of a common security and defence policy within the framework of the European Union. That will be our goal! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Because you always talk about the "evil" NATO, about the "evil" Americans – that sounds like it: We have also made it clear here that accession to NATO takes place only after a referendum. But with a fama one should already clean up here: that in the time of the Cold War Austria has remained safe due to its international status – even not, and I must say, through the high military capacities. There was also inconsistency. The continuing neutrality would also include military structures, such as in Switzerland, which would have enabled us to defend ourselves. We have been lucky that nothing has happened, and we have relied on what others invest for us: on the structures of NATO and ultimately on the structures of the United States. We should also take note of this and put it forward here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we know the plans for the Warsaw Pact. These were the plans of the Warsaw Pact, taking into account Austrian neutrality, a clear breakthrough through the Danube valley, a clear passage from east to south towards Italy. [[Federal Minister Scheibner keeps a graphic up-to-date]] That would have been the security guarantees of Austria! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Above all, the Burgenländer should keep this in mind!]] Thank God all these instruments upon which one has relied for so long never had to take up the proof of truth. Mr Pilz, you said that the Austrian army has a symbolic meaning. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: The Minister of Defense too!]] Yes, the Minister of Defense, too. He is a symbol of the fact that the Austrian Federal Army has not only a symbolic meaning, or only a symbolic meaning, as well as something to do for our own security. Their symbolic significance, Mr Pilz, are 220 000 soldiers in border security over the last ten years, their symbolic significance are hundreds of thousands of hours of work in the use of Austrian soldiers, and their symbolic significance in the Austrian army are thousands of Austrian soldiers in countless foreign operations, where they have ultimately also provided peace in the world and in these regions. This is your symbolic significance, Mr Pilz. I am proud – and I believe the majority of Austrians too – that we have not only a symbolic meaning, but also a very practical meaning for military security and thus for crisis management in the world. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] One should also say what your goals have really been, not only of the Greens, but also of some parts of the Social Democrats – which has not yet been so clearly expressed today: One is opposed to a common security policy, especially if it is transatlantic, but one wanted to have a common security and defence policy. What does that mean? – That is to say, a common, united Euro-armee in the European Union, which means the abolition of the Austrian federal army, and that also means that Brussels decides where Austrian soldiers can ultimately be sent. This is not the concept of the Austrian Federal Government! We have really distinguished ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, from social democracy, because we want it to be the decision of Austria, whether Austrian soldiers go into international action, and if so, to what extent, and how they are prepared for it. We have really distinguished ourselves, and this should be clearly expressed here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: And what about the Styrian soldiers?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You have rightly said that we need an offensive foreign policy; Her party chairman Gusenbauer said something about the new meaning of neutrality yesterday and referred to Kreisky. I'll tell you: Yes, this was certainly an active foreign policy at a time when Austria was a neutral country between two pact systems. It really played an important role, that's not a question. But in recent decades the world has changed, ladies and gentlemen, and you should take note of that. With the instruments and possibilities of the past, you will no longer be able to make security and foreign policy in the present and future. We must now use our good name, which we still have in some regions of the world, for a bridge function, for example, from crisis regions to the European Union, because it is no longer necessary for countries to stand outside, but it is a question of being strong and having influence to implement measures. This is true of the United States, and it would be good if, in addition to the United States, a strong Europe, a strong European Union could have influence. We are not yet so far, but this could be a new role of Austrian foreign policy and thus also of Austrian security policy. The Austrian Federal Government also plays this new role very seriously and accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! As a reason for not having met, you have also raised the question of UN mandate for international operations. I should like to draw your attention to the following, Mr President. They could have inserted in Article 23f B-VG the condition that crisis operations of the European Union are permitted only if they are equipped with a UN mandate. But you didn't. I don't think you did it for good reason. Of course, it should be our goal to have as broad a legitimacy as possible for international crisis operations, but as long as the United Nations has a structure that still comes from the time of the Cold War and a country of purely national interests can prevent an important humanitarian action - namely the mandate for it - one cannot necessarily and in any case depend on a UN mandate. In my opinion, it would be unacceptable and totally impossible to say: While we recognise that there are human rights violations, there is the murder of hundreds of thousands – as we have seen in the Balkans – there is the expulsion of millions of people – but we cannot do anything, and only because a permanent member of the Security Council – whoever that is – is using a veto against a UN mandate. That can't be our goal in a security and defence doctor! Our aim is to have the widest possible alliance in security policy. But there are still very many ways to go until this broad alliance is so equipped that we, as the democratic states, clearly express that we are not prepared to accept human rights violations and violence as a political goal, but to take advantage of all possibilities so that this policy is not carried out. Ladies and gentlemen! If you are already developing visions, you should not exclude medium-term options, but think beyond that. In the sense of this over-thinking, it is particularly evident now, after the terrible terrorist attack of the 11th century. September, what opportunities there are, because suddenly Russia is on board and many countries that have been isolated so far are entering this anti-terrorist community step by step. Perhaps in five, ten or 15 years we will see a development in which we will no longer discuss how much neutrality and how little NATO can be in a security concept. We will no longer discuss what is developing in the European Union, but we will perhaps and hopefully discuss whether we cannot have a global security system of all democratic states within the scope of implementation. That would be a good vision. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the success of this Security Doctor. I believe that this has created a new foundation for Austrian security policy. I hope that the current disapproval of the opposition has only been a interruption and not the end of a very constructive process of negotiation in the committees. The security of Austria requires a national consensus. We'd be ready to do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e17569	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e17590	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If I recall the speeches made so far and also the statements made by the Federal Minister – if I take a little distance from his wishful thinking and visions – I believe that today we are not discussing the new Security and Defence Doctor, but rather the failure of a consensual decision, i.e. the failure of a four-party agreement. I understand the arguments, because it would, of course, be of particular importance for the German Federal Minister for Security and Defence – you have done so – that a cross-party consensus is possible. We were trying to do so, but because of the rigid attitude of the government groups – and above all the ÖVP, I would like to add – it was quite simply not possible to create a new security doctor on a wider basis, Mr Spindelegger. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: You weren't there at all, colleague!]] That is why this joint document, which we have all done for months, will not exist. However, I would like to thank the officials of the Department of Defence, but of course I would also like to join the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; the Ambassador is here today. They have advised and informed us very competently for months. Finally, it has failed politically. Ladies and gentlemen! What will happen now is a government doctor, a black and blue doctrine, but not an Austrian defense and security doctor. I deeply regret that personally – it hurts, ladies and gentlemen! I also have the impression that, for many representatives in this committee, there has been some result, but not a consensus. We Socialists have been very committed to implementing constructive security policies. This also confirms the current concepts, the statements here and our press releases in this context. I would also like to remind you of the motion for a resolution that we have already tabled on 11 November. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But this motion for a resolution was almost unfounded by you. Ladies and gentlemen! We were always seeking a very responsible security policy. Since in the press releases and in the newspapers I regularly read the opinions of the ÖVP and the FPÖ, in which it is said that the fundamentalists have exercised themselves in the SPÖ, I would like to say here: Yes, that is correct – that is, in the sense that we are striving for a responsible security and defence doctor and a corresponding policy! We will also represent these in the future, and I would ask for your understanding. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we speak of a responsible security policy, as we understand it, we mean not only the military dimension, but also the economic, ecological and social dimension. Of course, we are also concerned with a preventive security policy, including EU enlargement and support for the creation and expansion of democratic and rule-of-law structures. This is a forward-looking security understanding, based on the comprehensive security concept we repeatedly presented. There is therefore no compelling reason for security policy to join NATO. Ladies and gentlemen! Accession to NATO does not result in any more security, but only reduces our security margin. NATO – I like to admit – is a well-functioning military alliance, but it cannot be the new security architecture in Europe alone in security policy considerations. It is, of course, designed in such a way that the will of the large Member States is borne, and this kind of foreign regulation cannot be in our interest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us consider the way Austria has gone so far. By joining the EU and in the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties, we have committed ourselves and agreed to actively participate in the development of the European Security and Defence Doctor, including the prospects of European defence policy, which Mr Spindelegger has rightly addressed here today. We are not anti-Americans, and we have no fear of contact with NATO either. We are involved – PfP, the partnership for peace; we have decided together. We have been actively involved when it comes to UN operations, we are involved in the OSCE; you know this in particular, as a foreign politician. Our commitment and our participation have been honoured internationally again and again. So what is the meaning of NATO accession? What is the benefit for Austria? – Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot answer these questions with satisfaction. They often justify this with threats that we might be exposed to. But here you call a country, ladies and gentlemen, which threatens Austria militaryly! In my opinion, this thinking is simply wrong in a friend-enemy scheme. We have read and worked through the analysis part of the present doctrine. One has to say that this shows a very narrow and close view, and the situation is very one-sided. This doctrine – and I say that as an interlocutor – has the character of a military doctor. This is nothing bad in itself, but we simply can't get rid of this narrowness, because the numerous global threats – international organised crime, environmental threats, population development, migration, energy and nutrition problems – are considered there exclusively from a military point of view. We said: It would be preferable and desirable if we were to assume a comprehensive security concept that goes far beyond the military area, including ecological and economic dimensions and social competence. This has not been taken into account by you, ladies and gentlemen. I mean, you chose the wrong path here from the very beginning. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Minister! Instead of first defining the Austrian positioning together – we have repeatedly discussed this – you have faced us with an expert draft that is now being decided almost unchanged by your votes as a draft. They have put us before finished facts from the very beginning. [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] They have not focused on consensus, but have put the abolition of neutrality in the foreground because they want to prepare NATO accession. Mr Pilz has repeatedly spoken about this. I am not always of his opinion, but here he was very constructive and serious. This draws like a red thread through the entire expert design, and we are not available for that. We are not in favour of joining a military alliance, Minister of State! This is simply not for the debate. In the future, we want to make a sovereign decision on our security policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e17655	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e17676	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We are discussing the Security and Defence Doctor – a topic that has now occupied us for about a year in many sessions and many reports. An expert report was presented by the Federal Government – thank you for that! – because you have to have a basis on which to discuss. Mr. Gaál, there is no way to speak of a "surpassing". An excellent paper of analysis was available, which included the basics and the starting position of our country's security policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Your colleague! Unfortunately, Comrade Gusenbauer is not present in the security debate today. But he did yesterday in an amazing way, I would like to say that the square of the circle is straping. If today I read in the headline of the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" that Comrade Gusenbauer wants the Neutrality-Neu mit Miltien Einsatz, then I have to ask myself: Where is neutrality when military action is planned? To whom is this military intervention directed? In the last episode: Then how am I neutral? – It is the square of the circle. I mean, casters and comrades know that, too, Dr. One. But in Austria, I would almost have said, one mogel package of neutrality, although one knows that this neutrality has taken a different development. In colorful, dazzling paper, one puts a box on the gift table of the Austrians and hopes that no one will look in. Then it could be discovered that in this box there is no longer the inside, which is precipitated by the SPÖ in terms of neutrality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr. Dr. Einem! From that you have said that you are against a war participation and therefore for neutrality, I do not want to conclude that everyone else is for war participation. [[Abg. Dr. One: That's all the better!]] I hope you didn't want to suggest that; otherwise I would have to disagree very vehemently here, you know. They are so strongly opposed – Mr Gaál has also done so; he has unfortunately gone out of God now, and the only representative who is still behind the negotiations is Dr. One – just because the government takes note of the reality of security policy, including Europe: that there is a NATO, of course, that we have to deal with this NATO and take note of it, that we have to focus on it and, in the worst case, be happy when we have NATO in the final consequence for us. If we define this NATO so that we want to keep an eye on it, then explain to the public: We cannot accept this doctrine because the Austrian government, and the ÖVP, in particular, want NATO accession and the abolition of neutrality. – I mean, this is a very simple thing not to say: extremely primitive argumentation. Mr. Dr. One, it is a denial of reality if you are proposing something in this context to our people, the Austrians, which is simply not true. The bad thing about it is that you claim this against better knowledge. If you also notice that there have been routes... [[Abg. Dr. One of them talks to a member of the Parliamentary Board.]] - Excuse me for interrupting you! Since in the Socialist Party there is only one person who is concerned with security policy, he should not be drawn into a conversation. You said there were routes, because you could really think there could be a consensus; I would like to agree to that. Mr Spindelegger has already pointed out that we believe this was the case and that your contributions in the negotiations have shown quite clearly in this direction. But we also remember that, when such talks took place, we had to take note of a press release before the next meeting, in which Comrade Guger-, no, Gusenbauer, Comrade Fischer... [[Abg. Gaál: Gugerbauer?]] It can also be Guger-bauer, colleague Gaál, that doesn't matter. – We were told: This doctrine is not approved! – This has been the course of the discussion, and that is why we are convinced that the will was present, but you have unfortunately been rebuffed. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This security and defence doctor already means a difference from the name. We have so far had a national defence doctor and have now gone on to formulate a comprehensive security doctor. This also confirms that, in addition to the state defense – the focus of the state defense, which Mr Gaál felt was too strong as an interlocutor – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Interior were also employed in addition to the state defence. That is why the approach is that a new security policy is the goal of this Security and Defence Doctor, so that it is no longer a national defense doctor, Mr Gaál. One important difference is that one wants to take account of prevention, that one wants to prevent conflicts in the face of conflict, that in the sensitive areas one should do everything possible to strengthen democracy and to support the economy in these countries, that one takes account of work, that one supports the social systems accordingly, and that the rule of law... [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Where?]] [[Abg. Dr. One: That's how it's in your doctrine!]] You've read this and I know that's why we know that's in it. We can then find the place after that, because I know it, and you too, colleague One. Unfortunately, my time is not enough to inform you today of all that we have done with this Security and Defence Doctrine and to tell you how necessary it is for the security of a small country like Austria to build up its security architecture in solidarity with the others and to participate in this framework. We have a corresponding threat scenario and security risks not only since 11. September, but already defined before and in retrospect also formulated the view in the analysis part accordingly. Col. Pilz! We know that in the next eight, nine, ten years there will be no war against Austria. You're only right. But to think that because it has not been burned in a community for eight years, one should abolish the fire brigade in this community and around it – that can't be it! We do not want to go this way in our country's security policy either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have committed ourselves to European safety criteria. We have entered into solidarity agreements with the UN and the PfP – Partnership for Peace. We signed the Amsterdam contracts. All of these are treaties of solidarity in which we have expressed our views. That's not what we're saying neutrally: Yes, we are on both sides or on no side, but we are taking a position in our security policy. We have signed this together, Mr One, and today you say: We cannot agree because then we are no longer neutral!, and cover with the left hand Your signature under the declarations of solidarity! – I do not think we should inform the Austrian population. These are mogel packages we don't need. We should name things and inform them about what security means for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! This doctrine is the good, the predictable, the solid way for our country and for security, as well as, I add, because I am spokespersons, the mission for our federal army and for our soldiers.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e17823	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e17844	Ladies and gentlemen! As the first woman to speak on the subject of Security Doctrine, allow me to look at it a little bit more fundamentally. The past management of the situation or the non-consistency of a four-party union has already been sufficiently carried out. When the announcement of the government parties took place to create a comprehensive security doctor who would not only take military aspects into account, I initially thought this was a fascinating and interesting idea. [[Abg. Grandruck: But!]] There has been no failure in the document or in the deliberations. Only the Minister of Defence has participated in the Committee's deliberations on the part of the Government. Today, in turn, only the Minister of Defence sits on the government bank. [[Abg. Murauer: That's not true! The Foreign Minister took part, the Minister for the Interior took part! You weren't in the committee?]] When Mr. Jung spoke, he was particularly pleased with the implementation of the defense doctor or the so-called Security Doctor only to the Austrian Federal Army. [[Abg. Young:... was the Minister of Defense there!]] That means the language is clear. They have long adopted a general, truly comprehensive definition of security and focused purely on military security. [[Abg. Young: Have you read that too?]] That was for you the goal and the only thing you've really been interested in. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: You didn't read it!]] On the question of social security, on the question of real crisis prevention in a comprehensive sense – not only perceived by the German army, as Mr. Jung wishes – you will find nothing where it is decided. You will find some nice explanations in the introduction, but it is just a difference between what is in the introduction, and what is then contained in the executing part. They have missed out on the opportunity to create a truly comprehensive security doctrine that will bring not only the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs into a central part of a security doctor, but also economic and social issues for prevention – of course for crisis prevention. Ladies and gentlemen! And if you don't believe it in your own request – it seems to me that way – then please read the chapter "Participations". Read the chapter "External Policy", and see how many points of it are, so to speak, in military relevance and which at least have something to do with a comprehensive foreign policy concept. If Mr Murauer, who was at the heart of this safety doctor's report before us, has been advocating this prevention, I would like to ask him whether he has not taken the wrong note and, in fact, had in his hand a health policy opinion by Mr Groenewald when he spoke about prevention. Prevention in the real sense is not sufficiently taken into account, not as comprehensively emphasized as you had originally announced. Missing opportunities all over the line! That is not acceptable, of course not for us! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Have you read this at all?]] The second point in this doctrine, which angers me properly, is the title "From Neutrality to Solidarity". [[Abg. Murauer: And you don't find prevention there?]] Someone who can only understand solidarity more militaryly, Mr. Col., one who only understands solidarity as a result of participation in combat operations has probably missed something in his socialization than it was about to be solidarity and to learn and practice it in practice. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, without a concept of prevention, there is no debate on security policy, a security debate cannot be held at all. And now I am at the heart of the debate, because you are developing it so beautifully: from neutrality to solidarity! Yes, we, as neutral states, have the greatest chance, not only of influencing the security and military policy debate in Europe towards a new defence system, a new European security system, but now, ladies and gentlemen, we have the greatest opportunities in terms of active neutrality policy, active peace and crisis prevention policy. However, this is difficult and expensive, and that's why you don't want to do it. However, they are very willing to spend a lot of money on senseless interception drinks. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come to another point, which I find very negative at the doctrine and which has become annoyed when reading. [[Abg. Böhacker: Again! You often have to get angry!]] Do you know how the list sequence was always when the list of dangers occurred in Europe? – International terrorism, crime and then immediately illegal migration and sometimes even migration. One of the greatest dangers you see in Europe is migration! [[Abg. Young: I thought there were only military things inside!]] If you're on the analysis section you're after 11. Not having revised September, building up is no wonder that you are demonstrating here a view that is party-politically motivated, operates with a fear of migration and has nothing at all to do with where there are real threats and wherever prevention could and should occur. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Young: Pilz, on the other hand, is a good thing, who at least has an idea of what he is talking about!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You missed a huge chance with this doctrine. They have failed to develop a security role for Austria in Europe from an active neutrality policy. You have failed to set milestones by really looking for consensus across the party borders. If you only signal a willingness to talk in your eyes as long as you join the other fully without having your own opinion, then I must say that you have a great misunderstanding of democratic culture. But maybe you'll learn that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18060	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18081	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now heard some arguments from the opposition, which are supposed to speak against this new security doctor. If Mr Pilz claims that the Austrian federal army was so poorly equipped during the Cold War, we agree with him. We have always complained about this, too, and it is a fact, Mr Pilz, that you did not have to give up the blessings of real socialism because of the NATO you were so shocked by. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Egghart.]] We understand that you, Mr Pilz, are annoyed by her. With us, however, it's just the other way round: We are glad that, thanks to NATO's shielding after the Second World War, we were able to experience the longest time of prosperity. From the SPÖ side, right from your side, Mr. Dr. Einm, has come an accusation that has to be rejected. You have said that this government does not take it so seriously with the Constitution. This accusation must be returned to you, because you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, do not take it seriously with your constitution. This government – and we can insist clearly on it – does not change the constitution. This government describes the constitutional reality that has been left to us by the SPÖ. It gives man pure wine as to what you have done in this area. On the other hand, they – which was also to be heard yesterday in the speech of your party president – want to present an X for a U to the population. However, it was the SPÖ that abolished the neutrality de facto. The Federal Minister has already addressed this. It was also the SPÖ that led Austria de facto to NATO with the "Partnership for Peace". At the time, as an opposition party, we were very critically accompanying this, but in principle we welcomed it. Ladies and gentlemen! At all the conferences of the Heads of Government following our accession to the EU, SPÖ Chancellors have contributed all EU decisions on the common security and defence policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Shasching: That's something new!]] But then – and now I also understand the fights you continue to make – these SPÖ chancellors came from Amsterdam, from Berlin or wherever they have been back to Austria and have at home – I do not know what your party is called – in the Council of Elders or wherever the small prints they signed there, and they came to the realization: Jessas, now we've dissolved neutrality! But it's not that bad, we just don't say it loud. – This is the SPÖ trick. From there, the SPÖ – this is the time of the option report you have tried to create with your former coalition partner ÖVP – became the political sports party: Fights, Salti backward, eternal arguments – we could hear them again today – have been dug out, and the sweat is flowing in streams with you. Alone, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, I can tell you it won't help you. Time goes on, whether the SPÖ wants it or not. [[Abg. Schasching: We will discuss this after the next sporting event!]] They have also complained that this security doctor is not far enough. This Security Doctrine – the Minister has addressed this – creates a comprehensive security concept. The threat images are also comprehensively set out. Read this Security Doctrine, for example, page 9: consistent commitment to respect for human rights worldwide, a fair contribution to international peacekeeping efforts, conflict prevention, crisis management, post-crisis care, support for Third World countries in their efforts to achieve economic, social, democratic and environmental development, improvement of international environmental protection. Ladies and gentlemen! This Security Doctor ensures that Austria can continue to make a successful, modern and good security policy in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18150	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18171	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Anton Gaál and Mr Kaspar In terms of content, one explained why it was not possible for the Social Democrats to agree to a request for a Security Doctor supported by four parties. There were two cracks – we discussed them in detail – which I would like to clarify once again emotionally. On the one hand, the Social Democrats are saying: We want to preserve neutrality for Austria, we want a neutrality that makes it possible to implement peacekeeping measures with UN mandates. On the other hand, the government, which believes that it is only about freedom of alliance, which, in the end, wants to leave the way to NATO via a back door. Ladies and gentlemen! I have not been able to see to this day – and I have been taking part in the meetings of the relevant committees since May – why the ÖVP and also the FPÖ want so far out of neutrality. There will certainly be an explanation for this, but I have not yet been able to see it. We have just been blamed for this statement! Ladies and gentlemen! If you ask why, then, I mean, you should also look at the story. We have heard it – and the Federal Minister has even shown us an attack plan of the Warsaw Pact – and we know that the Warsaw Pact was a serious threat to the West. However, this time is over and over. It is not true that we must expect hostile measures from this direction tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, in the near future, Austria must not be afraid to be attacked by anyone militaryly, especially since we also know that NATO will surround us in the near future. We will therefore be able to enjoy any kind of security here in the scope of NATO, not as a blackmailer, but from a certain understanding of neutrality. [[Abg. Murauer: Like what?]] In this context, I can refer to the history of the last 100 years; we have already spoken about 50 years ago. We know that the last century has brought terrible conflicts with it. I think of 1914, the First World War. At the time, too, in the context of an alliance, we went into a conflict that became a disaster. We know that in 1939, under an expansion-based insanity regime, a place should have been created in Europe, which was not achieved thanks to God. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the civil war-like state in Austria should not be forgotten either. Something like that must never happen again! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the need for security and peace, for long-lasting, lasting peace, is also being felt by the people in neutrality. Neutrality is the cap. We know: More than three quarters of the Austrians want them. You assume or you say that neutrality has been undermined, no longer takes place anyway. But who prevents us from redefining and amending, as has been said, ladies and gentlemen, the neutrality, as Gusenbauer said, so that we can help the oppressed in this world in solidarity, just as we have done in the past? [[Abg. Boy: So you mean as you understand!]] In Hungary’s uprising, Austria has been able to help the persecuted because of its neutrality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Of course, it was also true that during the ČSSR crisis, Austria's neutrality has been a source of valuable help for fleeing Czechs and Slovaks, ladies and gentlemen. Let us not pretend that neutrality did not make sense to us in the past! We did a job in Europe at the time. I also like to admit that she was originally forced, because it was the only way to freedom at the time, but we did well with it. And if you say that the Neutrals have no chance in the long run, then I refer to Switzerland. They understood it "Wonderful" to deal with neutrality. We have more understanding of solidarity and therefore we want to know how to deal with it together. [[Abg. Murauer: The "Switzerland Way" is also a question of finances!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we go this way together, we redefine neutrality. Let us save ourselves the way into a military alliance, but let us also be there if we need to be solid, if we need to be solid, to support the people of this world – I am going from Europe – where they need our help!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18244	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18266	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Security is not everything, but without security everything is nothing. These words are preceded by the analysis section of the Security Doctrine, and they show very well that this is a really important issue today. I deeply regret that there are so few members of the Social Democrats present. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Count yours once! You probably lost the overview!]] [[Abg. Murauer: (in the direction of SPÖ) But you lack just Gaál, One and Arbitrator!]] It is all the more regrettable that there has not been a four-party agreement, an agreement that would have been appropriate to the importance and scope of the issue, an agreement that could have carried the conclusions of the House on this important internal and external issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Such an agreement, which would have articulated Austria's security policy clearly, transparently and comprehensiblely, would have been important for the Austrians, but also for our neighbours and friends in the European Union. Without a doubt, the opposition is reserved to express a different opinion and to distinguish itself from the government in this respect. Everything else, however, would be a democratic policy-related behavior. But precisely on this topic a draw-on-one-and-the-same-strang would have been desirable, a consensus would have been displayed in red-and-white red. Security policy, ladies and gentlemen, is not suitable for party policy. At least the SPÖ, if not the Greens, could have demonstrated its state-bearing role, at least it could have deviated from its fundamental opposition and opened up to the dialogue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Security policy has always been a stepchild of the SPÖ; some of my predecessors have already pointed this out. Whether airspace surveillance, the equipment of the ground forces or the participation in international operations – the famous "Njet" of the Social Democrats is still in our ears. Even when we joined the European Union, the security-political credo of the Social Democrats, namely the Neutrality Act, was like a demonoclescre about our efforts, and today we are lucky to say that this thread was not torn at the time. Today, on the other hand, this thread seems to be torn. What makes the position of social democracy different from that of the government groups? – By the NATO option, which is well known to be incompatible with neutrality. According to Social Democracy, it is well known that it is necessary to save neutrality, which makes it so simply populist about voting. Ladies and gentlemen! Neutrality had its meaning, was entitled to its existence, and served well at its time. Today, on the other hand, it is important to build a larger, united Europe, as the new areas of threat have been developing, especially since the 11. In September, no longer than merely theoretical considerations, it is now important to rely on solidarity. And solidarity means negotiating common security solutions, dealing together with the many threats, caring for the neighbor's house as much as his own. Or would you like the Social Democracy to stay with the image of the house, while organizing a garden party with your neighbors, but looking forward to a fire over the newly won view? I don't think so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With today's motion for a resolution, this government confirms that it is in the heart of Europe. With this motion for a resolution, this government articulates that its security policy is a serious concern that it will take part in the common European effort, that it simply owes the Austrians that a future-oriented security policy is being made in this country. There is, of course, still a lot of work to be done, but it is important to point out that the SPÖ has remained in the past with its security policy considerations. But we are happy to assume this responsibility, for as stated at the outset: Security is not everything, but without security everything is nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18353	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18374	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too, as you can imagine, will rather address those aspects which we believe are not in this security and defence doctrine. It's not called foreign policy doctrine or something, it's called security and defence doctrine. As has already been pointed out, the external aspects have been rather lacking. It was surprising that even the spokesperson of the SPÖ meant that even for him this doctrine was more of a military doctrine. In this case, I would very much like to agree with him. This has already been expressed in the history of the origin, and that has already been mentioned by my colleague, Lichtenberger. It has sometimes been said that the external aspects must also be more involved, that security is now comprehensive and that it is no longer just military thinking, but in the events surrounding this Security Doctrine and also around the Security Council up to the present text and implementation, there have been some things that have happened to me, which raise quite specific doubts in us that this is not true. On the government bank, only the Minister of Defence, you from ÖVP and FPÖ wanted to abolish the Foreign Council and, so to speak, to sum up everything in a national Security Council. This has not been followed; at least that has succeeded. Mr Jung, too, meant that foreign policy and internal policy should be included. But luckily, you only wished the German army, not even the Ministry of State Defense and not even the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of the Interior. This perception reflects what we have experienced all the time, that you have, in particular, put the military aspects of security in the foreground. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Minister Scheibner! You said earlier that Austria had been lucky in the time of neutrality, so to speak, because there had been no attacks and, in spite of the Warsaw Pact plan, nothing happened. But what destroyed these plans of the Warsaw Pact in the final effect was neither the Austrian federal army nor any other army, but these were the democratic and human rights movements in the states of the Eastern bloc, which simply did not want them any more. They have been the ones who have realized that these regimes have fallen, and then, as a result, there has been no longer any such plans. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: And what about the NATO double decision?]] The consequence of this must be that security is a foreign peace policy, the development of democracy and human rights movements, the support of good governance, as it is now called in the trade language, of anti-corruption measures, but also of economic development. This is also happening in your doctrine. For example: These risks can be addressed by preventive measures on the ground, including extensive measures of political and economic support, assistance in the construction of democratic and rule-of-law structures and international military presence on the ground. So you are already looking at political and economic support, but it is not really happening in the measures you are planning. I would just like to raise a few points here. The external aspects of security policy include a consistent commitment to respect for human rights and international law worldwide. - No, no, no, no, no, But what does it look like, for example, in the Parliamentary Human Rights Committee? There, it is not even possible for the government groups to vote in favour of applications criticising human rights violations in different countries and to ask the government to speak against them as well. [[Abg. Boy: You're confusing something!]] This is not even possible, but that is also part of the implementation, Mr Jung. In no case is this a consistent commitment to respect for human rights. Or the support of the Third World countries: Mr Spindelegger! They said you should not believe that you can have security without making your own contribution. You have probably also referred to the financial contribution, and I very much agree with it. But Austria is now almost final in the funds used for development cooperation, and you know that very well. Even now, in the preparation of the law, there was no commitment from the governments to provide for an increase in funds or to carry out measures to a greater extent. So, on the foreign policy aspect, you say things you do not intend to do. International Environment Policy, Rio Process: What's in there? Nothing! Something concrete stands only for the area of defence policy inside. There's inside, for example: The Ministry of Defence is expected to issue a White Paper every two years. – So there's concrete inside. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: That's what happened – isn't it?]] Yes, but there is nothing in the field of foreign policy! This simply reflects that you are mainly concerned with the area of defence, the area of military security, but not with a foreign policy based on peace. This vision is also reflected exactly in the text of the application. This includes, for example, the enlargement of NATO, which is an important security aspect, but the enlargement of the EU does not occur. Have you come across the liberals again with their anti-enhancement line and so you had to restrict yourself to the extension of NATO? Is not enlargement of the EU – especially rapid enlargement – perhaps not the right one? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we stand for and what does not appear in your paper is neutrality. They're just talking about an alliance-free Austria. Neutrality is for you something from the moth chest of history, for us it is not. Neutrality can also play a role in a democratic European security system. It is not a tactic, Mr Spindelegger, and you know it very well. She wasn't in the past either. Since 1960, Austria – and I do not need to tell you that – has allowed 40 000 soldiers to participate in UN operations. That, too, means solidarity! [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Have you read the Neutrality Act? Read it once! Section I and Section II! "...to defend with all the means at the command" is in there!]] What would also be necessary, but which does not happen here, are Austrian initiatives for global rule of law. It would also have to be a global responsibility of Austria in economic, social and environmental matters and not just the economic interests of Austria. In the medium and long term only the interests of Austria are perceived internationally, that is far from enough if one does not at the same time assume this global responsibility. In this sense: You know that and why we can't agree to this doctrine.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18472	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18493	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is an important day. After more than 25 years, Austria receives a new, modern security and defence doctor. In just a few months, a very good work has been done, due not only to the meticulous preparatory work of officials and professionals who are to be thanked in this context, but also to the efforts of the chairman of the Subcommittee. Over the past few months, Wolfgang Jung has repeatedly sought to reach out for material compromises and for the involvement of all political forces in this House, as has been recognised by Mr Spindelegger fairly. I was surprised at the fact that no agreement was reached in the end, because in the subcommittee it was quite possible for a long time to give the impression that there was a high degree of material agreement. The suggestions of the Socialist Members have been accepted and taken into account. Whoever finally gave them the withdrawal order, Mr Jung has already speculated about it. Obviously the old socialist way of thinking and not "New Labour" have prevailed with you. It is the good right of the opposition to say: All this is not enough for us, we want to turn the wheel of history back and act like nothing has changed since 1955, since the State Treaty and the Neutrality Act! However, how credible such an argument is, ladies and gentlemen, is another thing, because that neutrality has changed substantially, not only since the Petersberg tasks have everyone been clear. But this must be explained first of all by the Austrian Social Democracy, which I believe as a state-bearing party, which I believe has resigned from its friends in the Socialist International. The government parties can't make it that easy. After the end of the so-called East Block and the upheavals of recent years, especially in the past decade, it was high time to take account of the new world and European political circumstances. The current concept is based entirely on this changed situation, it is comprehensive and currently designed. It is no longer based solely on military scenarios, such as the case of classical national defence, but it also takes very concrete account of the new forms of threat that have obviously been avoided by some Members in this House, namely the spread of weapons of mass destruction, which is very well contained in this concept, or also of the question of international terrorism, organized crime, Mrs Colleague, which seems to have escaped you, destabilising arms developments and many other developments. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Only one they did not escape!]] We liberals are therefore on this new security and defence doctrine. We do not want to wait – as the Social Democrats always do – for a future united EU policy! The Federal Minister has already made it very clear when and where Austrian soldiers are used, and this must continue to be the decision of the Austrian authorities. Finally, a few brief comments on the opposition's shin argument that it could not agree to this doctrine for neutrality reasons or because it led directly to NATO. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] The coalition soberly notes today's reality. This has already been explained to you by several speakers, Mrs Colleague: Austria is currently an alliance-free partner in the EU. You should have read only on page 10(14) concerning foreign policy aspects of security policy. There, in the conjunctiv – in the form of a possibility – it is said that accession to NATO would only take place with the approval of the population after a referendum. I guess that's clear! I hope everyone understands that! I think that only someone who deliberately wants to misunderstand this can come to other considerations for tactical reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18540	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18558	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) After the decision of the security doctor of ÖVP and FPÖ, the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" – I took the paper – entitled "From "neutral" becomes "alliance-free". – It leaves one to stop when outsiders write about the security doctor that the government avoids the word "neutrality" and defines it in the direction of "Allianz freedom"! This is what I am saying now: That's a neutrality trick! [[Abg. Young: The first step has been taken by a Social Democratic chancellor!]] This is a hallucination of neutrality and the preparation for NATO accession! [[Abg. Boy: You voted!]] Mr. Jung! This is also a wonderful fit in the picture of the German Chancellor on the 1st century. May of this year he painted by saying that neutrality, Lipizzan and Mozart balls are old hats! [[Federal Minister Scheibner: He did this on 26 June. October said!]] Thank you, Minister! ==References== October said neutrality, Mozart balls and Lipizzans were old hats. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] [[Abg. Young: Who changed the Constitution? Wasn't that you?]] NATO is clearly seen by the ÖVP as the only European security component. The fact is, however, that Austria is a neutral state, and this includes that our state does not belong to any military alliance. And it is also essential for Austria that, before sending Austrian soldiers into combat operations, a mandate of the UN Security Council must be available and that this cannot be decided by individual states according to their situation of interest. [[Abg. Young: You gave up this too and not us! But now you're sorry about it!]] If Mr Spindelegger has said that the SPÖ has turned out, that's right. Yes, I do! The SPÖ has sounded out because the ÖVP insisted on setting up NATO membership as an option in the Security Doctor. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: We have been in the EU for five years!]] And presenting NATO accession and neutrality as equivalent options or equivalent opportunities, which is not acceptable to SPÖs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18694	The next speaker is Mr Loos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18713	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker of my group on this subject, I am allowed a brief replica. Members of Parliament have spoken of failure. – I ask: Who failed here? . At the last meeting of the Committee, both One and Pilz have found with very nice words how far we have come and how they would like to agree. I believe that at least the SPÖs have failed in their own party, at least those who are committed to security policy, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is a pity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is remarkable what contentious opinions there are sometimes: This is the case, for example. One of a deepening of the political union. – You know that there have been treaties in Maastricht and Amsterdam, which set out that the common security and defence policy in the EU should also be continued, and if you are in favour of a deepening of the EU, you must also stand! We had to accept the first Treaty when we joined the EU, and at the time of the conclusion of the Treaty of Amsterdam we were already in the EU and voted in favour, and the government was also the social democrats. That's right, I don't think anything! I would just like to say so much about neutrality: We're all realists. We know that a change of law would only be possible with two-thirds majority and that if the SPÖ does not agree, there will not be this change of law. In the analysis section, however, we have found how neutral Austria actually behaved, and this does not correspond to the behaviour that should be the case in the case of ever-increasing neutrality. One must perceive the facts, I believe, and unfortunately that God did not happen at the SPÖ. I would have been very pleased if those who would have liked to cooperate had really been more successful in this regard! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] To the Member of Parliament Pilz: He spoke of Europeanisation and said that, so to speak, the evil NATO or any commander of NATO could buy what has to happen. If, for example, Mr Pilz had considered the motion for a resolution carefully, he could have read the following: "The final decision on security issues lies with the democratically legitimate national political authorities." We Austrian or the Austrian National Council therefore determine where and when to use our side – and not anyone from Brussels or America! Now I think of something: I heard and looked at yesterday's mission on the subject, and Mr Cap spoke of it as saying that he had actually been a advocate of NATO in the past and only got rid of it, because now the administration and government of Bush are at work. – It is not known to me that Mr Bush had interfered with the SPÖ and said who would be Klubobmann! That was not the case! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Unfortunately, my speaking time is relatively short, but I would like to say something about it: We have also talked about the importance of foreign policy in this case. Clearly, Mr Bush will not have had time to look at this mission, and he will therefore not have heard this statement. I mean, however, that it is not very smart, as an Austrian politician, at least as a clubman of a party, the American president is not exactly in a very good light. That's what Cap did in this case, and that wasn't very wise. As I said, I don't suppose Bush saw this and that's why it's going to be difficult. But perhaps Mr Klubobmann should be a little more careful next time! [[Ironic cheerfulness and applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] Mr President, I should like to thank I'm just talking about Cap! Our Federal Chancellor has made some very good contributions today! He speaks very well here in Parliament himself, and therefore I do not need to defend him in any way! He'll do that himself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Leikam.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This Security and Defence Doctor is a very comprehensive matter. [[Abg. Leikam: How about a bowl?]] The latter has been criticized by some Members here. However, I wish all those who have to do with this security and defence doctrine a good hand, namely the foreign politicians, the economic politicians, the social politicians, the environmentalists, the politicians who are striving for internal security, and, of course, also the defence politicians who today have insulted Mr Pilz, but he should make that up with them. I know because I have a job to do in this area because there are really good people there, in all the areas I have now mentioned. We all and all these politicians will contribute to this – and this is actually the meaning and purpose of the whole matter – that citizens in Austria can continue to feel secure!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18796	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e18818	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Spindelegger, your speech – as a "red" I can't call it – which you gave in here was really more than strange! You're turning the truth the way you need it! I was present at the meeting of the National Defence Committee and I made the effort to get your opinion out of the "parliamentary correspondence". – I suppose it will be right that it is written there that you have admitted that there has been an open discussion, "in which all have gone to the border of what was still bearable for them. There were a number of constructive contributions that can play an important role in the future." – This is Mr Spindelegger’s statement in committee on 7 July. December. ==References====External links== However, in December, in the website of the ÖVP, "there was no room for a common line in security policy in the SPÖ as always". – Spindelegger like this – spindlegger just like he needs it! [[Abg. Parnigoni: You speak with split tongue!]] Deputies! I say in all clarity – and I have already tried to put this to your remarks with an intermediate call –: I point out to you that the SPÖ has an disturbed relationship with the Federal Army, back to the strictest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Spindelegger.]] Mr Spindelegger, I can remind you that it was a SPÖ's sole government, which created the last suitable defense plan for the Austrian federal army! [[Interference of Federal Minister Scheibner.]] That's not true, Minister. That wasn't the coalition. The coalition came only in 1983! The National Defence Plan was already in force! These papers have already been adopted under SPÖ's sole government! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Spindelegger.]] So you can't say the SPÖ didn't care about the federal army! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Spindelegger, we already have a problem with this, if there are politicians, before me or behind me, who believe that the German army is a playing field of the ÖAAB! We have no understanding of this! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Yes!]] I want... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] You don't have a chance! I'm way too long than you could get me out of the concept! I'd like to go into a little more detail now. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Murauer.]] Much has been said about the general political part. Minister! You have complained that you cannot perform meaningful tasks and that you need a security and defence doctor. We have always said that the country and defence plan needs to be revised in this form. And now we have... [[Abg. Young: A great and awesome result!]] You, too, have no chance of getting me out of the concept! [[Abg. Young: I just succeeded!]] You yourself meant that we now have milestones. – Let’s take a look at these briefly in the section “Development Policy” in general: The conclusions that will be drawn are that there must be or must be a preparation and further development of all military core functions. – Translated into German: You have to do what you have done so far, namely to perform all military core functions at a high level. So you still have conventional threats to ward off. Interesting is – and this is really new to me –: You're talking about a division equivalent in this doctrine. [[Abg. Young: Yes!]] What is this, Mr Brigadier? For me, a division equivalent is between 3,000 upwards over 5,000 to 10,000. So far, we've been talking about a brigade. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Young.]] So if we're talking about a division equivalent now, that's new! [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Ready to use!]] [[Abg. Young: They confuse two paragraphs! You need to read more precisely!]] I come to the last point I have made. – Minister of State! The following point 10 is added: "In order to fulfil the defined national and international tasks, the Federal Government must ensure the necessary budgetary, human and infrastructure conditions." - Aha! This is a completely new realization! I hope you do! [[Interference of Federal Minister Scheibner.]] The last three budgets, Mr Federal Minister, have not succeeded! Explain This is the point of the doctrine, too, your Minister of Finance! Perhaps then you will have a chance to meet your financial obligations! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is by no means such that everything contained in this doctrine is not necessary. But it is very likely that this doctrine – after Khol – is now temporarily opened, closed, aside or something else. – We will be available for further discussions in the sense of a meaningful national defence and security policy in Austria at any time!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19023	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19042	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Kummerer, I am very pleased that you are taking care of our Minister in this way! They meant that there was no job performance for him. - I see it differently! He has, as it is necessary, first provided for planning, and he wants to implement this planning now. That's how you deal with these things, but apparently you don't understand anything about management, although you're at the ÖMV! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] For many years we have been trying to create a security and defence doctor or put on the legs, and I am particularly pleased that our minister and his staff have managed to present an effective doctrine corresponding to the needs of the possible threats and above all, overall! It is particularly important for me to insist on how comprehensive and comprehensive this doctrine is. It is not only about military threat scenarios, which hardly exist for Austria – even though the collapse of Yugoslavia and the war is unfortunately still very good in our state border and partly also over our state border – but also about other threat scenarios, such as international terrorism, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, environmental disasters, nuclear threats and arms trafficking. – Let me briefly address the arms trade or the ABC weapons. With regard to the B weapons for the fight in the bacterial field, for example, with spleen fire, plague, typhus, cholera, twelve states pursue offensive weapons programs, and these weapons are thus the most important weapons of mass destruction in the 21st century. ==References== With regard to the C weapons, i.e. nerve combatants such as skin, blood and lung combatants, 30 states are actively working on programs. The advantage of this weapons hole – if you can speak of advantages in this regard – is that these weapons are cheap. A liter of nerve fighting material Sarin costs only 70 s, and it can kill about a million people. Ladies and gentlemen! The fight against such tragic threat scenarios requires a networked structure and cooperation with all parties involved, on the one hand with regard to prevention, in order to counter possible threats from the outset, but on the other hand, in order to be able to act quickly and efficiently in the event of disasters. All departments and institutions are required to ensure the internal and external security of Austria, and they do so. Security is how we have been since the events of the 11th. September know, unfortunately relative. What we, as responsible politicians, can contribute to the security of Austria will, in my view, be the decision of this Security and Defence Doctor. I am really sad that the opposition to these negotiations has been dropped in the last minute, and I would therefore like to ask you the question: What is worth more to you: the security of Austria or party ideology?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19102	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19123	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot in this debate, and I can do quite a bit of what Mr Hartinger has just said, because for me too the security concept of this government is too narrow. We have to ask ourselves what this area of safety actually is. – Not about about one speaks in the science of "comprehensive security", i.e. of comprehensive security. And I can remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the black and blue government, that you have, for example, neglected the area of social security seriously! Your government's actions, especially against the socially weaker and elderly, destabilize the general sense of security. But also in the field of defence policy, the view must be quite simply broader. ==References====External links== It is also necessary to involve the criminal and terrorist sector in the reflections and to take effective action on September. In the field of international cooperation and cross-border cooperation, there is a need to provide sufficient staff and financial resources, in particular for executives. This lacks, and there is also a lack of training! It is important to me to make it clear here today that for the SPÖ, the neutrality with which we have always done well is too important to say goodbye to her songless and soundless. Ladies and gentlemen! Neutrality is part of our identity, and it has not been challenged by any state in the world, neither in times of cold war nor in the context of the enlargement of the European Union. Only the Austrian People's Party tries to question neutrality over and over again, and in this respect it is now in a clear contrast to the Austrian population. We do not need to go to vote, but we are one with the people in this country on this point, because many surveys show that far more than 60 percent of Austrians are in favour of maintaining neutrality. Ladies and gentlemen! Also in connection with the new Security Doctor, the erodement of our neutrality is like a red or rather a black thread through all discussions conducted by the ÖVP. The strategy seems to be clear: First, one wants to ban the word "neutrality" as far as possible from all the papers, and then – that is the calculation of this government – the hallucination of neutrality will progress. But I can promise you that this bill will not go up, ladies and gentlemen, because the SPÖ feels committed to the value of neutrality! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The ÖVP should rather try not to ruin our excellent reputation in the world as a reliable neutral interlocutor in record time! Neither veto threats nor misplays with playing cards in sleeves such as the Causa Temelín are enough for the benefit of our country! Of course, the framework conditions have changed since 1955, but neutrality still has its absolute right. Neutrality also has an important role for Europe, both ex-legislatively and in practice. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Which one?]] Of the currently 15 states, eleven are, as you know, Federal Minister, in a military alliance. However, it is not stated in any paper that this ratio must develop even more towards NATO, and therefore hardly anyone here understands the eternal baldness of the ÖVP around NATO membership. Once again, this government will decide against the will of the majority. It should be noted that the Austrians' wish... [[Abg. Murauer: Do you believe what you say? Or do you have to say that?]] Mr Murauer! You're right! It should be noted that action is being taken against the wishes of the population! It is in line with the Austrians' wish that Austria does not continue to participate in wars. [[Abg. Murauer: You know it's not!]] And that is why neutrality is still the best guarantee! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19193	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Count. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19212	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have followed this debate closely, you have to conclude that you do not want to know anything more about many of the decisions you have initiated or carried out in the past! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] If my National Council colleague, Mr. Captain Kummerer, and I come to a military practice tomorrow, we are currently serving under a joint reserve defence plan. I would like to point out that the national defence plan was adopted unanimously in Parliament in 1975. And we have the same effort and the Federal Minister has now made himself. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: Seven years!]] It took seven years then. But the new Federal Government is working a little faster, I would like to point this out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] With regard to the points you have now raised, I would like to ask you to see the facts. What are the facts? – The fact is that you are now constantly motivating about 'neutrality' – as honourable Member Prehauser said. To this end, I would like to say: We have joined the EU without reservations of neutrality, and according to Article 23f of the Federal Constitution Act, which was also borne by you, a participation in the CFSP can take place. In particular, I would like to remind you of Mr Schieder's first speech at the Officers' Society in Graz. You said at the time that you were in favour of Austria moving towards a European defence identity. And that's exactly what happened! I would like to point out that this report stands with the motion for a resolution on the debate, which is not what happened before, but what is finally established. – This report states: "The security of Austria and the security of the EU are inseparably linked. Austria today implements its security policy essentially within the framework of the EU." The point you initiated at the time is therefore also included. The whole area of security policy is very important, as the Federal Minister has said, and therefore it should be borne by all parties, as was the case in the past. If you are still moving a little bit in this regard, we can come to a historic conclusion! We have taken along all the objections you had. We now have a security policy – you can already see when you read through the Preamble – aimed at avoiding conflicts in the approach. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Our aim is to avoid creating conflicts at all. We pursue a security policy based on the Charter of the United Nations, the international agreements on the protection of human and freedom rights, the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. – What prevents So you want to take this far-reaching decision for us, for all of you, as well as for all those who serve this system, so all soldiers and reserve soldiers? I asked you to do this! This is a common way of making a historic decision in this regard!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19267	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Defence to take note of this report III-87 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and that is the reason why the request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 939. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and this is the resolution that has been adopted. (E 114.) 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (806 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Security Police Act and adopting a federal law on the establishment and organisation of the Federal Criminal Office (908 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19326	We're coming to the 3rd. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Parnigoni has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19353	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The safety of the population in all villages and cities is always a concern of the SPÖ. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Parnigoni, has a lot to do!]] Mr Schweitzer, that is fate: sometimes not for a long time, sometimes in a row. That's it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19380	Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask the first speaker to be given the opportunity to be heard on this item on the agenda. I ask you to take care of it!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19395	Thank you, Mr President. – The SPÖ has dealt very seriously with the submission to the Federal Criminal Office. In all discussions, we have never resolved that we are in principle in favour of improving the fight against crime, especially in order to strengthen cooperation in the area of Europe in the field of "Eupol", the Interpol, in the context of international crime control. It is also our concern to force the development of crime analysis, to strengthen research and to develop crime technology accordingly. We consider it useful to bring about improvements in coordination, such as bringing together certain units – organisational units, special units – here parts of the economic police and of the group C the towing instituencies and choosing some superior procedure. We were ready to negotiate and we had quite constructive discussions. We have also negotiated the Federal Criminal Office as our own authority. However, we also want to look at the environment in which this new massive conversion of the safety executive is carried out.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19424	May I ask once again to give the speaker the opportunity to be heard, and not necessarily to put outside discussions here in the hall! [[Federal Minister Scheibner talks with Members of Parliament in addition to the series of seats of the Freemans.]] This also applies to Federal Ministers!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19457	Ladies and gentlemen! For example, the zero deficit at all costs means that in three budget years many, namely 2 500 to 3 000 executives, are less available to maintain security in the villages and cities, that 120 army posts are closed, that 24 police guards are closed, that a number of Commissioners are closed, and that no new shots of police and gendarmes are made in this environment. – No, "no" is not true: In 1998 350 policemen were admitted to Vienna, in 1999 there were still 290, in 2000 then 40, and in 2001 there are also 40. For the year 2002, 40 are planned. There were always about 400 new shots in the Gendarmerie. In the year 2000, there were 144, in 2001, there are 20, and over the year 2002, we hear nothing good about what is happening to us. This is a scale with which not even the natural finish can be covered. This leads to an ageing of the corps, and this also leads to the democratization of the fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen! If, in such an environment, as is now the case, a central organisational unit or even a separate authority is created with 654 executive forces, which have been spoken in discussions of up to 900 women and men, this naturally leads to the sharing of a wealth of police officers or gendarmen as well as criminal officials from the cities, from the villages, from the countries of the central authority in the Federal Ministry of the Interior. This leads to the withdrawal of know-how from the regions. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Ministry for Public Performance and Sport has also clearly stated this by writing in its opinion: On the side of the BM for public performance and sport there are concerns against the draft federal law on the organisation of the criminal police from a personal economic point of view. This Kripo law not only brings in an additional level of hierarchy, thus extending the information and communication channels and the instance movement, but also increasing centralisation. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, in this situation, Mr Federal Minister, we have clearly told you in the negotiations, we must be prepared to stop the reduction of personnel and include additional security forces. [[Abg. Grossruck: And make new debts!]] In order to make it easier for you, ladies and gentlemen, to go this sensible way with us, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Another important point in the negotiations was the question of legal protection. With the establishment of the Federal Criminal Organization Unit and the simultaneous recast of § 14 para. 2 of the Security Police Act, comprehensive investigation, survey and related instructions are pooled in a central body of the BMI. As a result, new means of monitoring by the security authority are created, particularly in the area of advanced risk research. Ladies and gentlemen! A observation group with 150 people, equipped with all the technical possibilities for listening, for cutting videos and so on – here you simply have to be careful that these possibilities do not exploit in a way that threatens freedom! That is why we are in favour of creating a legal protection officer who is obliged to consent. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to make it easier for you to ensure legal protection for the Austrian population, we are tabling an amendment by Members Parnigoni, comrades and comrades. I should like to briefly present this proposal. It is important to ensure that the extended risk investigation requires the consent of the legal protection officer – except in a very special case of serious risk – that the security authorities are also obliged to inform the legal protection officer of the identification of personal data by means of hidden identification and by hidden use of image and sound recording equipment or by observations in the context of extended risk research. In order to achieve this, there are two constitutional provisions, namely, that the Legal Protection Officer shall report annually to the Subcommittee of the Internal Committee and, on the other hand, that the security authorities, when dealing with a task under § 21 para. 3 acts to seek the consent of the legal protection officer without delay. Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you to vote in favour of these two requests, and I should like to conclude by saying that: Mr Kiss has noted in the committee that the SPÖ is about power and influence in this law. I suppose even if he's gonna talk about me here, he'll say the same thing. I can call on an unwarranted witness, the former ÖVP countryman Alfred Worm, who is now working as a journalist at "NEWS". [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: He's not suspicious!]] He's titled a column by writing: "Post-Zieferei made by ÖVP." In what he says, he draws a close to the Ministry of the Interior. He is speaking to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there, but it is equally true for the Ministry of the Interior: This is a very bad place to be tricked. Post-shielding, as it stands in the party book. Minister! That's what you really want, and you can't get our consent!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19541	I declare that Mr Parnigoni's request, which has just been submitted in writing, is sufficiently supported and sufficiently relevant to the subject matter of negotiation, so that it can also be voted on for the negotiation or the subsequent vote. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19638	The same applies to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Parnigoni. It is also sufficiently supported, is sufficiently relevant to the matter of negotiation and therefore also to the negotiation or then to the vote. The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19663	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised that the SPÖ Security Speaker is not even able to recognise the importance of this day for the fight against crime in Austria. What socialist interior ministers haven't done for decades – as witnesses of the past twelve years, I can say: Löschnak, One, Schlögl were unable to do this despite great efforts, or they were not allowed to do it – Ernst Strasser manages in a few months. It is a historic day for security in this country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is likely that the BKA will become a safety-political quantum leap. In addition, from January 2002 onwards, it is known that this Federal Criminal Office will be included in the Ministry of the Interior, which will be included in the Directorate-General for Public Security, so that it can be assumed with the right – and with the right and the right to say it again and again – that: This BKA will create more security for Austria, and it will be worked by more motivated executive officials for the benefit of Austrian citizens! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It will end with the parallel actions we know. It'll end with the next-up investigations. But it will also end with all this – and this in the main book of the SPÖ, colleague Parnigoni – from which the SPÖ has created over the past decades, namely the Party-political occupation of offices, power and positions! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] We know what the real reason for rejecting this model of the Federal Criminal Office is: The socialists fear for their influence, for their power and thus for their positions. That's the true answer to that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Of course, it is clear that the legal protection officer will be proposed. [[Abg. Dietachmayr:... keep a mirror in front of him!]] [[Further calls and calls between SPÖ and ÖVP MPs.]] – Interestingly, when I talk, the socialists always stand on the benches within a short period of time. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] I don't understand why. [[Call the SPÖ:... talk so much stupid!]] Of course, it will probably be once again that I have hit the nail on the head, which SPÖ has caught at the most sore place, where, as especially in the Ministry of the Interior, it has obviously had no influence over decades to possess power and positions. [[Abg. Leikam: Your speeches really have a great entertainment value!]] That's a fact! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Leikam: The speeches of colleagues Kiss have great entertainment value!]] Polish could be said: The SPÖ wanted a red BKA. We, the Federal Government with Ernst Strasser, want a red and white-red BKA. [[Abg. Oils: Oh!]] It will also be a red-white-red BKA for the Austrian population! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can keep it as you want: If you don't have any arguments on the matter, you will find any excuses after bocksprungen, such as the subject of legal protection. The legal protection officer in the form of how we wrote him as a matter of course in the law during extended risk research would be at the BKA cockbleing. Anyone who deals with this matter and examines it very seriously will say that this is nothing but a forward-looking argument of the socialists to have and to be able to say an argumentative base: Njet, we're not with that! This is a purely Justament stand, because in reality it is that even all experts from SPÖ who have been involved in this sensitive matter attest to the following: It is important for this BKA to come; it is important that the criminal police service in the Ministry of the Interior experience structural reforms; it is important that all the possibilities of the criminal police service come together under the responsibility of a director with a staff department in the Directorate-General for Public Security. I admit that we would have preferred this to be an authority and the whole thing to become a constitutional one – of course! Only to this day we do not know what the reason for this is. I can only always assume that the SPÖ is afraid of its positions, that it is afraid that it will no longer be able to use its political considerations in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, which I believe are often demonstrated in the past. These are the real reasons why you reject this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Federal Minister! Our congratulations on this topic, our congratulations to the new Federal Criminal Office! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel:... the fifth commandment!]] The increase in the quality of the fight against crime will also increase the quality of the security of the population in Austria. [[Abg. Parnigoni: No one believes that!]] We will be happy to go this way, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19841	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e19862	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Miedl: Security spokesman Kogler?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Kogler, the universal genius!]] [[Call to the liberals: like Mr. Kier!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, Kier also has the infallibility...!]] Mr Kiss, that you are tossed here at such a jubilation, no one will really wonder. Perhaps it is more surprising to you now if we are of the opinion – and this one is also known here – that it is good that there is something like and should be a Federal Criminal Office. Secondly, I should like to say that this could lead to a reform of the fight against crime, which is also necessary. – I may be allowed to forward this; perhaps the callers will calm down a little. But on the matter itself: Why is it good that there is or there should be? – It is known to be about combating crime in a wide variety of forms, and this also belongs centrally merged, evaluated and, if you like, even controlled. We have no problem with that. I simply call the fields of issues concerning the new tasks of combating crime, such as environmental crime or increased economic crime and the fight against drug trafficking. It seems to me that the fight against money laundering is particularly important; Austria has so far not boasted. In this respect, we are constantly at the top of the list of evils next to Switzerland, and that, as I mean, is, unfortunately, right. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why, even if you do not want to be true, we are willing to take a few constructive steps here. It is about a reform in the fight against crime, and there can and should also be a central collection and control. But – third –: Implementation will require more reform than just installing one head that is necessary and that we will look at in the same way. This implementation of the reform also requires implementation at country level and, if you wish, even at a level below. But what happens there? – There are still some – especially controlled by black party book carriers! – enormous resistance to the re-forms. This goes back up to the heads of state. [[Abg. May. Tancsits: That's not true!]] You know that very well, Mr Federal Minister, even if you are working right now. You know that very well, and in fact... [[Abg. Miedl: Werner, this is a federal authority!]] Yeah, that's a federal authority now, I know that! But if you consider the reform work as a whole, you will not only be allowed to bring this aspect in, you will also have to bring it in. Mr. Miedl, you know very well that it's not the best place there. Perhaps you – and you should do so – will still express your opinion when it comes to various influences on these levels. We think that this is a problem. Federal Minister! It is a problem similar to the eternal announcement that police stations and gendarmerie stations or all the security authorities could be put together. We have already heard many large-scale announcements here – alone, the enforcement power is lacking. This is a different question, but the problem is a similar one. You will have to express yourself on how you want to achieve a comprehensive reform here and not just create your head again. We are now coming to the really exciting question of the debate. Mr Kiss has here again stressed the great science of colour teaching and overcoloring. If you think this is just about bringing out red and something else, and that's red-and-white-red, then I have to give you significant perceptive deficits in the spectral area. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] What announces itself here is, of course, the usual and now well-known recoloration on black and blue – this time certainly with more weight on black, although you are trying to discredit this, Federal Minister. I appreciate you for some of the initiatives you have taken, but on that point I do not believe that. I fear that if we look at this in a year, these forecasts will have proved true. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (in the direction of the Federal Minister of Government, Dr. Strasser) You can do what you want, Minister! The Greens will never want you!]] Let's get to the last and real point of criticism, to the main point of criticism. Mr Parnigoni did not want you to lose sight of his serious efforts to protect the law, so I will try again. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] A legally binding legal protection officer is therefore useful because, of course, new possibilities arise with the provision of observation, which is very well created here or is possible in this merged competence, which, as it were, must result in a corresponding protection of the persons in the custody. You won't deny that. And if all this is not a problem anyway, this legal protection officer will not be such a problem either. Why do I say all that? – You pretend that the whole thing would only have to do with the fight against crime. They refused to discuss the extent to which intelligence services were involved. [[Abg. Miedl: Not at all!]] "Not at all," says Mr Miedl, again – see, I don't need to be in committee for this, I know it like this: He says it again! The fact is, however, that we and our group have a paper available to us, a project called "Meilenstein Plan for the BKA – Federal Criminal Office project", which, in its intended business division – and I ask you to give an opinion on this point, Mr. Federal Minister – is the first one under the president's "station" under four points, which is called "interface to Group II/C". This is still in the ministry and something quite normal, very correct: BMLV. But now it comes: "... and the intelligence services"! – Mr Miedl, come. You're out and explain this to us! Mr Federal Minister, please make this clear. We believe that your credibility in your process and argumentation is very much at risk at those very points. That is why you must not be surprised if we are skeptical of this and document our rejection accordingly. You have argued quite differently in the committee, and you should at least make this clear now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20015	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20036	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, this new building block, within the Austrian security apparatus, is about completely new structures that are intended to be able to combat organised crime much more efficiently than the existing structures. It has been discussed for about a decade. x working groups have also been set up. Now we are putting this into practice in a very short time. Within a three-quarters of a year, the analysis was complete, and within the next three-quarters of the year the concepts were completed. And if we get the parliamentary mandate from you today, then we'll get these concepts from 1. In January 2002, it was possible to implement one over one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I see this building for reform work in the Austrian security system as pragmatically as in the reform of civil service, in the development of the gendarmerie structures, in the further development of police structures, in the outsourcing of flight rescue and in many other projects. The reform stand, which has been attacked in our House, urgently made it necessary for something to be changed here: after a detailed analysis, a precise project creation and commutable preparation, and in this case – if Parliament gives us the opportunity – the professional implementation that we want to ensure next year. The issue is that new forms of crime also need new forms of combating. This means, in particular, that we want to replace a whole series of complicated and inconspicuous reporting routes with a "single point of contact" that we want to transfer uncoordinated and inconsistencies and personnel into a coordinated control system, that we currently act in part in the fight against addiction, and in the future we need a simpler, faster system to improve the collection of central information in order to combat organized structures in a timely, rapid and efficient manner, that we want to replace a parallel investigation in the areas of economic crime and money laundering, which we now have, by means of a concentration of interregional, international economic police major procedures accordingly. After several months of advocating that a broad consensus in the National Council would be useful and favourable in a central point in the fight against Austrian crime in order to give our officials the appropriate back cover and to make it clear on the other hand to the Austrian public and to the Austrian population that combating crime is an overall concern of Parliament, I have to draw a sobering balance today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the basic issues of combating Austrian crime, the broad majority of Parliament should see things together and take them together. That is why I am all the more sorry that, after the Committee on the Interior, both the Social Democrats and the Greens are refusing this broad consensus for greater security in the fight against crime again here and today. This does not help us in our work, on the contrary, it hinders us in the implementation of the best possible structures we need. I should like to make a few points, first of all, about what was set out here by the SPÖ Security Officer. It is indeed tragic that a request is being made here again, which, if it were decided, would have to return the Ministry of the Interior to the way that has gone over the last five or ten years: to withdraw the officials from the outer offices to bring them into the headquarters. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you not to accept this request. We save in the administration so that we can serve on-site security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why it is simply not true that executive officials should be saved here, but it is our principle – and we have implemented it so far in a complete way – that we save in the administration so that we can continue to invest in local security. This means that we have passed on the reporting system. This means that we have saved more than 20 percent of our staff in the Gendarmerie Central Command and zero percent at the Gendarmerie Posts. That therefore means that we continue to work in the passport. This means, therefore, that we carry out a reorganisation in the Vienna Police Department, which in Vienna brings more than 100 offices on the street in addition. Finally, this means that we have just started the first course – three, four days ago – in which gendarmerie officials and police officers are sitting together on the school bench in order to ensure joint training in favour of Austrian security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Kogler! I can invite you to check out our money laundering office on an occasion. Maybe we can clear out what you have put out on this stage with the facts there. The reporting centre in Austria is one of the very few best-organized institutionalized money laundering agents. Representatives from other countries come to us to look at this system to study how to report suspicion moments directly to Kripo, and then immediately start things. The security partnerships we have concluded with our neighbouring countries show that we can also export this successful way of combating Austrian crime very well to our neighbours and work there together. I cordially invite you to look at this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If Mr Kogler calls for comprehensive reforms, then, ladies and gentlemen, we must say: Yes, we do; one to one. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (in the direction of Abg. May. Kogler) You should also vote!]] I tell you, we will gradually implement this step by step, just as I said before – i.e. analysis, concept and professional implementation – in the Austrian security device. The Federal Criminal Office is now available for decision. If this Federal Criminal Office is set up and working, we will have to deal with the next stages in the form of organisation, as the government programme intends. This will certainly go on, I can promise you as securely as the Amen in prayer if you should know this custom. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: This will be the replacement religion!]] To observe, I can very clearly say that this must be a factual error, because the fact is that – and this is not a valid, but simply a fact-finding – the powers of our employees in this area will not change by a millimeter. The powers, the duties and also the powers that an employee will have in the future Federal Criminal Office are similar to those of every general army and police officer. It is therefore not necessary and entirely in addition to requiring additional features here. This would mean that what you are calling for here should also apply to all Austrian Gendarmerie and Police officers. But thanks to God, you have not made this request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Overall, I would like to express what was set out today in the ORF homepage about this new Federal Criminal Office, and I can quote this because it is in the opinion of our house and is also my personal opinion – I quote today's ORF homepage –: In any case, the new BKA has now created a reorganisation, in which several ministers of the interior had already failed in front of Strasser. Ideally, the average citizen will not notice much of it, but the investigating police and gendarmen should be facilitated by everyday life. - Quote. That's exactly what the ORF meant, and that's exactly what the ORF did. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to thank Mr Kiss for his express congratulations, alone - I can say that clearly - I am not pleased. The congratulation applies to officials who are congratulating, in particular, the Director-General for Public Security, who, as project manager, has controlled this project from the first minute. Thank you very much also, Mr Beuchert, who will retire in these days, for which this is, so to speak, the conclusion of a decades-long career in the Austrian security system and which has taken over and perfectly organized this difficult task in the high professional age. And now in implementation, thanks also to Dr. Haidinger and his employees, who have made sure that organised crime can also be fought properly and modernly.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20146	The next speaker was Mr Reindl. The clock is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20199	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The all-rounding arm, the all-round politician, has been serving today. Always new forms of crime are emerging or are increasing very dramatically. It is quite simply not possible for the "simple" genearm or police officer to ensure order, peace and security in his area, to make a record, to carry out traffic monitoring and the like more, while at the same time combating organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking and the like. High house! It was high time to establish an establishment with specially trained personnel and equipment to be able to implement trans-regional measures to combat crime. ==References====External links== January 2002 is in line with the demands of the time, with the elimination of double-tracks, as the Federal Minister has already done. Existing structures, such as the criminal police, parts of the group of state police and the office for detection, criminal technology and detention, as well as the economic police of the Federal Police Directorate in Vienna, are usefully brought together, and it is achieved with the same – and this is very important – personnel and the same financial resources. Ladies and gentlemen! For us general army officials, the following is very important: In the future, there will be no lawyers for the criminal service with the district authorities, i.e. with the district headquarters. That is to say, the official, the official of the Gendarmerie, continues to contact the prosecutor directly, for example. High house! The Federal Criminal Office, in the form that will be decided today in this House, is on good feet, but could still be much better founded if the law were to be passed by a two-thirds majority and thus install an authority. [[Abg. Gaál: It's on tones!]] This would be very important, Mr Leikam, because the Federal Criminal Office in the form of an authority would have more self responsibility and could also react faster and more efficiently. Unfortunately, this constitutional provision does not come about because the two opposition parties, SPÖ and Greens, once again act as a united party and refuse to agree to it. This is nothing more than the continuation of the Red and Green blockade policy, as it has already been pre-examinationed in the vote on the Security and Defence Doctrine. High house! The security spokesman of the Social Democrats, Mr. Parnigoni – he is currently not in the plenary session – said in his press release of 4. In December 2001, 229 executives from the countries, cities and municipalities would be removed from the Federal Criminal Office and there would be a bloating of a central office. He meant that this was a reason not to accept this law. . I also think that what he has done today in his contribution to the debate, namely the legal protection officer, is also a simple pretext. Mr Parnigoni von der SPÖ probably did not read the minutes of Mr Dr. Riess-Passer and Mr Strasser. Protocol note 72/25 clearly states, among other things, black on white: Existing structures are summarized, the staffing status is not extended. [[Abg. Leikam: That's the problem!]] – So no bloating as claimed! It also states that a permanent use of security directorates, federal police directors, regional and district army commanders, gender army posts and other organisational units carrying out the classical executive service is excluded. High house! The reasons given by the Socialists to reject this law in the form presented are very transparent. The real reason for the rejection is that the Social Democrats no longer have the party political influence they have had in the Federal Criminal Office for Human Resources for 30 years.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20256	The next speaker is Mr Leikam. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20299	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Rejoicing among the blacks and blues in the National Council, Katzenjammer and outrage at this new BKA and the reforms of the Interior Minister across all parties and all Austrian states, I would like to overtitle this debate today. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Protests, signature actions in all major cities, in all countries, with prominent ÖVPs at the forefront. No one will claim that Georg Wurmitzer is a redr – he is the national party observer of the ÖVP in Carinthia. No one will claim that the Klagenfurt mayor is a redr. They all sign resolutions against this Minister of the Interior because they do not agree with his reforms, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Sign them because they don't know them!]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: They have been misinformed!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! You are right in so far as you have said in your speech message that you are creating completely new structures with this BKA. That's right: They create completely new structures. They have complained that the basic consensus has not been reached on such an important security policy issue as this BKA. . But what you have presented to us here, Mr Federal Minister, the Socialist Group cannot agree with. [[Abg. Kiss: No, no!]] What you have put forward here could have been very easy for every Social Democratic minister to present. But we wanted to do something reasonable and not such a Murks, my Ladies and gentlemen, how you put him on the table today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the negotiations, we have really tried to create a BKA that makes sense, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Miedl: What did you want?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But what the Federal Minister and what the government is presenting to Parliament today is a centralist-led moloch, Minister of State! And the SPÖ, which I say very clearly to you, certainly does not stand for a bloating of central authorities at the expense of security in our country, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Miedl: You didn't understand!]] Security, ladies and gentlemen, is not guaranteed in the central offices, but in the streets, the markets and the cities of our country! There the security is practised – and not in the central offices! [[Abg. Miedl: You don't understand!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, they only need to read more precisely the review. [[Abg. Miedl: You have no idea!]] When the Federal Minister sent this law, there was a proper criticism of this draft, and that was right! Mr Parnigoni pointed out that some 250 of the 654 plantations listed in this BKA are withdrawn from the so-called area, i.e. from where the officials are serving. Although part of it takes part in the task in the BKA, there are still 140 officials who are deducted from other tasks to be made available to the BKA. [[Abg. Kiss: Reindl has disproved this! You didn't take care of that!]] This is exactly this centralistic procedure that we do not want. We want to have security in the villages, in the cities of our country, and not a moloch, as Mr. Bundesminister Strasser creates here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not know how some members of the ÖVP who have already expressed themselves in this law today come to explain that there was great satisfaction and approval in the country with regard to this BKA, Mr Kößl! [[Call the ÖVP: That's right!]] 83 per cent of the criminal officers surveyed reject your draft, Mr Kößl! 83 percent reject this draft! [[Call the ÖVP:Notice you!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] How do you come to such a claim, Mr Kößl? This is simply the untruth you have announced today in your press release! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why Mr Reindl so enthusiastically agrees with this law, I do not know. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] The Minister did not even listen to him in his opinion. It is therefore inexplicable to me, but that must be the responsibility of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I cannot imagine that it is entirely in your sense what the Minister has brought in here. It is likely that coalition discipline will have been more effective than the content of this law, Mr Reindl. Ladies and gentlemen! What should happen, for example, with observation – I go to this one point again, because time does not allow to get too far to this law. [[Abg. Miedl: This is the best proof of this!]] Only the absence of observation groups in the countries, did you at least explain it to us in the Committee, Mr. Federal Minister, and the summary of these observation groups in the BKA, at the central level, and then the division into four locations in Austria, which are "at random" identical to the locations of your so-called "cobra new" – that is not a very large coincidence either – are missing precisely these observation groups in the countries. And I tell you here, Mr Federal Minister, I do not think that you could reach the view that with your "Cobra new" you can create this with your observation groups at these locations if you knew the situation in the countries better. In Carinthia, and I say this quite openly to you, there is massive resistance in the absence of the MEKs and the SEKs, and there are also the signature actions, in which also prominent ÖVPler is fully involved. Some time ago, and you mentioned this earlier, you also gave away the rescue from the Ministry of the Interior, but now you say that you will be from these four locations in about 70 minutes at each site. – I repeat: 70 minutes, 70 minutes long, Minister of State, if these units are urgently needed there! For 70 long minutes, people will have to wait until a unit of these four central locations will have flown to other federal states. And what will you do, Minister of State, if a situation occurs, as it is currently in Carinthia? The flight rescue helicopters of the ÖAMTC and those of the Red Cross are moved to Spittal, to Ebene Reichenau, out of the fog zone because, if they want to get hurt from the mountains, they often cannot start in Klagenfurt. What's going to be Then do you do with your units that should fly to Carinthia when the others, stationed in Carinthia, can't fly any more? They pose a security-political risk, Mr. Federal Minister, which is simply not explainable to me. I don't know who advised you. You have certainly not been advised in this matter. Again: This BKA is not progress, Mr Kiss, and it is not this "century law" that you have spoken about in the Committee. It is a regulation that does not have much content, but will result in security in the countries no longer being the one we have at present and the way in which they have left you Social Democratic Ministers of the Interior, Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20529	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20550	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have now failed a little bit, Mr Leikam. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] I now know that there is country crime and federal crime after SPÖ interpretation. I must tell you, however, that you have not learned the federal constitution, because one thing is quite clear in it, Mr Leikam, that crime and the fight against crime are federal and can never be national. [[Abg. Leikam: If you can start in the fog-free zone!]] Now I am telling you something, Mr Leikam, because this is the babylonian language confusion that you are doing. You confuse the apples with the pears, and I'm not surprised that you've been replaced as a security spokesman. You have no idea, colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Mr Leikam! We two will be happy to make a Tête-à-tête in the back, and I will inform you about the security policy. I'll tell you something. For this act of the Federal Minister for the Interior, we will all be very grateful to each other once again. Something your ministers have slept for a long time or where they have not trusted, that has become a reality now, ladies and gentlemen! And I am not talking about organised crime now, because it is a general standard across Europe that the fight against organised crime, such as money laundering, arms trafficking, car scrapping, trafficking in girls and, of course, addiction crime, must be carried out by a competent central body. I am not talking about that at all, Mr Leikam. But what I would like to talk about is an official act that took place in 1993. Her minister, Lösnak, was then the minister of the Interior. Mr Leikam, you were the security spokesperson at the time. – Listen to me, I listened very attentively to you! [[Abg. Leikam: No, you don't!]] ==References====External links== In November, a collapse took place in a Gendarmerie post. Four service weapons and a machine gun were removed. The uncoordinated action of the security authorities led to a tragic death case that could have been prevented. That's not what Mr Leikam is interested in. And these, ladies and gentlemen, were the logical consequence in Parliament as well. It was debated here, and Mr Pirker said at the time that the causes of these shortcomings are actually within the system and not with those who act. Ladies and gentlemen! In the search for today's discussion, I dug out an old article from the "profile" in which the following is quoted: "And again, criticism will not follow any real changes, because the executive itself does not have the power to undergo a proper reorganisation" – and politics is too cowardly to carry out reorganisations by itself. "The staff representatives want to be elected again", and the trade union is always far too cowardly to tackle this hot iron. – Werner Miedl, my name is below. I said that at the time, and I have already called for comprehensive reorganisations from the Federal Minister at that time. But they didn't come. Ladies and gentlemen! What we as security professionals can be proud of today is that there is a minister who does not have it easy with God, who naturally blows resistance in the face from then or there, because it is nowhere easy and easy to make and accept changes, but we enforce it in the interests of security, Mr. Leikam. And I would already think that it would be beneficial for a state-bearing party like SPÖ to consider what is necessary, what is to be done in the sense of security, and not to play out national security against federal security. I have never heard such a stupid argument in my life, my colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Mr President, excuse me, I take the word "thump" back, but it was an argument that is so bleak that I have to say, I do not understand the world. Mr Leikam was the security spokesperson of his party for a long time, and I cannot understand which devil is now riding him. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ is based on a rejection of centralism. It is precisely the SPÖ that rejects centralism, but everyone knows, Mr. Col., that you know that the use of one command station as far as possible has to be carried out. Wherever more than one bet leads, history goes into the pants! [[Abg. Leikam: Not in any case!]] Consider the Federal Criminal Office as such a leading and coordinating body so that such stories no longer go into pants. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The BKA directly will coordinate all of this?]] Second argument: They have criticized the transfer of personnel to the BKA. With the staff, however, the tasks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Your light shines you!]] So that's not what you say. And on the third and last, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ: It is true that, of course, the legal protection officer, as you are referring to, has long since become active in any of these laws that are applicable. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Your end is coming! You're enlightened! The red light shines!]] In reality, what you demand and demand is just an argument that you do not need to vote. It is a poverty certificate for the SPÖ not to vote in such a law that is so important for security in Austria. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20702	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20724	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We've heard it today, and it's actually true: Austria is still one of the safest countries in Europe. The same applies to Vienna. But, Mr Federal Minister, it is of course also a great merit to your predecessors. They are trying to continue their course, but we believe that he is not in nuances and in detail the one we are imagining. But we also want security to remain in Austria and, of course, in Vienna as in the past. This, of course, requires adjustments, further developments, and therefore, Mr Federal Minister, we have nothing from the principle against meaningful reforms and changes and nothing against the prevention of double-tracking. We Socialists are standing, and that has already been stressed by my esteemed speakers, for better and safer conditions. We stand for efficiency and credibility, especially when it comes to executives. Therefore, Mr Federal Minister, we take very seriously the very reasoned objections of the trade unions and the staff representation, whether they come from the Central Committee of the General Service, the Federal Security Council, the Gendarmerie or the Police Administration. All of them, and this has already been said today, are negatively opposed to the establishment of a Federal Criminal Office. You have to look at this in detail, of course, and you can discover similarities there and there, but from the principle I personally understand the objections, because in my opinion, Federal Minister, it would have been more sensible to first conclude the criminal procedure order, i.e. the StPO reform, and to create the corresponding criminal service law. All of us together are concerned with the independence of the criminal police. And if, in the reasoning of reform measures, one repeatedly speaks of expediency, sparingness, cost-saving and frenzy, then I see nowhere in this draft law approaches to it. The Bundesgendarmerie and the security guard also argue equally. Instead of abolishing or flattening hierarchies, deal with a no longer modern procedure, their accusation is. Rather, the opposite of a modern administration is generated. Federal Minister! With the creation of the Federal Criminal Office, they draw up additional hierarchies of decision, which ultimately extends the information, communication and the way of instance. Of course, this is what many Federal Offices see. The Federal Ministry of Public Performance and Sport also reports personnel concerns, and this is probably not a social democratic institution. Federal Minister! I do not want to mention all the objections of the Federal Offices, they are all legitimate objections to the opinion of the Court of Auditors, which I would like to take very seriously, and which repeatedly points to the cost-neutral nature of this project. – All these objections, as far as I know the facts, were not taken into account. If it were different, I would look forward to a correction. Federal Minister! All our conceptual proposals, justified demands and objections were not taken into account. You just slowed us down. I believe that if we had more time, something very meaningful and important would have been created, because we would also demand and welcome, even as far as the criminal service is concerned, a very efficient institution at the federal level, only to take quite different steps in detail. We know, and this has already been said today, that officials for the Federal Criminal Office are being recruited by the countries, about 100 officials from Vienna. The tasks cannot be taken over by the officials, and therefore, Mr Federal Minister, I think that we should consider and consider this in concrete terms and in detail, because already today 750 officials are missing in the guard rooms in Vienna. There's hardly any new shots. My knowledge is now 40 officials, but that's too little. Federal Minister! You have the order to do so, and you would also rule quite differently because you know the security situation, but you had to subordinate everything to the zero deficit. These rigorous savings measures by the Federal Government, Mr. Federal Minister, endanger security in Austria and Vienna. Therefore, this security policy path cannot be more common, if I am sorry, it does not agree with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20781	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20799	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thankfully, Mr Gaál, you have explained that you stand for efficiency. As a result, I believe that you will agree to this law. Ladies and gentlemen! A Federal Criminal Office will be set up next year for the purpose of effectively combating domestic criminal offences, but also for the performance of central functions in the field of international police cooperation. This is another important step in the renewal of security at all. The government of FPÖ and ÖVP is going in this respect in a clearly recognizable, predictable direction, as is the case with the Security Doctor, whom we have already decided today. The security doctor, whom you have called too narrow, also deals with internal security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] It states that the objective must be to combat international terrorism, in particular by intensifying national cooperation, bilateral and multilateral cooperation and within the framework of the EU. The fight against organised crime in all its forms – trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings, trafficking in arms and drugs, money laundering and cetera – must take place both within the country and through international cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen! These goals should be goals of all of us! And that you, from the SPÖ, do not agree with this law today, I can only see as a restraint because you can no longer switch and operate in the field of the Ministry of the Interior as you were used to.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20844	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20862	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For me, in this case, it is not the question of why the BKA is still being negotiated, because we see that positively, but why there has been, or still exists, any further considerations regarding the country criminal offices or even district criminal offices that are not yet out of the table. [[Abg. Kiss: It's really incredible what's going to be said!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The tasks of the security police, i.e. the criminal police, are currently exclusively carried out by the guards of the Federal Army, the Federal Police, the Corps of Criminal Officials, and not least by individual municipal guards. That was very well regulated, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to draw attention to a model case in my own home town Amstetten: This is a city with 24,000 inhabitants and a strong surrounding area. The Federal Army has 25 officials there, eight of whom belong to a criminal service group, and there is also a municipal guard body with seven officials. Ladies and gentlemen! Like the people everywhere in Austria, we can also say with satisfaction that we live in a safe city. The combination of forces works perfectly: It is not only the number of crimes due to good prophylaxis that are relatively low, but it is also possible to talk about a high level of information that keeps international comparisons loose. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Not least, the criminal group I've quoted is doing excellent work. This group has proved to be a great success in all these years, and it has worked particularly in cooperation with the uniformed forces. The reasons for this are very informative: All belong to the same guard body, under the same command structure, are at the latest state of the investigations, and the officials of the criminal group have performed long enough uniform service and therefore keep uniformed officials up to date. The efficiency of this decades-long practice must be demonstrated by tangible successes. The criminal group officials also serve in uniforms on a case-by-case basis, which is also a very special advantage because they do not lose personal contact with the civil servants and are constantly collecting insights in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! The entire service is in the building of the Gendarmeriepostenkommando, and this is also an advantage, because there are no separate cost points for building maintenance, rental and so on. These synergies are also a very important factor. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Gaál has already quoted the Court of Auditors. The rejection of my group's position on the Government's document 806 of the Supplements is probably not least to be looked at here. The Court of Auditors, of course, has dealt with the cost level in particular and has highlighted the cost neutrality which is not comprehensible. It criticises this as well as the recovery of another hierarchical level, coupled with higher personnel costs, and it also notes – which is not insignificant – that the cost structure does not take into account the restructuring costs for the entire redesign. In point two of its opinion, the Court of Auditors expressed considerable concerns as regards constitutional conformity with the law applicable to the subordinate departments, such as Security Directorates, Federal Police Directorates, District Administration Authorities and so on. – We can fully support this, and I am particularly surprised that the Heads of State do not act differently in view of that. Furthermore, point three states that efficient performance of tasks will be severely affected by the division of competences. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are happy to endorse the recommendation made in the Court of Auditors' report under point four of this opinion on the need for the BKA. We also believe that the BKA is well withdrawn on the basis of the current Group II/d in the organisational association of the central bodies. Ladies and gentlemen! By the way, my own question is: Why should significant changes in the Austrian security system be made when it is one of the best in the world? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] As I said, We agree with a BKA, but we cannot understand all that goes beyond that. We confess to our traditional, over a hundred-year-old guard body Gendarmerie and Security Police! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20906	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e20966	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Criminal organizations do not stop at national borders. They operate internationally, and their structures are increasingly difficult to understand, which is a reason for me to support the establishment of the Federal Criminal Office from my heart! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] ==References== September has shown us more than clearly the dangers posed by criminal, terrorist and radical organizations. They are incalculable, and you can't usually foresee their actions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] The Federal Criminal Office project is the largest reform of the criminal police in the Second Republic. Important data will be collected and analysed, and it will be used in the event of danger. The Federal Criminal Office is creating new powerful and modern structures that enable us to fight organised crime more effectively internationally. Through the international cooperation of the Federal Criminal Office with other services, cross-border cooperation is ensured in the case of search and information exchange. Our Federal Government, ahead of Federal Minister Strasser, has recognized the signs of time. That is why we are now taking the right steps to protect our people. For me, the establishment of the Federal Criminal Office is an important milestone in security policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This will make a significant contribution to the fight against crime without additional human resources being used. Despite intensive negotiations with the Social Democrats, they were unfortunately not willing to go this forward-looking path with us. The discussion about the Federal Criminal Office is already ten years old. Federal Minister Strasser has managed to create a good concept with experts and officials within ten months. On the basis of a Constitutional Decision, this new authority could have reacted even faster and more efficiently, but this has failed to reach the agreement of the SPÖ and the Greens. [[Abg. Eder: That would fit you!]] Polemik is obviously more important to you than serious security policy! I appreciate Mr Leikam and also Mr Gaál. I have always estimated them to be very serious security politicians. However, what they offered here today was for me – I'm sorry! – a cramp. The SPÖ today shows with its behaviour that it has resigned from security policy in Austria. They were just about posts in the negotiations. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's right!]] Nevertheless, I believe that it is positive that this government has succeeded in creating this Federal Criminal Office. This, as I mean, is a very big throw, because it avoids a lot of double-tracks. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I trust Mr Strasser, for his previous reforms have shown that his changes have led to more security in Austria, and this is very positive. Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to point out that there is a concept in our region that joint controls of the Upper Austrian and Bavarian army officials are carried out along the border. This has proved to be a hundred percent good! The success of the campaign and the security in the border area have increased significantly, and I would like to ask you, Minister of State, that this project will continue in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21041	Mrs Perfuss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21070	Mr President. Federal Minister! That was a real Hurra to the Federal Minister. I hope you heard that. If you have such friends, it can only be warm around your heart! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Ellwall.]] All right, all right, all Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say it today: Our executive officials are subject to very, very high requirements, for example, that they have personal integrity, which is not easy. In the country – I come from the country – they must also be a model. They are, as it were, public persons or an institution. They are dealing with a very difficult clientele, so they must act highly professionally, and personal circumstances or even prejudices must be suppressed as much as possible. As legislators, we often and gladly decide laws, but should always remember that officials not only know and understand them but also have to execute them. These people often do not have the most modern technical equipment available so that they can really fulfil their job efficiently, they are overtime heavy and often get to the edge of their performance limit. This is often reported to me – and, as I believe, to you as well. They often do their work unthankfully from society, from the citizens, but also from us politicians, because these guardians have a control function, and this of course makes little sympathy and popularity. I would like to start from this point of view and because Christmas is soon, thank you very much to the executives! [[We welcome the SPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Free Trade Unions.]] However, because we know how narrow the space of personnel in the countries and in the districts is, we are against this form of the Federal Criminal Office. My colleagues, Mr Leikam and Mr Parnigoni, have already explained this excellently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Friend.]] I don't need to say anything more. [[Abg. Kiss: Ludmilla, will you be warm for your heart?]] Federal Minister Strasser! I call on you not to withdraw the plans for the Federal Criminal Office from the countries! The staff is already at the limit. Federal Minister! If you don't believe us, Mr. Parnigoni, Mr. Leikam and me, then ask your party friends! Your Internal Committee interlocutors have called for more staff for the Burgenland in your predecessor – we have all done so in the ear – word-rich, capable and emotional, as well as today. [[Abg. Kiss: 500 it was! The truth must be done enough!]] Can you remember? Your party friend, my colleague from the South Styria, has not only let the media know that everything will collapse if there is no staff in Leibnitz. – Now he's not even here, and I don't even hear anything from him. Ladies and gentlemen! What's that supposed to be about? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] It is known to all of us – including Mr Kiss – that the tasks of our executives have increased and the demands and expectations of our executives have increased. The burden has thus increased. But to the same extent as the burden increases, the average age also increases due to your personnel policy. Federal Minister! In my constituency and hometown of Germany, the average age is 42 years. Officers over 50 need to perform strip service, and you all know: With over 50 and tired bones you are no longer a Sprinter. But these officials should actually be sprinters, ladies and gentlemen! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kiss.]] Mr Strasser, I have listened very well to you. The reality outside of the executive officials is diametrically opposed to your statements. The price of your policy is that there is no prospect of young colleagues, and that is fatal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I do not assume that this problem is completely unknown to you. They are, as I suppose, Catholic and will therefore very often have to frequent the confessional. I cannot say now that what you say is not true, therefore I say: It's just another reality! – Under-retirement and the mentioned age structure are not guarantees of security in Austria! Federal Minister! To conclude: Please do not bow to the myth of saving your Minister of Finance and by Dr. Riess-Passer! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Go ahead! Do the right thing for red-white-red security! Take care of more young staff! Political professionalism would be to do the right thing at the right time! And this is precisely what we are talking about now in connection with the Federal Criminal Office!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21176	The next speaker is Mr Egghart. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21197	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is probably beyond any discussion that terror and organised crime in Austria must be fought more strongly. I think we all agree on this. The BKA project is certainly a key element in the fight against organised crime. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why do you say "Project BKA"?]] The aim is to make the fight against the brutal international gangs even more efficient, especially in the areas of drug trafficking, tow and car sliding. In recent months, a number of major security measures have been taken. I can list: new electronic search methods, advanced risk research, establishment regulation, procurement, security academy, a new seasonal status, the central reporting register and the change in the gender army post structure. Today we will decide on the Federal Criminal Office. And there are other crucial and very essential projects in this Federal Government: There will be a reform of the state police, and the Adonis system will lead to improved communication of rescue operations. I would also like to refer to the reform of the right of asylum, the aggregation of procedures under foreign and foreign law, the integration agreement and the fight against phenomena. Ladies and gentlemen! If one sees this framework created by the new Federal Government, one had to be slightly surprised by the speech by our colleague, Mr Leikam, when one knows his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/s/her/her/her/her/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s)/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s)/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s) Mr Leikam! I mean, the really huge adrenaline emission from you was artificially produced today! I have the slight suspicion that what has already been suggested today is very true, because the loss of power at the SPÖ is not so easy to take. We have often negotiated enough, and everything has been done to achieve an agreement. You know very well that we met twice for negotiations in the Committee on the Interior, in which we could actually expect a commitment from the SPÖ. But it didn't come to that. As regards legal protection officers, this will be regulated afterwards. But no one dealing with security policy can really assume that we can allow accompanying or advance control of such actions. In this context, you have to ask yourself: Does the SPÖ want a modern crime fight or not? - Dear friends of the SPÖ! Why Impoverished You, for example, the easy drugs? It would really be time for the youth organisations – we talked about it several times in the last National Council meetings – to finally distance themselves from it! I believe that after the ten-year attempt to create a BKA that has failed, we will certainly find the right solution today. The BKA is a safety-political quantum leap! There are nails made with heads! Ladies and gentlemen! A very slim organization could be set up. Instead of originally seven departments, there are only more than six. We have succeeded in dealing with the central posts, and we will not bloat the service plan. Today, it was mentioned that money laundering is not being combated in Austria. – You really have to reject that with all the emphasis! In this area, a great deal has recently been done, especially among the current Federal Minister. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What happened?]] Mr Kogler! You should not confuse this place with a laundry room with miele washing machines!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21248	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21267	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, Austria is one of the safest countries in the world! We look forward to this, and we are proud of it. For the most part, we owe this to our colleagues from the Austrian executive. However, I believe that we must allow them to do so, so that they can do their very heavy service under decent conditions, in the interests of the Austrian population. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my thanks to my colleague. I think we should all thank the colleagues of the Austrian executive, but also those of the security administration once in all public! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! The question is not whether we have a BKA, but under what conditions this BKA is created. I am curious about what many colleagues here in the House will say about the reactions outside. Outside the federal states – and I send immediately ahead: not only is it red, but it is so far beyond all party borders; I do not need to quote any leaves now – there is not a lot of happy expectation regarding this law on decision-making here today! In view of the review, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: They all come from the various regions, municipalities and cities. For whom is politics made? For us here or for the people out there? – There is no one out there having a joy with this law! Therefore, there have been such massive objections in the review process. Where, then, are those who always talk about the highly praised social partnership? – No one will now agree with me that there are in the staff representation bodies sitting with you or in all four affected areas plus security management of loud red! But they are all against it, across all party borders, ladies and gentlemen! And they are not against it because they want to be against it, but because they are professionals who really deal with the contents. For example, Mr Leikam said today that the helicopter cannot land. – I invite everyone to come to some districts, and it is enough if I stay now with the beautiful state of Lower Austria. It is not long ago, by the way, that you wanted hundreds of additional gendarmen for Lower Austria and also for the Burgenland. We couldn't have received so many gendarmen, and we wouldn't have needed them all today! In any case, there are districts in which a patrol needs from one end of the village to another one and a half hours. It's all supposed to be no problem because we have more people on the street. However, I do not know where these are, Mr Minister! The fact is that the staff stand is falling, and there you can clear out the entire administration and privatize the rest according to possibilities, you will still no longer get executive officers out! Mr Gaál said the right thing. We have a family of 750 men or women in Vienna. Let's take 40 now. That's what everyone says: Bravo, let's take it! – And if you – and now we don’t need to debate whether it’s 100, 110 or 95 – subtracte a scale such as these from the KRB for other tasks, at this level – I’m not talking about SW, because there’s the same game – I’ll look at who’s doing the job then! Dear colleague Kößl! All skills and tasks do not travel with you! It also remains a lot of work where it is now located, with in turn fewer people. To consider all this, I think you should really take time. That would have been possible, Minister. But I know, it's a problem of this coalition that you're going to lock up from the beginning and say: There are no people, and there is no money! – Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians, however, know this! And we Social Democrats are on the side of the Austrians and also of the Austrians. That is why we do not agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21338	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21356	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Organized crime knows no borders or taboos. Criminal machinations of organized gangs pose a high risk to the security of our society as well as our economic order. I am therefore delighted today that the establishment and organisation of the Federal Criminal Office will set a milestone in the fight against crime. With new, powerful and modern structures we will become 1. Years of the new year of organised crime can be more efficient both inside and outside. Internal Minister Ernst Strasser and his officials have succeeded in creating a streamlined organisational unit with specially trained personnel and relevant resources. The resources are bundled so that we can claim the fight more quickly and efficiently in organised crime. Synergies must be used, forces concentrated and resources pooled. New structures and possibilities for cooperation in combating crime are needed against new forms of crime. The Federal Criminal Office, with its structures and experts, will ensure that the field of activity for organized gangs in Austria is increasingly narrowed. The new BKA reduces double-tracks in the fight against crime, which has now dragged or at least delayed many procedures. The aim is to prevent double-tracks in investigation cases, to optimize information channels and to build up a two-way communication. This is one of the major improvements that the Federal Criminal Office will bring us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Single Point of Contact creates a professional contact point for all criminal services at the federal level. If a large number of observation units have so far left the physical and personnel pool uncoordinated and uneconomically appear, then in the future official acts will be coordinated and run together in one place. However, the Federal Criminal Office is not only active as an investigative authority, but also primarily as a service provider for regional authorities. The collection and evaluation of crime data from domestic and foreign sources and the transfer to the operationally active local security authorities present a major challenge for the newly structured BKA. However, we are faced not only with new challenges in the fight against crime, but also with prevention, because if we know what criminal gangs or people are planning, then our security authorities can intervene faster and more efficiently. All in all, it is about the protection and security of our people. The tragic terrorist events of the 11th century. On September 1st, everyone considered that international as well as regional cooperation was necessary or essential. The Austrians should continue to feel secure in our country. With the new Federal Criminal Office, this security will continue to be ensured and made much more efficient.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21411	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21432	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to say that I have known Mr Toni Leikam for a very long time. We are in Parliament for almost the same time. He's always been an excellent safety professional. Mr Miedl, you don't necessarily need to be a gendarm or a police officer to understand something about security. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why did you replace him as a security spokesman?]] For example, you can also be a judge to be an expert. Above all, I would like to say one thing, Mr Miedl: So well I know Toni Leikam that I know what he will not do with you, that's a Tête-à-tête! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You probably meant a private body. But Toni is certainly not available for a Tête-à-tête. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: How do you know that?]] [[Abg. Leikam: You're right!]] [[Further calls and cheerfulness.]] But back to BKA. Federal Minister! They have repeatedly talked about analysis, concept and implementation. Surely you have a tremendous strength in the implementation, but in the analysis I have my doubts. I come from one of your favorite districts – you like to stay at the Attersee – namely from the Vöcklabruck district. There has recently been a security survey, where we have been informed that there are 198 officials in this district, of which only 69 percent are currently available in truth. Why are only 69 percent available? - Because we have people at the GEC, at the special input groups and at the music. We have on the posts dog guides, alpine arms and specialists like trace-proofers and so on. This has also proved successful, but these specialists are, of course, continually deducted and are not available for everyday use. Federal Minister! If I look at your concept for the Federal Criminal Office, which is perhaps quite right in the fundamental trend, then I see you just pull people out of the area again. Mr Minister, it is not true that you only save jobs in the administration! They are proven to also save posts in the area. At the Security Survey, we were told honestly by the District Army Commander that 44 officials should be saved from the posts in Upper Austria in 2002 alone. So it's not true – and that's fairy tale number one – that only the administration is slendered. Mr Minister, that is not true; apart from the fact that you are delegating administrative tasks to the municipalities and to the cities, which in turn have to take up staff. This means that the actions are also at the expense of the communities in your area. There it is burdened, and there the money is still consumed. I would also like to clean up with a second fairy tale, which is presented again and again – also in the Upper Austrian country day –: At Löschnak there were a lot more posts that were saved. [[Abg. May. Tancsits: That's right!]] – Mr Minister, yes, that is true! But the difference is – and you know that very well, Mr Kößl – that the two- and three-man posts were. In my district, for example, there was no such thing, and there was no one saved there. Efficiency has increased. Today we have twice as many armed strips on the streets in the district even at night. And the 1,000 posts were newly created! In 1998 alone in the Vöcklabruck district, I obtained ten posts. But now we're closing the posts, and then we'll pull people off. Again, Minister of State: Implementation – maybe; but with regard to concept and analysis, I have problems with it. Unfortunately, I don't have enough speaking time, otherwise I could talk a lot about it, Minister, that, in my view, you are really not a Minister of Reform, but at most a master of painters. You probably learned this in Lower Austria: the overcoloring of red or red-white-red in black and black. So it is also in the newspapers, there is rereadable by examples of how this works. The blues do not come to the train in the area anyway, which is made perfectly monocolor black. I don't wonder. They have learned this as Upper Austria in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Kiss: That's incredible...!]] This has also shown the last election of staff, Mr Kiss: 100 percent ÖAAB, 19 mandates for the ÖAAB in the country! But that's clear, because up to the cleaning woman, "objective" is set only by someone who's with the blacks. But what you have in Lower Austria is only 45 percent. [[Abg. Grossruck: What's with the railway?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The railways, of course, defend themselves. They know who represents their interests. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] It is true that the liberals have also lost there. It's just something different if you're going to be credible for the people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! I have already addressed the Vöcklabruck district, and your people have today stressed the climate of conversation so strongly. In the Vöcklabruck district, you got over it! Tag Regau: a black mayor. I haven't heard much from you yet that you didn't mean that. But also a very credible FPÖ countryman, who is a district obmann there, namely colleague Kroismayr, confirms: Like the school boys, they've been finished there. This is the problem, Minister. During the closures under Löschnak, the district army commanders and local commanders spoke together. Now it's dictated! The district army commanders had nothing to say about, the post closures were available on the desk, and in part one cannot understand this. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That was the same thing under Löschnak!]] There were nine people in Regau. Federal Minister! It would interest me very much – because I almost can't believe you were giving birth in this way – what really was going on in Regau. This is also interesting for the liberals, because one of their countrymen was also affected. Or this one lies – which I do not accept; Liberties don't do that. [[Demonstratative condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Bravo, Peter!]] It would therefore be interesting to hear from you, Mr Federal Minister, what has happened there.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21618	Mr Kößl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21639	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleague, I think you're really completely misinformed, because: It is precisely the opposite that has happened this time in the merger of the Gendarmerie Departments, which took place together with the State Army Command and the District Army Command. The respective Gendarmerie department was called by the Federal Commandant and by the State Army Commander, which has been reported up to the Ministry, and there it has been carried out. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I know you're being extremely hard not to agree to this law today. There are no reasonable arguments for not accepting this law. Mr Gaál has said – and this has hit me – that the SPÖ has been slowed down. To this end, I would like to say that the Committee meetings have been cancelled and postponed twice in order to conduct further discussions. It is therefore not possible to talk about a brake. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Leikam! If there are signature actions outside – I would like to say this clearly and clearly from this point of view – then people are misinformed. I hope they haven't been misinformed by you! I believe it is reasonable to create a national coordination body in the field of executives in order to be able to effectively combat crime. [[Abg. Leikam: Wurmitzer and Mayor...!]] That's why I have to say: Let's stick to the subject matter! You're really hard today, that's what the arguments about a "listening of the observation apparatus" are showing, as they said in an broadcast. It is quite clear that there are already about 15 organizational units of the executive who carry out observations. If you bring them together in a observation unit in the BKA, I think that really means a large pool of forces in the executive area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If it is now repeatedly called upon to set up a legal protection officer or even to open a legal protection institution at all, it is really a sign of ambiguity that such a thing is required. On the one hand, you say: Yes, I agree with a BKA, but it must be slim, and on the other hand, you try to blow up the bureaucracy. One thing you also have to say clearly and clearly: A Federal Criminal Office has already been called for several times by ex-internal minister Schlögl. Time and again, the meetings on the service have shown that this would be useful. Just because it is now being implemented by our minister, it cannot be regarded as bad! Again: I think you're wrong or ill-informed. If this is the case in the Federal Criminal Office, not only the officials will be brought there, but also the tasks that the officials now have in the special units will be merged there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is really not to be understood that one does not give such an important law for the future of the executive the consent!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21701	No one is reporting on this. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask you to take the seats. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Parnigoni. Since this supplementary or amendment proposal contains constitutional provisions, I shall first determine the presence of the necessary quota within the meaning of § 82 GOG. I shall first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and then on the remaining parts of the draft law. There is, as has been said, an amendment tabled by Mr Parnigoni, which provides for the insertion of points 2a to 2d and a point 4 of Article I. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Mr Parnigoni has also tabled an amendment concerning Article I(3). Here again, I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to agree to this request to do so. – The request did not find the majority. We are therefore voting on Article I(3) as amended by the Government's proposal. In the event of approval, I would ask for a sign on this matter. . I note that this part of the draft law was adopted by a majority vote in second reading. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template, which have not yet been voted on. In the event of consent, I would like to express this. – I note that these parts have been accepted by majority vote. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask that those ladies and gentlemen of the House who wish to give their approval to this draft law at the third reading also be able to do so. I note that the draft law has been adopted by majority vote in third reading. We are therefore voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Parni-goni on the human situation in the Federal Ministry of the Interior by the establishment of a Federal Criminal Office. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. The motion for a resolution did not find the necessary majority and was therefore rejected. 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (761 of the Supplements): Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the United Arab Emirates on the promotion and protection of investment, including Protocol (915 of Supplements) 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (698 of the Supplements): ==References====External links== Agreement signed in Seoul in October 1985 between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Korea on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income tax (916 of the supplements) 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (738 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the prevention of double taxation in the fields of taxation of income and of assets, together with the Protocol (917 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (762 of the Supplements): Agreements between the Republic of Austria and Mongolia on the promotion and protection of investment (918 of the supplements) 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (765 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the promotion and mutual protection of investment (919 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (769 of the Supplements): Protocol amending the Convention of 23. July 1990 on the elimination of double taxation in the case of profit adjustments between related companies and final acts (920 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21862	We come to points 4 to 9 of today's agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. I have no wish for reporting. That is why we are going into the debate. I call Mr Kurt Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21893	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me here to say a few words on the Government template concerning the agreement between the Republic of Austria and the United Arab Emirates on the promotion and protection of investment. I can say that these agreements are usually very quietly and quietly decided, but I think it is necessary and particularly important to make a few brief comments here. These agreements are particularly important and valuable for the mutual external and external trade relations between these countries. Today, I have already mentioned that, with the United Arab Emirates, it is a country that has already invested around 5 billion schilling in an Austrian company in 1994 and thus proved that it has already placed high confidence in our country and in our economy. The United Arab Emirates has not been disappointed and is still extremely satisfied with this large investment. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that such agreements are important not only in principle, but also psychologically important for economic relations with these countries. In this particular case, I think that it is now much easier for Austrian companies to invest in the United Arab Emirates. It is a very interesting country that deserves to be invested with us from there, so that you can invest accordingly in return. I therefore hope that this agreement will contribute to further intensifying Austria's economic relations with the United Arab Emirates, and that economic relations will find further fertilization here. We will be happy to agree to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21929	The next speaker is Mr Hans Müller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e21953	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Agenda items 4 to 9 of this plenary session deal with both the prevention of double taxation with the countries of Korea and Belarus and the promotion and protection of investments with the United Arab Emirates, Mongolia and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Textually, such agreements are based on an OECD basic draft. Both Parties secure the most favoured and national equal treatment. Allow me now to address the promotion and protection of investment with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and to introduce the country briefly. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is 26 times larger than Austria and has about 23 million inhabitants. It is still worth mentioning that about 50 percent of the population are under 20 years of age. Both countries, Austria and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, are guided by the desire to intensify economic cooperation, in order to create favourable conditions for investment by investors of one State in the territory of the other State. [[Abg. Oillinger: Is Saudi Arabia a democracy? Maybe you'll say something about that!]] Improved economic cooperation is now to be enshrined in a 14 article comprehensive agreement, which for the time being has a term of ten years and can then be concluded indefinitely. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] This Agreement shall enter into force 60 days after the date on which the instruments of ratification have been exchanged. However, this agreement also has a safeguard function. It also regulates, among other things, compensation payments in the event of expropriations and losses in the war or in the case of revolts. Article 6 regulates the free transfer of payments in the event of a capital contribution, in the case of proceeds from liquidations or disposals, as well as in the case of income and other remuneration of the staff employed in connection with an investment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The possibility of making investments in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia from Austria under contractual conditions will increase Austria's attractiveness as an economic location. It can also be expected that investors from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia will increasingly invest in Austria and that new jobs will be created in this way. Which companies are already working very well with the Kingdom? [[Abg. Oillinger: Please answer my question!]] – In particular, the companies VA-Tech industrial plants, Steyr-Daimler-Puch, Rosenbauer, VAMED, Doublemayr and also smoke are to be called fruit juices. The exchange of goods between the two countries is at a value of around two billion schilling. It is also worth mentioning that in the first half of 2001, exports to this country increased by 22 percent. This government template was unanimously approved by the last financial committee. I should now like to ask the House to give its assent here as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22016	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. After that, we are expected to vote. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22038	Mr President. Almost I would have failed the language due to the in-depth presentation of the previous speaker. [[Abg. Böhacker: No superiority, my colleague.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: There was a content inside!]] Yes, yes – the content was that Saudi Arabia is 26 times the size of Austria and that the population is well under 20 years of age. I've already heard this and I don't want to comment on it. The only question is whether we can stay in a political body and a forum such as the plenary session of the National Council if Saudi Arabia is the subject. Let us talk about the investment protection agreements, and let us also say that under certain conditions they can help both states! But it will no longer be possible for this House and the relevant committees to remain in a position to hold once again the necessary debates on the principle: What do investment protection agreements mean in times of globalisation, in times of WTO efforts that go in a very specific direction – you probably know – and especially in times when the MAI agreement, which would have brought great disadvantages to disadvantaged countries, has been removed from the agenda and now wants to get back in through the back door? That is why we will insist – and this has been a positive signal in the Committee – that we will finally be carrying out appropriate debates in the Committee on Economic and/or Financial Affairs on these fundamental issues. Then such a thing could not happen that the valued previous speaker goes out here, in times like this only speaks about the size of Saudi Arabia and does not lose a word about how the human rights situation or, for example, the situation of women's rights is there! If this is your understanding of economic promotion – well, then good night! That's why your calls are completely inappropriate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This fundamental debate is essential. I am also pleased that she has been promised to us. Only under these conditions will we continue to agree to this investment protection agreement, as well as today.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22094	No further words are available. We come to the individual votes, first of all we come to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with the United Arab Emirates on the promotion and protection of investment, together with Protocol 761 of the Supplement, to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their consent to give a sign. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol amending the Agreement with the Republic of Korea signed in Seoul to avoid double taxation in the field of income tax and wealth to grant approval. Here, too, I may ask for a sign in the case of approval. – I note that this is also unanimously accepted. We come to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty with the Republic of Belarus to avoid double taxation in the field of income taxes and of the assets and the protocol. In the event of consent, I ask you to testify. – The National Council shall act unanimously. Next, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty with Mongolia on the promotion and protection of investment in 762 of the Supplements. In the event of approval, I would ask for a sign on this matter. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the promotion and mutual protection of investments in 765 of the Supplements. In case of consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This approval shall also be granted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty amending the Convention of 23. In July 1990 on the elimination of double taxation in the case of profit adjustments between related companies, and the final act in 769 of the Supplements, to be approved. If you agree, I'll ask for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the request made by the Financial Committee within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitution that the embodiment of this Protocol must be carried out in all authentic language versions by means of a requirement in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. – This is unanimously decided, and we will therefore proceed in this way. 10. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (879 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the taxation of public water resources with fishing rights (921 of the Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 536/A by Mr Hermann Böhacker, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, colleagues concerning a federal law on the sale of federal shares in airport companies and of unmovable federal assets (922 of the supplements) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 543/A by Mr Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachler, Mag. Gilbert Trattner, colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Finance Act 2002 (2. BFG-Novelle 2002) (926 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 537/A by Mr Hermann Böhacker, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, colleagues on a federal law amending the Civil Fund Act 1996 (923 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22253	This brings us to points 10 to 13 of the agenda. Reports will not be desired for this purpose. That is why we are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22283	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on fishing rights in all the necessary short periods. A decision by the Supreme Court in February left these fishing rights in public waters in opposition, and a great deal of uncertainty arose. To end this legal uncertainty, a non-dayly alliance has formed: on the one hand, the workers' fishing associations, a social-democratic traditional association, on the other hand, Mr. Haider from Carinthia, and on the other hand the main association of agriculture and forestry. They all meant that it was necessary to regulate this and to create basic book entries free of charge and charge. This condition arose without a misbehavior, without omissions and without missing actions from those concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! The government template was inadequate. The SPÖ therefore approved amendments to the Financial Committee last week, the logical changes, namely the freedom of charge, and it is also not justified in fact that only the fishery disaster has proved its worth. Ladies and gentlemen! The arguments of the SPÖ have prevailed. The government parties have been convinced that changes are useful here. There will be a four-party amendment, thanks to the SPÖ initiative and also thanks to the willingness of FPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens to do so. The fishermen will appreciate this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22321	The next speaker is Mr Mühlbachler. He's got the floor. – Mr Mühlbachler, Member of the Commission. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a neighbor, I now have a pro-redner to speak to Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22352	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Also in a short time: The Social Democratic Finance Ministers have failed to achieve this – Karl-Heinz Grasser, the Minister of Finance, has in a short time achieved an agreement with the countries. I am not talking about fishing rights, but about the sale of federal shares in airports and federal land in these airport areas. This is a very interesting and excellent solution. In addition, the ÖSAG shares are transferred to the Federation and then to the ASFINAG. In addition, agreements were also made in this package to promote the Kunsthaus in Graz, the Museum am Berg in Salzburg and a renovation of the stadium in Klagenfurt. In summary, this is an act of real, living federalism, it is a social structural adjustment, and also the criticism of the Court of Auditors has been taken into sustainable consideration. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You'd like that!]] It could be said that Minister of Finance Grasser could certainly have redeemed some million more, but then it would have been likely that Salzburg would have become an airport for Munich, and we do not want to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But the anrainers already want this!]] In summary: a typical "win-win" situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22401	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22422	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I am referring to the report of the Committee on Budgets. Just briefly: We will vote in favour of this amendment so that the Austrian airports can at least enjoy the State's insurance protection temporarily after the private large insurers have failed. I hope, Mr State Secretary, that in the foreseeable future a market-oriented and compliant solution can take place again, because it cannot be the case that, after such a tragic incident, the large investment insurers for airlines and airports simply agree on their responsibility on a long-term basis. I also believe that this should be an excellent example against your philosophy of making compulsory insurance compulsory. Even if such manners were to enter there, then good night, ladies and gentlemen! That's what you should tell the insurers. We will therefore agree to this proposal in order to provide our airlines and our airports with limited protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22457	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22505	Several points, but briefly. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: If he speaks in less than 2 minutes, he gets applause from me!]] First of all, on the federal shares and sale of the airport companies: This exchange is a good cleaning. The point is that we already have to point out what will happen in these airport companies themselves. We then no longer welcome this without further delay, which is in view here. For example, if in Graz already shares of the airport are going to ESTAG, the Styrian energy supply company, but there the EdF is becoming more and more widespread and then eventually the EdF is possibly the majority operator of the airport in Graz, then I must say that would not be particularly done and desirable. Only, I am able to differentiate and say that this act makes sense without the others, and the other is the responsibility of Styria's national policy. It just has to be said, because it comes to us, I mean, a lot more unpleasant. Fisheries rights have been negotiated. I would particularly like to thank my colleagues from SPÖ for their negotiation efforts and also thank the Government for its willingness to accept them. One last point which has not yet been mentioned concerns the disaster fund. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Slow and nice talk!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The two minutes are over!]] – Mr Khol, don’t irritate me now! The Civil Protection Fund now makes provisions for climate protection quite indirectly or not for climate protection, but for the damage to drought that threatens. This is exactly the proof that the Greens are always right to say that if you don't look at it in good time, the whole thing will get even more expensive. You have managed to do so with this government proposal. And at some point the question will also be to ask who is economically liable for all these things, Mr Khol! - Now I've been kidding your applause, but that was my goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22581	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22602	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I want to be on the 2nd in a short time. BFG-Novelle 2002. We know the terrible attack of the 11th. September this year still shows its impact, and even after three months the international insurance market is still irritated and affected. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is simply about the problem that at present no single insurance institution is willing to cover those risks that could be caused by terror and war in aviation. There is, therefore, no other alternative than that the State should be given a limited liability here, as provided for in this proposal. That is why we will give the Social Democrats our approval to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22634	The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22656	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We're dealing with four points. Firstly, with regard to the burden on public waters with fishing rights, of course I can give or announce approval by my group. I should like to point out that we are very grateful for the amendment that could be drawn up in joint work. However, I would like to be 13th. The agenda item or the fourth item in the summary debate, namely the amendment of the Civil Fund Act. There is probably no profession that depends on the nature and mood of the weather as the profession of the farmer. And especially in this area, in this year in the south of Austria, there were, in part, quite dramatic damage to drought. The amendment of the Civil Fund Act allows some of these damage to drought. Mr Kogler, these damages do not threaten or will not occur, but they have already occurred, and the compensation is an important, up-to-date task. I would like to thank the political groups for the signal they have put here by allowing farmers who have been severely affected to at least help 150 million schilling in this problem to pay a small part of the damage and to ensure that a certain amount of compensation is created in the field of green land, where there is no insurance. I would also like to thank the hail insurance in Austria, which is trying to establish an insurance model for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22702	Mr Heindl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22723	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say a few words about the transfer of the shares to the airports in the Federal Republic of Germany. We agree, probably knowing that the federal government has also provided substantial financial support in the development of the airport infrastructure. Why I'm going to President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – We know that the airlines are in trouble worldwide, and if I have heard today that the declines in the Austrian Airlines Group are not as dramatic as with others, it is gratifying. But of course the Austrian Airlines Group has to fight with enormous problems this year. In the context of airport decentralisation, I would like to stress that the Austrian Airlines Group should be maintained, for reasons in the area of tourism, because we are an incoming tourism country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I call on the government to break its head so that there is no sale here, because this would be extremely important in the medium and long term for Austria's economic location, for the tourist location Austria. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: I think so too!]] A second issue is the merger of ASFINAG and OESAG. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: A topic is enough!]] Please, I have to say, this too is an old demand from us. Of course we agree, ladies and gentlemen. But it should also include Alpenstraßen AG in Tyrol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No!]] We don't need three or two societies that belong together, and I'm appealing to you all: Please allow economic reason to prevail! Forty You do not agree with the particularism on this issue, but rather with it! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (turning to the delegates behind him) Mander, it's time!]] We want this! Please forget for a moment that one comes from Tyrol and the other from Styria; we come from Vienna. All of this is in one hand, and this will certainly be of particular importance in the longer term. We agree with the law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22818	The next speaker is Mr Müller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22839	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In 2001, significant damage to agricultural culture has been caused in several regions of our home country by persistent drought. In order to be able to provide assistance to the farmers concerned throughout Austria, compensations from the Federal Government and countries will be provided up to a maximum of 150 million schillings. The grant of federal funds shall be subject to the condition that the countries make available equal amounts. The funds are therefore to be financed by the Federal Government and the Länder 50 : 50, half of which will be spent on the reserve of the disaster fund and half on less expenditure on disaster fund funds over the year. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Mertel and Dr. Khol.]] The aim is to deal with the countries, with two different legal approaches. In both cases, applications shall be submitted by the promoters to the competent State. The details of the settlement shall be provided by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. If this is no longer possible in 2001, these compensations may also be used in 2002. This sensible and necessary assistance for our farmers throughout Austria was welcomed and decided unanimously at the last financial committee meeting. I now ask the House to agree to this amendment to the 1996 Civil Fund Act. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] 22.5 2
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22877	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22899	Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I too am dealing with the amendment of the Federal Finance Act 2002. It is about extending the liability framework, and we did on 26 May. On September 7, a liability framework of 700 million Schilling was adopted for the airlines. This law is now about extending this liability framework. However, there is also an extension, which originally refers only to the airlines, and this law now deals with airports and the service companies operating there. We will, of course, be happy to give our assent to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22926	The next speaker is Mr Firlinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22947	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to return to the sale of federal shares, which I naturally see in a transport context, similar to Mr Heindl. I mean, it must be said quite clearly that after many years the march direction was finally fixed, namely a march direction, which means: high-ranking road network is federal competence. In the operational version, this means: Service by ASFINAG. The rest of the road network falls within the competence of the countries and municipalities, so it is a matter of country. This separation was necessary and has been initiated. Therefore, I am pleased that this construction has come about, which in fact has also enabled social unbundling. I am entirely of the opinion of Mr Heindl, if he thinks that the ASG should not be left out. Yes, I am also of this opinion. The aim should be a special company of the federal government that can handle the entire area. This is also being worked on. Mr. Dr. Heindl! You will probably also build a special additional crutch. There are also federal shares at Innsbruck Airport. I imagine there being a similar construction in the foreseeable future. There are then some other airports, such as Linz, which would also play in this matter. There it is only very difficult because these are actually military airports. In this sense, I believe that this is a good approach, a good law, and I am pleased that this is a matter for decision-making today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The last point concerns federal liability: Of course, you have to say one thing very clearly: It's not that way forever. I also expect the competent authorities at European level to take the reinsurers – who have a monopoly character – into account once again. I think that would be high on time. In an informal discussion with the insurance industry, we have today come to believe that there is something going on here. So I'm good things that will soon be done in a positive sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e22997	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Shame. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23018	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is clear to me that it is not really popular to speak here at 23 o'clock on fishing rights. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: At least he has humor!]] But I just think that's just for the reason that many of you are not actually aware of what important and really essential right has been changed here. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Don’t say that’s for the fish!]] For the fishermen, it was really a step in the right direction, as ultimately justice demands it. Why would I like to comment on this? – I think it would be fair to lose one word or another about why this law exists today, and to say something about the history of the Genesis of this law. It should be noted that a year ago I found on my desk an interesting correspondence indicating that officials were at work – I would like to say almost official desk perpetrators – who have planned and carried out a brutal attack on the property of individuals without accurate knowledge of the situation. It would have been like a cold expropriation if this passage – I do not want to quote it here today – had become really beating. My first way was to the head of the state of Carinthia, and he immediately – and I emphasize this – has declared his willingness to sign sending documents in the interests of the fishermen and to enter into negotiations with Grassers and Molterers, who immediately respond to these incredible events and – I would like to say this now a biterl army – returned their officials there. At the same time, a Carinthian model has been developed, which is now the basis of this law. Another point, of course, was that Mr. University Professor Dr. Ogris recognized that fishing rights could be included in the law as a manifest service. This was finally confirmed by an OGH judgment. And in order to implement this sensible law, which is close to the citizen, without great effort, it is important to take this decision here today. We welcome this law, and it has our approval. Finally, I would like to thank all the fishermen – I am one of them – for their two ministers, Molterer and Grasser. You've been doing justice here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23078	Mr Grollitsch has now come to speak. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23099	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! "Petri Heil!" at the late hour. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Calls:Petri Thanks]] I have already announced an amendment which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Just a brief note, ladies and gentlemen: The Supreme Court decided: If, since 1916, a fishing right was sold in public waters without the property belonging to it, the booking of this right would be equivalent to a re-establishment of a service – and now comes – which the federal government would not have to accept, at least free of charge. On the basis of this OGH judgment, the Minister of Finance has generously decided not to sell this right, but to carry out the fact that fishermen have been fishing for years and decades and have of course also provided their services for fish waters, and he has provided the opportunity for it to be transferred to them. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is a sensible solution. The amendment was necessary – that is to say at this hour's time – because too few fishermen in the financial committee were there when we talked about this presentation. I would therefore ask you to approve. It was a joint work, it was the main association involved and all the political groups. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23180	The amendment is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I do not have any further comments to make on this. I now only ask for a second to make sure that this amendment by the last speaker is in the Croquis. As no rapporteur wishes to speak, we shall proceed to the vote, and we shall vote separately on the various committee proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 879 of the supplements. Hiezu has tabled the amendment which has just been referred to, together with the other groups, Dr Grollitsch, which refers to § 1 of the draft law. In view of the fact that there is only one amendment, I shall immediately vote on the whole draft law, including title and receipt, taking account of this amendment. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this in second reading to give a sign on this. – I note that this is so unanimously decided. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading to give a sign. – The proposal was also adopted unanimously at third reading. Next, we will vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 922 of the supplements. I should also like to ask that the ladies and gentlemen, who agree, give a sign of approval. – This was unanimously adopted at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the draft law at third reading to give a sign. – The proposal was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 926 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign on this. The proposal was adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should also like to express this in the case of third-reading approval. – The proposal was also adopted unanimously at third reading. Finally, we vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 923 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign. – 923 was adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the draft law at third reading to give a sign. – The proposal was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 14. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (766 of the Supplements): Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child concerning the Participation of Children in Armed Conflicts and Declaration by the Republic of Austria (942 of the Supplements) 15. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (801 of the Supplements): Amendment to Article 43(2) of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the Conference of the Contracting States on 12 December December 1995 (943 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23304	We come to points 14 and 15 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. No reporting is required. Mrs. Federal Minister Ferrero-Waldner has informed us – and this has been noted – that she is represented by Mr State Secretary for a stay abroad. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23334	Mr President. High house! This Optional Protocol on the Rights of the Child concerning the Participation of Children in Armed Conflicts is a very important protocol to promote and protect the rights of the Child. I am pleased that there has been a four-party agreement in the Committee on this Convention. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] The Convention on the Rights of the Child of 20. In November 1989, as a minimum age for children's participation in armed conflicts, the completion of the 15th century was completed. Year of life. This Agreement is signed on 5 July. ==References====External links== It is the first international treaty to deal exclusively with this matter and, on the basis of a comprehensive ratification by all the countries of the world, with the exception of the United States and Somalia, it has become a universal human rights treaty. For the purposes of this Convention, children who are 15 years of age are entitled to a pension. Have not yet completed years of life, not directly participating in hostilities. Due to the systematic human rights violations that have once again occurred worldwide in international and internal conflicts, which have repeatedly and frequently occurred in children, public awareness of the problem has intensified, especially as the problem of child soldiers is associated with mostly long-lasting and irreversible psychological damage and difficult social reintegration processes. The optional protocol now in force raises the age of protection for children in armed conflicts from 15 to 18 years and, at the same time, standardises the permitted minimum age for voluntary military services of 16 years, whereby, on the basis of the applicable Austrian law, Austria undertakes to enlist a voluntary appointment to the Austrian army only with the achievement of the 17th anniversary. In the case of a voluntary appointment of a person, and only with the express consent of the legal representative. The present Protocol not only increases the protection age of child soldiers from 15 to 18 years, but has also made an important and clear breakthrough for the physical and psychosocial rehabilitation and social reintegration of children who have become victims of armed conflicts. This is a significant progress towards the 1949 Geneva Convention on the Protection of Children in International Armed Conflicts and thus an important step towards the effective protection of children under international law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23379	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23401	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I too am glad that this additional protocol is now in place. Unfortunately, it is not as clearly written as we and many other states would have wished. But the success must also be seen in the fact that the United States has been able to sign and ratify this Additional Protocol, even though, like Somalia, they have not yet ratified the Child Law Convention, as Mr Posch has already said. However, it is a success that the US has agreed to the age of 18 – not for the recruitment of volunteers, but for standard cases. So there is little progress now in this optional protocol, and I am happy about that. According to UN estimates, around 300,000 children worldwide who are recruited in armed conflicts are forced to participate in armed conflicts, or are also "only" abused as shields in mine-search operations. Especially for children, participation in armed conflicts is particularly traumatic. They can defend themselves far less than adults against being drawn in, and they have to suffer mental trauma all their lives if they are not killed anyway. – In this sense, I think it is very positive that all parties agree here. I would like to add something: I would have liked to see Austria's representatives in the UN Security Council – in which Austria currently has no mandate, but nevertheless every state can vote – express themselves in this regard. Although I know that it is not usual to speak there, I think it would have been good on this subject, if one had also raised the vote on the Austrian side and said: Yes, we stand by it and support it! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another comment on the Convention on Children's Rights: Of course, it is easy to ratify something that does not concern us ourselves, because there are no child soldiers in Austria. However, there is a request from the Greens for a constitutional anchoring of the Convention on Children's Rights. The Austrian Children's and Youth Advocates have been demanding this for a long time, and there is already a final proposal from the Boltzmann Institute. . I very much hope that the Family Committee will also have a common position on this matter for all political groups so that the Convention on Child Law can also be established in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23452	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23470	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are today adopting a Convention on the Rights of the Child concerning the Participation of Children in Armed Conflicts. We set up a committee for this purpose. This is about the sad reality of the so-called child soldiers – Mr Posch has already mentioned it. The aim of this international agreement is to increase the minimum age to 18 years. I am still speaking because we have to mention that we have already implemented this regulation in Austria. With the amendment to the Wehrgesetz this year, we have ensured that no one under 18 years of age in Austria will be employed and that those who volunteer as 17-year-olds for the provision of the basic defence service can only be used in the training areas. – As a result, we agree to this agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23504	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child concerning the Participation of Children in Armed Conflicts and Declaration by the Republic of Austria to be approved in 766 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Policy within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the Optional Protocol is to be made known by the fact that in Arab, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish it is necessary for public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to do so to give a sign on this matter. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Amendment to Article 43 para. 2 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the Conference of the Contracting States on 12 December. In December 1995, approval was granted in 801 of the Supplements. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to a sign in this regard. – This is also unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Policy within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the change in the current state of affairs is to be made known by the fact that in Arab, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish it is necessary for public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign on this point. – This is largely accepted. 16. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (803 of the Supplements): The Federal Law, which sets out the Federal Law on Intergovernmental Air Transport 1997 (Federal Law on Air Transport), the Flight Accident Investigation Law, the Airport Landhandling Act, the Animal Transport Act, the Opportunity Law 1996, the Road Traffic Regulations 1960, the Animal Transport Act Street, the Driving Licence Act, the Goods Transport Act 1995, the Motors Act 1967, the 3. KFG-Novelle, 4. KFG-Novelle, the Dangerous Goods Promotion Act (GGGG), the Container Safety Act, the Railway Law 1957, the Tierverkehrsgesetz-Eisenbahn, the High Performance Track Act, the Federal Act establishing a "Brenner Eisenbahn GmbH", the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act, the Federal Railway Law 1992, the Railway Transport Act, the Federal Law on the Order of Public Passengers and Regional Transport, the Shipping Act, the Federal Law of 26. On 21 June 1974, the Federal Law on Intergovernmental Navigation on Waterways, the Federal Law of 21 June 1974 amending the Port Institutions Promotion Act. October 1988 on the fulfilment of the Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany on inland waterway transport and the Appendix and Additional Protocol, the Federal Law on the Compliance of the Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on inland waterway transport, the German Law on the Law on the Law on the Enforcement of the International Ship Survey Convention, the Maritime Compliance Act (SSEG), the Marchfeld Kanalgesetz, the Telecommunications Act, the Amateur Radio Law, the Funker-Zeugnisgesetz, the Telecom Fee Fees Act, the Post Act, the Federal Law on Transport Labour Inspection, the Research and Technology Promotion Act, the Innovation and Technology Fund Act, the Federal Law on the Austrian Research and Testing Centre Arsenal Society with Limited Liability and the Federal Law on the Transfer of the Danube Transport Entwicklungsgesellschaft m.b.H. to be amended to the Confederation (Euro-Conversion Act Transport, Innovation and Technology – EUGVIT) (909 of the Supplements) 17. Point Report and request of the Transport Committee on the draft Federal Law establishing the Federal Law on Radio Installations and Telecommunications, BGBl. I No. 134/2001, amended (910 of the supplements) 18. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (852 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Railway Act 1992 (911 of Supplements) 19. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (774 of the Supplements): Documents of the World Postal Association (Beijing 1999), namely (a) Sixth Additional Protocol to the Statute of the World Postal Association, (b) General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Association, (c) World Postal Treaty and Final Protocol, (d) Agreement on Postal Payment Services (912)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23614	We now come to the items 16 to 19 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23640	Ladies and gentlemen! On the four templates in a short time: With regard to the Telecom application, a great opportunity has been missed as no cell phone marking has been included. That would have been a huge step towards consumer protection! To reduce the Supervisory Board of ÖBB: We shall vote in favour of this. Why not? – However, there is a problem: Would it not have been possible to regulate the accessibility or the reduction of barriers in the railway sector at the same time? ==References== Agenda item on the report on the World Postal Organisation's documents: Ladies and gentlemen, we will, of course, agree to this. You should remember that, through this consent, we have also agreed to the comprehensive provision of postal services in our country. – Perhaps this will lead to a rethinking of your post office closing euphoria that you are currently having! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23700	The next speaker was Mr Edler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23722	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a brief comment on the novelle on the Federal Railway Act. We will vote in favour of this amendment, I would just like to make a few comments. This is a reduction of the Supervisory Board from 18 to 15 people. The third representative of the Staff Office shall remain in charge, and that shall be acknowledged. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the political forerunner was such that a political overcoloration was initiated at the Austrian Bundesbahnen. However, the railways did not take note of this. The best result for the Social Democratic Group was achieved in the personnel election. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What color did the AK have so far?]] Mr Gaugg, above all the so-called workers' representatives of the FPÖ should think about this, because you lost 80 percent of the votes in the railways. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They have convened the successful Director-General Draxler, who was on the best track to lead the Austrian Federal Railways to the top of Europe. They didn't want that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] They really wanted to strive for what you agreed in the Coalition Agreement, namely to achieve the separation between infrastructure and sales. Think about it again! Look This is what you are looking at in those states that carried it out years ago! For example, the British railway is facing the collapse, the state has to jump back in, and that can't be sense and purpose! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Rather, it would be necessary to finally introduce a cost-effectiveness in transport, and this is possible through the introduction of truck-road pricing. In this respect, you are sumptuous. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Why didn't you introduce it?]] We'll be However, they will not be released from responsibility, but we will continue to put this demand up constantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23810	Mr Kukacka has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23831	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Don't worry! I am no longer going to engage in a fundamental debate on this subject today. [[Abg. Eder: Super!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Damage!]] It's much too late for that, although it's always attractive to talk to you about such things. Mr Edler! Just so much: There is no overcoloration at the ÖBB, but at best a discoloration: We are now trying to use a Supervisory Board which is technically competitive and politically balanced. That's what we're planning! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I must also again and again wonder that you are so sorry to Mr Draxler today, Mr Edler! Have a year ago They blamed him here, said he was impossible, criticised the structural measures he had planned, and meant that all of this would have an impact on workers in the company. And now you're going to regret him, Mr. Colleague. [[Abg. Edler: I don't!]] You're not credible! One thing is clear: They have always resisted any kind of reform at the Austrian Federal Railways. This was so in the case of the distribution from the Ministry of Transport, that was the case with the new Federal Railway Act, and this will also be the case in future reforms. Nevertheless, there will be reforms because they are essential, ladies and gentlemen. In this sense, we agree with these laws because they represent another important reform for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23905	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23927	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The reduction of the Supervisory Board in the Federal Railways is a logical consequence. The board has also been reduced. One has seen that the number of board members can be reduced without further delay from five to three. That is why I believe that we do not need to comment on this matter any further. It is a matter of form. Mr Edler, I would, however, not like to disagree with your comment from the outset. The Supervisory Board members, the ten capital representatives and the five staff representatives, do good work. I am opposed to saying that this is a political crew that has been recolored. Just the opposite is the case! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are highly professional managers at the plant, who have stood their husband all over the economy and have acquired great merit as an economic captain. It is good that this decision has come. It is a good thing that, in the first place, economic captains and business executives in this important supervisory body have the command and that party policy is not always the priority. I agree and welcome it. I believe that in other supervisory bodies too, we must make a cut and ensure that there is a rejuvenation and slimming in order to get the best out of these companies in the sense of the administrative economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23963	The next speaker was Mr Kiermaier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e23995	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ will agree with the proposals to be discussed here. Finally, the Euro Act is the technological need to convert the amount of schilling into euro in the individual laws. The international obligations in the field of postal services, which we decide to make it possible to modernise international postal services. Finally, we will adopt a Federal Railway Act, which provides for a reduction of the Supervisory Board from 18 to 15 members. As a self-employed person, I can fully understand that there are reorganisations from time to time. These are necessary. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, what this Federal Government has done in the field of ÖIAG and related companies was not a constructive transformation. Indeed, this was not about creating new competences and restructuring the management and supervisory board, but the foreign exchange was exclusively: Red out, blue in! And that's exactly how it was done. Ladies and gentlemen! I just want to mention a few names: For example, Director-General Draxler had to go to the ÖBB, where ÖIAG had to go with Strings, Ditz, Staribacher, Pöhacker, Wieland and Leichmann, with Krejci, Staribacher and Schröffelbauerer, Telekom AG it was Ditz and Sindelka, ASFINAG Engleder and Schragel and the AUA Rehulka and Pammer. Didn't all those mentioned work well? Did they know anything? – You can't tell anyone, ladies and gentlemen! What you're doing here is party politics in pure culture! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The list is in fact much longer, ladies and gentlemen! More than 250 million schillings are the "cleaning costs" you have caused! You are ready to do with earned but rejected managers do everything you just think you want to do because you want to make room for your artists! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That's not what we're going to do. Mrs. Federal Minister! It's not a famous leaf! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e24059	The next speaker was Mr Fink. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e24080	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! On point 16 regarding the amendment of the Federal Railway Law you could be – that would be funny! – once again say something about the train. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler]] In any case, it is right when Mr Edler says that there has been a good outcome for the Social Democrats in the election. I congratulate you on that! In the last 50 years, however, you have failed to modernise the train! That's what's forgotten! You have pursued a very hard personnel policy and, if someone was admitted to the railway, you have looked back to the third generation to see if all family members were actually SPÖ members. Therefore, this beautiful result for you! Finally, however, with this Supervisory Board we will finally come to a red-and-white Supervisory Board, which has the chance to modernise this train! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] This is a small law or a small change for the benefit of the ÖBB customers.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e24143	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e24161	Ladies and gentlemen! I didn't think you could make it to surprise me here today! But Mr. Edler and Mr. Kiermaier really did! You have done here a revelation that can no longer be surpassed by shamelessness! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edler: Go!]] They "moss" around here about a coloring à la "Red out, Blue pure"! Are you aware of what you're saying here? – You admit or confess here that you have conducted shameless party politics in recent years! Shame on it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government template represents the free movement policy: Reducing bureaucracy, streamlining administration, saving tax money and pushing back party accounting, even if it hurts so much, Mr Edler! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Final sentence: Good work, Mrs. Minister! Keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e24228	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I would ask you to take the places, because we are going to vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft Euro-Conversion Act on Transport, Innovation and Technology, together with the title and receipt in 909 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We also reach the vote on the draft federal law on radio equipment and telecommunications facilities and the title and entry into 910 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft Federal Railway Act, together with the title and receipt in 852 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the proposal from the Transport Committee, on the conclusion of the State contracts in question: Documents of the World Postal Association (Beijing 1999), namely (a) Sixth Additional Protocol to the Statute of the World Postal Association, (b) (d) Agreements on postal payment services to be approved in 774 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion from the Committee on Transport, within the meaning of Article 49(2). 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that these state contracts are to be announced by the fact that they are 1st in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, 2nd in the Post Office, 3rd in Austria Post AG, Corporate Center, Postgasse 8, 1011 Vienna, and 4th in the Regional Centres of Austrian Post AG, Regional Center Graz, Neutorgasse 46, 8010 Graz, Regional Center Innsbruck, Maximilianstraße 2, 6010 Innsbruck, Regional Center Klagenfurt, Sterneckstraße 19, 9020 Klagenfurt, Regional Center Linz, Domgasse 1, 4010 Linz, Regional Center Salzburg, Marktplatz 6, 5020 Salzburg, and Regional Center Wien, Nordbergstraße 15, 1091 Vienna, to public attention. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign on this point. – This is also unanimously adopted. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No! Only by a majority!]] – I correct: This is largely accepted. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00087_d7e24289	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed applications 566/A to 577/A have been tabled. Question No 3188/J to 3211/J has also been raised. Finally, Question 21/JPR, which is a request from Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, has been made to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations is scheduled for 23.33 a.m. This meeting is closed.
