ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2128	Ladies and gentlemen! I may ask you to take the seats, and I will open the 89. The meeting of the National Council, convened for today at 2 p.m. Deputies from Nuremberg, Dr. Gusenbauer, Mag. Mainoni, Ortlieb, Lexer, Mag. Stoisits and Dr. Van der Bellen. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2159	The Federal Chancellor told me in writing that he was in Brussels this afternoon. For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Mr Scheibner Minister of State Defense is represented by the Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer. Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2188	Mrs Petrovic has spoken on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2209	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I request that item 7 be deleted from the agenda for a veterinary medicinal product control law and a federal law on the import of medicinal products, the 2002 import of medicinal products, as in the meantime there have been circumstances that make the self-medication of animals by farmers even more objectionable than the Committee's deliberations. In particular, the first BSE case in Austria has become known at the end of last week, and it is to be feared that consumer confidence will continue to be shaken if, in this way, in this Parforce tour, the relevant legislative instruments are being implemented here today. We therefore want to see a rethinking period in this context and to take at least one of the next plenary sessions to get into this debate again. That is why our request today to withdraw item 7 from the agenda and to hold a debate here in the House on this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2249	Mr Dr. Khol spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2270	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say on this request that we have reached consensus in the Presidential Conference on the procedure for this afternoon. I emphasize: This agenda has been set in consensus! What Mrs Petrovic now does, namely to apply the clausula rebus sic stantibus, i.e. to act as if the circumstances had changed and therefore no longer applied this consensus, is a unique process in my 18-year-old Parliamentary experience in terms of Rules of Procedure and in matters of the Presidential Conference – and lets us look deeply. I am against this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2310	Ladies and gentlemen! According to the provisions of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, it is so that, if the President does not accede to the objections, the National Council has to decide on them. I am not in favour of these objections; therefore, the decision lies with the National Council. Secondly, If a debate is required, a debate must be held. The President may limit the speaking time to 5 minutes. – I make use of this opportunity. The President may also limit the number of speakers to three. – I would suggest – so that we can move a little bit together – to decide on two speakers in consensus. Is that acceptable? Thank you. I then proceed in such a way and assume that Mrs Petrovic's first speech comes from Mrs. Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2345	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! This year the public was quite shaken, through publicly debated cases of drug abuse in relation to animals. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is a contentious debate – and not a debate on the Rules of Procedure!]] I know you hate to hear this, because you used to represent a completely different line! And that is why you will hear this very well now, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At that time, we were given the prospect that legal gaps would be closed in this context. We have also really hoped – especially with this Federal Minister! – that this will happen. – However, in the legislative discussions we were rather disappointed and shocked that this apparently did not succeed or that there was a lobby very much enforced and therefore there is the possibility under this law that lay people may make medical interventions on animals, for example, administer vaccinations, place a stock of medicines and give them as well. – That means that what has been revealed in the course of this scandal is now to be allowed. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] Mr Bundesminister Head of the Committee said that he could set a restriction by regulation. – But as these lobbys have done so far, I do not think it will be a restriction, but what the Veterinary Chamber fears will ultimately give a broad opening to completely dubious machinations at the expense of consumers and animals. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, I know that you do not like to talk about it, and you have just smuggled into the debate on the economic situation yesterday a separate statement by Mr Federal Minister of State on the BSE issue and thus took this House the possibility of a separate debate. But I told you at the time: They do not get past such a debate, because of course there is a connection between these materials, as the Chamber of Veterinars says, which is strongly committed to the fact that this item is not done in this way, because it is precisely because there is a fear that, on the one hand, the pharmaceutical lobby, on the other, the lobby of the animal factory owners, on the other hand, the veterinary doctors are getting far too late, so that severe diseases, such as BSE or other serious diseases, are not or will be recognized too late, resulting in the need for an ever more intensive use of medicines – and, ultimately, at the expense of animals, at the expense of consumers and thus at the expense of the confidence of the markets. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We have already heard that Austrian products are subject to an import stop by other countries – and I therefore believe that this law now, at this time, would result in a further shock of the confidence of the markets. That is the wrong thing to do! After the drug scandal now a lobby law, a non-debate in Parliament on BSE-Causa – and so through, one can only say: You don't need to do more to shake the still quite functioning markets! Therefore our urgent appeal: Let's take this thoughtful break! Take this matter of law from the agenda! As I said, Competent voices of veterinarians demand this; the interested public likewise. In front of this house there are animal protection organisations that appeal to you once again – in a nice and friendly way – not to do so. That is why we propose that this item on the agenda be withdrawn from the agenda and that we should have a re-thinking break.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2439	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2460	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will focus on what should be the subject of an objection debate. Mrs Petrovic, this legislative matter, which is to be discussed here today, is a progress – as far as I am aware of veterinarians who actually recognize it. [[Contradict with the Greens.]] Prophylactic vaccinations make sense, are in the interests of animal welfare, are in the interests of consumer protection. - That's what I'm talking about. On the matter of law itself, which is to be discussed here today: There was a normal review procedure on this one, Mrs Petrovic. This was followed by a detailed discussion in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. In November, it was delayed, because there were still some demands. – Then there was a second round of discussion and thus a broad parliamentary treatment in the committees, namely on 6 June. December of this year. Your group, Mrs Petrovic, was also obviously satisfied with the treatment that you did not make any further request for a postponement. Further: The representative of the Greens in the Presidency has also agreed to a decision on this agenda today. The Greens, therefore, were fully in agreement with the discussion and decision-making of this law in the course of today's agenda. [[Call the Greens.]] Therefore, there is no reason from your side and for yourself to make this request for a postponement here and today – and therefore we will not agree to this request either.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2527	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2548	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Socialist Group fully supports the Green Group's request, and I would like to explain it in detail. Mr Schweitzer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few brief remarks on the comments made by Mr Schweitzer. Mr Schweitzer, it is true: There has been a review of the veterinary medicinal products control law and the import of medicinal products law, only: This proposal has been taken up in such a way as to remove relevant provisions contained in the original text. Lawyers spoke of illegal practices, in particular with regard to criminal provisions. Then what happened? – Then there was no government proposal, but it was, in the form of an attack, a request to the Health Committee – and then, in your opinion, all these problems should be solved in a short debate. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, that is not possible! And that is why we reject the proposal that will still be discussed today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Veterinary Medicines Control Act is about trying to control criminal activities, illegal imports. It is about bovine and pig doping in the worst form. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Please note: In June 2000, you rejected our ideas about combating drug abuse in agriculture! I told you from this point of view that the last word has not yet been spoken on this matter. And I repeat today, my much-honored Ladies and gentlemen from agriculture: The last word has not yet been spoken in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They have made a request by forceful means. They didn't meet with the veterinarians before. There has been no public debate on this, and you have not responded to our criticisms in any way. Now there is the first BSE case. And there is a direct link with this, especially in the Federal Government, because it is precisely there that the deficits of control in the agricultural sector become clear. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Please vote with us to dissociate this item from the agenda so that we can reach a common line – to protect Austrian consumers, but also to protect Austrian farmers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Skill You remember what it was all about? – It was about measures against motorway veterinarians. It was about punishing the possession of illegal drugs. But it was also about clarifying the question of antibiotic resistance – I quote from the "Salzburger Nachrichten": Antibiotics seem less and less! – I ask You from the government parties: When was the question of antibiotic resistance discussed in a committee? You have also abstained from this discussion. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Skill Do you still remember the problem with the veterinarians in the pig's nest scandal? On the one hand, they work as official veterinarians, on the other hand they have a private ordination – in the same district! 48 veterinarians in Austria also have their private ordination in the same district in which they work as official veterinarians. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! There is a conflict of interest here. However, they have not used the possibility of eliminating this abuse by amending the Veterinary Act. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Skill You remember...?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2624	Mr Maier. Please do not go into the content debate now! It is about the issue of the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2640	The issue of the agenda is: [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: So do it briefly – and sit down!]] I believe that when we discuss the issue of the agenda, we need to be able to discuss it, Mr President, about what problems this is about. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No! This is not a contentious debate!]] And there are new aspects on which we also need to discuss, because they require an amendment to the agenda. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We invite you, together with us, to vote in favour of dissociating this item from the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2705	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2735	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In December, the Veterinary Medicines Control Act and the Drugs Import Act were dealt with and adopted in the Health Committee. In the presidency, the agenda for today was set unanimously, with the voice of the SPÖs and those of the Greens. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is really no link between the veterinary drug control law and the BSE case in the forest district! [[Abg. Oils: Of course!]] BSE is known to be a prion disease which currently cannot be treated with any medication. Therefore, the abuse of drugs cannot lead to this disease. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Veterinary control! It's about this one!]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the measures against BSE were discussed in detail yesterday. [[Contradict with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We have strict rules in this regard. [[Abg. But where, Mr Schwarzenberger?! In other parliaments maybe, but not here!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] All bovine animals over 30 months of age are controlled, each individual bovine animal is controlled. We burn the dangerous ingredients such as brain, spinal cord et cetera. We have a total ban on feeding animal meal – all measures to protect against BSE! The price is too high for shattering emotions in this matter! This spring we have already experienced the damage suffered by the workers in the meat industry, but also by the farmers. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You're risking jobs!]] I remind the representative of the Chamber of Workers Salzburg that after that, when jobs are at risk, you call for work foundations to alleviate social hardships for the workers. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You're risking jobs!]] So this should not be taken as an occasion to harm workers and farmers for the second time. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You're risking jobs!]] We are in favour of the implementation of the agenda, as in the President-in-Office's office, as it was unanimously decided – because a vote in the President's office was to be held a few days later in the plenary session. [[Abg. Oellinger: I believe you do!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The Antibiotic Schnitzerl in...!]] That is why we will not give our assent to this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2888	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e2909	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! As the health spokesperson of my party, I call on you to approach the objections that have been raised so far and to remove this point from the agenda. Mr Schwarzenberger! You have not completely told the truth in your statements today. In fact, you have put this draft for a veterinary medicinal product control law on the agenda of the Health Committee by means of an application pursuant to Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure because you, Mr Schwarzenberger, feared a wide discussion on this law. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But it has been treated!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There were the most massive objections to this veterinary drug control law in advance. And because you have been afraid that these objections will be dealt with intensively in committee, you have done so by accident. In view of the first BSE case, if you had only one spark, you, Mr Schwarzenberger, would be taking this item off the agenda. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Well, well, well! Manfred!]] [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Whoever has resistance, he is in keeping with agreements!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I just said what a great guy you are!]] Mr Schweitzer, with this veterinary drug control law, the farmer is almost appointed a veterinarian – and the consequences of this are foreseeable. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You were silent in the committee! No word in committee!]] Mr Pumberger! If even the Chamber of State of Veterinarians of Carinthia – that is, in the home country of your "great chairman" – has made massive objections to this law, then I cannot be very far away. It is clear, therefore, that this law will far exceed the fears we have. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You weren't on the list of speakers in the committee! You were stupid in the committee!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a health speaker, I say to you: It is already foreseeable that there will be no food safety guarantee for Austrian products in Austria, that the consequences in the field of ecology for soil and water will no longer be affordable, and that – which is particularly important to me as a health speaker – the increase in antibiotic resistance will be more or less on the agenda by this uncontrolled drug use. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: objection debate!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Take your heart and take this item from the agenda! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3048	Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3069	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are three clear, formal reasons why this item on the agenda should not be negotiated today. And, of course, there are many reasons for content. For formal reasons only, Minister: In December of last year there was the pig mast scandal. They promised a strict veterinary medicinal product transport law at the time. In August of this year, you then sent out a draft for a corresponding law on review. This review ran until October, but after that did not come what is common according to opinions, namely a government proposal, but a legislative request came into the health committee overnight. We are against this procedure already at the Health Committee meeting on 6 June. In December, a massive protest was made by an objection. So it was not the case that we took this up in the Health Committee! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the contrary: At the time, we put our concerns of formal nature and our concerns of content very clearly on the table, and you knew that! There is, however, another very important reason. In fact, within this short period of time when we are in possession of your legislative proposal in the form of this application, it has shown that your draft is probably not EU-compliant, as in this case EU Directive 90/167/EEC applies, which regulates the use of medicinal products in feed mixtures. However, you see in your draft law that the farmer, according to the farmer, according to his own mixing conditions recommended by the veterinarian, can mix the medicinal products themselves into the feed each time. [[Abg. Grandruck: How stupid do you think we are?]] I have obtained the EU Commission's control reports, which were on the road both in Austria and in Germany, in order to monitor the relevant measures in the pursuit of the pig mast scandal. In both cases, both in the report on Austria and in that on Germany, it has been repeatedly pointed out that this Directive 90/167/EEC is not adequately transposed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In that respect, there are not only formal and substantive reasons for removing this draft law from the agenda, but there is also an important legalist, I could even say: European political reason. Another aspect of formal nature: Their presentation contradicts, as experts of various provenances say, also the Animal Disease Act, because it provides that for the purpose of preventing disease vaccinations should only be carried out by skilled workers, i.e. by veterinarians, by the veterinarian. But now they also place the vaccination in the hands of the farmers. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But not with disease!]] Mr Schweitzer! You don't know yourself in this matter, but you know yourself at school. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I heard from an expert the following comparison: If we did the same in school as the Minister plans to do in the field of animal farming, then the school guards and teachers should and should immunise the students and give them antibiotics in the jause bread. [[Abg. Ahatz: such a fool!]] – This is a comparison that comes from the expert level! This has not grown on my dung, but I have veterinarians – experts! – said that this comparison is well justified. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think that in addition to the three formal reasons for weighty enough to take this law from today's agenda, your request in item 7 of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3155	I conclude the debate on the objections to the agenda. We shall come to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to take account of Mrs Petrovic's objections, that is to say, that the 7. The item on the agenda concerning the veterinary medicinal products control law is to be withdrawn from the agenda for a sign. – This is the minority, so rejected. This means that it remains on the agenda. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3195	I continue in the preparation of the meeting or the entry into the agenda and note that, in order to be able to negotiate items 11, 12 and 13 of today's agenda, according to § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure must be withdrawn from the 24-hour period of stay. These two proposals are the report of the Financial Committee on the request by Mr Böhacker, Dr. Stummvoll, colleagues on insurance supervision law, and on the reports by the Immunities Committee on the request of the District Court of Vienna for approval of the administrative persecution of Mrs Ridi Steiblund on the request by the Landesgerichts St. Pölten for approval of the administrative persecution of Mrs Mag. Johanna Mikl- Leitner. We need a two-thirds majority to do this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal to waive the 24-hour term of leave for a sign. – I note that this has been unanimously accepted. We shall therefore proceed in this way. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3238	With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, I refer to a written communication distributed in the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2870/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3310	Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that I have a short debate on the reply 2870/AB by Mr Sozialminister on the question 2897/J by Mr Dr. Gabriela Moserund comrades on criticism of the Austrian implementation of EU provisions on protection against BSE. [[Interlocutory calls at the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Business treatment!]] [[Abg. Kiss: This is always the same cheese! That's an outspoken piggy! What is there a presidential for?]] Mr Dr. Khol spoke on business. I'll give him this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3362	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the extraordinary design of today's day, on which President Anton Benya was adopted, we have agreed to an agenda under special circumstances. According to the agreement, the meeting should begin at 2 p.m. and all club members have committed themselves at the Presidential Conference to carry out neither urgent requests nor other special actions. – But this is such a special action. Mr President. I know very well that They have no other option but to allow this because such presidential agreements are not indictable and everyone retains his right to such a request. However, I would like to ask for a brief stand-by position so that the club members can hold a debate with you on this because I always felt that gentlemen are sitting in this House holding a gentlemen's agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3396	Also for business treatment: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3417	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Klubobmann Khol has just presented something as a result of the Presidency, which was not agreed in the Presidency. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: (in the direction of Green) Time thieves!]] He ruled, as far as I can remember, in the presidential agreement that none of the political groups on Thursday will make use of their right to a urgent request or a urgent request, because this is probably not to be reconciled with the expiry of this day and it would also be inappropriate to make a urgent request or a urgent request on Thursday. [[Call to the liberals:Aha!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser]] [[Abg. Kiss: (in the direction of Green) You are ugly character, really ugly character!]] There has been no debate in the Presidency on whether other instruments can or should be used.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3515	For business treatment: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3537	Mr President. High house! I too would like to express my astonishment and that of my group, because, of course, at the presidential meeting, we agreed on such a gentlemen's agreement, as is the custom of the President-in-Office. This will certainly also be possible to confirm Mr Cap. It is already significant if the person who was in this presidential and also made this agreement can no longer remember such a gentlemen's agreement. Those who cannot remember agreements are from the outset unbelievable. I find it really sad that the Green Group simply does not adhere to agreements reached in the Presidency. But that is also significant. You should get used to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3573	Mr. Dr. Cap, do you still want to speak, or are we going to do the presidial? Please, Mr Cap, on business.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3594	I just want to say: It doesn't deserve the strong words. But it's true: We have agreed in the presidency that we do not start any special actions of a special kind here in the sense of today; certainly as far as the urgent ones are concerned. I would ask that we do this with a normal choice of words and not with expressions like "generate" and similar attacks. I don't think that's in place. But in principle it is that there has been this agreement in the presidential.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3628	I would like to interrupt the meeting briefly and ask the members of the Bureau, including Mr Fassleven, to come to me. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 14.41 a.m. and resumed at 14.47 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3655	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. We have expressed our opinion on this matter. It is not exactly clear whether there is on one side or on the other there is a misunderstanding about the course of the conversation. However, I have allowed myself to give up this action just today, to the Green Group's sincere request, so that we can all say good consciences that any agreement, if it has come about, will in no way be respected. I would like to thank the Green Group for having found a consensus there. This request for a short debate, in agreement with all participants, is therefore deemed to be withdrawn. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] – The applause was certainly well meant, but even on it we want to give up today in consensus. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3708	I would like to sum up the debate on points 1 and 2 and 6 to 10 of the agenda. – There is no objection. We shall therefore proceed in this way. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3733	We are now going into the agenda. In the Presidential Conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates as follows: A day block time of 6 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 117 minutes, Freedom and ÖVP per 87 minutes, Green 69 minutes. The National Council is to be found on this issue. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. This is then deemed to be a unanimous decision. 1. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (872 of the Supplements): Federal Act, which amends a Federal Law on the Training, Activities and Profession of the Sanitaries and amends the Federal Law on the Regulation of the Medical and Technical Service and of the Medical Assistance Services, the Retention Act and the Hospital Working Time Act (930 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report and request of the Health Committee on the draft Federal Act amending the ASVG (931 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3788	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no need for reporting, so we are going into the debate at once. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. He proposed a voluntary speaking time of 8 minutes and is authorized to give a shorter speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e3815	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Agenda item 1 is actually exactly the opposite to Agenda item 7: That would not be the right thing to do, but, in fact, for years, the inclusion of this item on the agenda. However, the ÖVP has prevented this for many years, and therefore my speech will be somewhat critical, although the SPÖ will agree to this law of sanity. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Look!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is a lot to be said and something to be remembered. – In principle: Who is not in favour of a reform when it comes to the training and activities of rescuers, of medicaments, especially as there is a dramatic development of emergency and disaster medicine? Of course, staff qualifications play a particularly crucial role, and it is generally known for years that the state of law no longer meets the current requirements in terms of content and expertise. There has been a unanimous decision in the Health Committee. The media, of course, also deal very intensively with such topics, and it says here: [[Keeping up a newspaper article]] "Agreement to the Sanitary Law is about to be reached", "No threat to honor through new training regulations". This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a big headline from yesterday, from last week, from last month, no, but from 21. ==References== I repeat: "Agreement to the Sanitary Law is about to be reached", "No threat to honor through new training regulations". Ladies and gentlemen! What has happened since February 1999? [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Why is something only happening today? – The legislative text is practically unchanged, there are marginal cuts in the theoretical training for sanitizers. Ladies and gentlemen! In February 1999, the election campaign began, and the ÖVP, in particular Klubobmann Khol, has proclaimed the civil society, which is honorary. The mature law of sanity was actually a good vehicle at that time. This picture has been used to address the issue of volunteering. The wrong things have been spread to the public, namely, that hundreds of millions of extra costs are needed and that volunteering will collapse in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Incredible!]] I have the proof, ladies and gentlemen, that once again it was reserved to speak of 190 million Schilling extra costs in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Vienna has the last...!]] In fact – and this is the proof, colleague Rasinger –: 6 million Schilling additional costs in Lower Austria, in the case of a virtually unchanged bill. This is proof of ideologically colored panic and Party-politically motivated prevention of the Sanitary Law in 1999. [[Abg. Edlinger: How was that?]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the Civil Society – I have the bowl plan of the ÖVP club of 5th century. May 1999 in front of me –: We, the EIA, want to re-enforce subsidiarity and solidarity. – Subsidiarity, ladies and gentlemen? Post Offices, District Courts and Gender Army Posts. It goes on to say: The ÖVP promotes the honorary office. – The only thing that has come about is a law for orders. And: The ÖVP forms communities and countries close to citizens. – Close to citizens, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's ridiculous!]] The only thing that has become close to citizens are the quarries and gravel pits, where the protection zones have been reduced from 300 to 100 meters. This is the only thing that is close to the citizen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What, my Ladies and gentlemen, is now the price of this failed ideology in the rescue sector? – To date, main-professional saviors are still in the status of an auxiliary worker. – You too, Mr Steibl, have a responsibility here. To this day, the rescue organizations are comforted. Life rescuers still stand at a foot in the courtroom today. I quote "The Press" of 10. December 2001: At the Austrian Red Cross, "of course, one dements 'illegal' practices of the sanitizers, but admits that there would have been 'a massive problem' by doing so." It also says: "Up to 4,000 people would die each year in Austria because the rescuers were too little trained." Ladies and gentlemen! What is left of this citizen society in 1999? – Orders, orders, that is the only, and outraged citizens and angry mayors who cannot afford the balding in the regions, the infrastructure. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We want to re-enforce solidarity and subsidiarity, the EIA has said. Under "Subsidiarity" They restrict the supply of services and "solidarity" the burden of the sick, the socially vulnerable and the victims of accidents. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Miedl]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ will agree to the law on health care, but massively reject your kind of civil society! Ladies and gentlemen! There is another reason why this decision is only possible today, after half the legislative period: I think there is a lack of concentration on health issues in the ministries. There is a cabinet chief in the health resort, who also operates a private practice. Dr. Hrabcik has a practice in the neck, nose and ear – please, this is the chief of the cabinet in the health ministry! – and if you call there, you can find out, colleague Rasinger, that on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday from 15.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. and Wednesday and Saturday after registration is ordination. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: You, this is the Rescue Anity Act! That's a thematic mistake! Herbs, thematic failure! Not enough!]] In urgent cases, Dr. Hrabcik can also be reached outside the time of ordination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] And this man is the chief of the cabinet in the health resort at the same time?- Oh, my God! – Mr Rasinger, how can we stand this as the health speaker of a parliamentary party? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. President! On the matter!]] [[Further calls.]] In urgent cases, ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Hrabcik can be reached at any time for patients. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not about colleague Hrabcik!]] Do you know, Mr Westenthaler, what an urgent case would be? – If one were to look after the unfortunate cancer patients of Austria, who are affected by a thyroid cancer, and would finally organize and finance a thyrogen treatment for them! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] For years these patients have been sent to the circle. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Last-class! Finish! Sit down!]] You too, Mr Westenthaler, bear responsibility in this matter. I would ask you, Minister, to deliver an opinion on how you deal with these cancer patients. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sit in the last row and be quiet! Sit down!]] In total and in summary, Mr Westenthaler and Mr. Khol, first of all, a yes to the law on health care, but a no to secondary cabinet heads of this federal government; and second, to the civil society of Mr. Khol already a no! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He speaks the whole talk by the topic!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4075	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. I'd like to put the clock at 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4097	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I'd like to get to the point. Today, we are finally coming to the decision-making of the law of the sanity, long-awaited and demanded by the voluntary rescue organizations, by the state-recognised rescue organizations. This is important, and I would like to go into it immediately. Ladies and gentlemen! How important such an emergency law is, we have now seen: Herbs forget who has blocked the law for years: It was the SPÖ – I'm still coming back to it. Petrovic controls the self-medication of animals in the veterinary medicinal product control law. – This is only known to me by the people so far. Mrs Moser asked by Mr Moser Federal Minister Head of State, in any case, a "Tierariz medicament transport law" – a law that regulates the transport of veterinary medicinal products. It's completely new to me, too. Ladies and gentlemen! On these three examples, we see how important the training of the emergency worker is, and that is why we will adopt this law today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The UN has proclaimed 2001 as the "Year of Volunteers", and this is primarily the subject of this law. The Sanitary Law provides for regulations for volunteers and, above all, for voluntary service in the field of rescue transport services. Now, after a long struggle, it has succeeded that the voluntaryity, the voluntaryity, is not at risk. Of course, we can boost quality, and it is also very important that quality is improved – this is also provided for by improving training in this law – because emergency and disaster medicine has changed in such a way in recent years, has been modernised and improved that the first helper in the accident site must be able to do much more than it used to be. The essential emergency measures must be put in place already on the spot, at the site of the accident. Therefore, this training system is very important, the module system in which we offer everything we can: that the emergency sufferer can also prepare and attach infusions, that he can breathe and incubate, that there is also a model if he wants to become a professional anity, that he needs to be recertified every two years – it has to be checked whether the medicamenter has his skills at all, and it has to be trained. The law also lays down a commitment to continuing and continuing education for medicaments intended to comply with modern health care, so that patients, Austrians and anyone else who is harmed in Austria can rely on the first aid of a well-trained medicament. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Zernatto.]] I'll tell you who delayed the law. A year ago, there was consensus that we could have passed the law at least a year ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] But there is the SPÖ Vienna and its health councillor Pittermann, who is very difficult with her predecessor, the former health city councillor Rieder. Although there is a budget of 30 billion schilling in Vienna for health, it has given up this project because of 7 million schilling, i.e. only 4 million schilling, because it is known by Mr Rasinger, because it is Vienna, because of 4 million schilling that the city of Vienna had to do to improve the care of patients in the event of an emergency. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: It was four!]] The reason for this was that the SPÖ of this Federal Government has not granted the success of this law of sanity, which is so important. That's to be deeply condemned! City councillor Rieder is really exposed to our vehement criticism here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It threatened the lives of hundreds of people, directly at risk, because the training of emergency workers was delayed by one year. If you read the newspapers, you know exactly what's going on in a year. I would also like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, how important it is that the emergency workers are also legally insured. This law states that volunteers can also enjoy the protection of statutory accident insurance. This is very important, we have just put it into this law. It is also important that the pension scheme of rescuers is also included. And because there are changes here, this must, of course, be regulated accordingly in the ASVG. In order to avoid any difficulties in interpreting the pension rights of the medicaments in the future and to avoid misinterpreting expenses for one-off payments, and also the development of pensions in general, in particular, but above all justified and guaranteed for the medicaments, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Oils: That's incredible! That's your way!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Silhavy: This is your concept of democracy!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You see that the Minister of Health, who is also the Minister of Social Affairs, not only provides for the pensions of the medicaments in good time, but also with this amendment that we will decide today – in the majority, at the best, unanimously – to ensure that the right steps are taken in time to ensure pension rights. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I thank you once again. We know that only the Austrian Red Cross has 30 000 volunteers – 30 000! I thank you from this point of view for the fact that so many people in Austria are willing to do so without asking for a schilling, under a lot of hardships and with a lot of risk that they have to take on, voluntarily, volunteerly to perform the service at their nearest place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4227	Mr Oellinger spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4248	Mr President. High house! With this amendment by the government parties, we experience what it means when an opposition party is willing to make a concession and not make use of its right, as we did before. Mr President. I would ask you to have a stand-alone examination of this situation. The government parties only reached the Committee by means of a GOG proposal, i.e. an amendment to the fact that a debate on the matter of ASVG took place in the Committee and it was added as a GOG proposal. In the Committee itself, it was clear that this does not mean and is linked to a proposal for a pension adjustment, as Mr Pumberger has now put it. Mr Pumberger is here presenting us with an amendment on this GOG proposal, which was adopted and decided on in committee, which is intended to take a massive part in the existing pension law and to be decided in the context of a debate on the Sanitary Law. For the second time, we are experiencing the abuse of a parliamentary instrument. We should discuss the Sanitary Act here, but now we need to discuss the pension adjustment as an opposition. I consider this process to be incredible and, in fact, an abuse of a right that Parliament has and is supposed to have, of course, but in a context of which the President – exactly the President whom we have spoken about – was the last time that the applications made through GOG were also to be examined. In fact, a practice has developed which may make it necessary to decide, in the context of a clean examination by Parliament, a legal examination, how this practice should be continued, by means of GOG applications, to introduce amendments here. I do not think it is feasible that, after what took place yesterday, when a debate on economic and employment introduced an BSE debate, this debate should be discussed and decided within the framework of a law on health care and without debate in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4286	Ladies and gentlemen! You know that I usually try not to interrupt meetings too often, but to make the decisions myself. But after I have accepted a request for interruption a few minutes ago, I do not want to raise the appearance of different standards. I would like to interrupt the sitting briefly and ask once again the four political representatives, plus the Presidents present in the Chamber, to come to me. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 15.09 a.m. and resumed at 15.16 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4316	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. I do not want to explain in detail the complexity of the subject, namely the question of the extent to which such an amendment to an § 37 proposal allows proper preparation for an important matter. Mr Oellinger asked that this request be withdrawn. The government parties have found that this is not possible at the present time, since the year is ending and they have to seek a decision by the end of the year. In formal terms, I therefore declare this request admissible. It is also sufficiently supported. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4368	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would also like to welcome the guests of the Red Cross. I don't know if the volunteer helpers we owe a lot to whom the patients have a lot to thank, know what it's really about. Mr Pumberger, you have said that they will be reviewed every two years. [[Abg. Weekly countries: We have nothing against volunteering at all!]] However, doctors will not – you have forgotten to say that. [[Abg. Weekly countries: This is a bit different study!]] Thus, the law is very good and its quality, compared to others – we are both health speakers – even better. I admit that. But did you also know that this was massively abused? – Mr Pumberger has told you who here in the house the good and who the bad, who the healthy and who the sick are. He wants to have the ASVG and the adaptation of pensions, which will now regulate them down and all pensioners get less money, decided by this law at your expense. I think that this law is, in principle, extremely unworthy, and that has a relatively little to do with health, as you have mentioned. So if you need an emergency aneist in your ways of action, I leave this answer to the visitors at the gallery. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is quite clear that progress in medicine, of course, did not stop before disaster medicine and before emergency medicine, that the previous standards and the previous training system had to be adapted to this. There is no doubt at all. Much is already happening at the site of acute events before patients are in the hospital. These minutes or hours before patients arrive at the hospital are often of vital, life-saving importance, in which it can often be prevented from serious, permanent damage. That's not a question. The current rules should therefore be amended. Why did it take so long? Why wasn't that easy? – Because there were different interests! There were probably jealousys from other professional groups that had to be upgraded and cleared. I believe that the Ministry and the officials working there really needed all the strength and all the negotiating skills to take this step now, saying that the first drafts for quality assurance for those concerned and for everyone else would probably have been even better. But it was no longer inside, and as a first step you have to let it go. - We will agree. The problems lie in the fact that, of course, volunteering also includes the question of what can be expected of volunteers in this Republic. How much time can they still invest in training, quality assurance, training and training? – To make this space between quality assurance and usability is not easy. However, I also have to say critically that although this voluntaryity is extremely positive for the patients – that is to say, it is highly valued by the volunteers – it has, of course, also positive sides for the employer and for the financial officer of the Red Cross, which – I say something unprotected – is not necessarily the poorest organization in Austria. So it was necessary to make sure that what they do is also honoured that something is available to them and not just a alms are given. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, with all the support of this positive first step, it must also be said that the present situation in terms of quality assurance in the European comparison is more likely to be the lower third. It must also be added that the profitability of training and the possibilities for a changeover, for accounting for other professions and for a rise in my opinion have become somewhat too thin. I very much hope for the second step. In my opinion, there was not enough differentiation between purely transport activities and the use of emergency medical measures. The use of medicines is also somewhat vague, and data protection is also a problem: It is said that the obligation to remain silent towards other sources of costs would be abolished. - Who are they? I think you should be careful. The fact that it was discussed in advance whether women and men who did not complete their compulsory schooling would also be allowed to take part in the discussion shows which lobbys have partly argued against your profession. You should be careful here. 100 hours of theory sounds a lot. But these are a total of two and a half weeks for the training of a "normal" nurse or a "normal" medicament. This results in seven and a half hours per subject – 13 subjects are taught in the first module. Anyway: I wish you every success with this law, as I believe, right. Please note with us that a second step should be taken in your interest and in the interests of patients! We'll be careful, and I hope that then we don't have to re-regulate pensions for all ASVG officers for your law down. Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[15:24]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4440	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I announce that Mr. Dr. Jarolim, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigative committee to clarify the allegations relating to the transmission of police data to third parties, to clarify the allegations relating to the removal of the current procedure, to clarify the allegations relating to the termination of certain procedures and to examine the legal and political responsibilities. The debate on this has not been requested. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall vote on this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry after completion of today's agenda. I would ask you to take note of this. Mr Rasinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4470	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Each one of us can suddenly become an emergency victim. A few months ago, Salzburg's country president Dr. Schreiner collapsed in the middle of a meeting. We all know how it went: Unfortunately, he died. We're talking today about a law that's in decisive minutes – and that's about minutes! – to prevent death or consequential damage. Deputies of herbs! I therefore do not think it appropriate for you to start a discussion here suddenly about a cabinet chief, while today, together with you, we decide on a law whose preparation began 40 years ago. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: But that's important!]] I am not here to thank Mrs Hostasch and Mr Löschnak for her preliminary work. We were almost finished two years ago, I was negotiating with Minister Hostasch. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Child care!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] But They're making history falsification: Do you know who withdrew the objection as the latter, Mr. Deputies of Herbs? You know that? You don't listen! It was the city of Vienna – because of 4 million schilling! It was the city of Vienna! But you're pretending that the ÖVP was the big obstacle. Secondly, you're making fun of the honorary office. – Yes, we are proud that there is also a substantial amount of cooperation here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am not saying: only volunteers, because we are grateful that we also have very good principal officials. But without the volunteers, the Austrian Rescue and Sanity system would not lead. [[Abg. Silhavy: No one has made the honorous office ridiculous, but the religious award!]] Deputies of herbs! It does not benefit from the best law, if there is no one in the van – 365 days a year, 24 hours a day, under the most difficult conditions. After all, you have forgotten this outrageously about the ÖVP's being in favor of the Honorary Office. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: What about the civilians?]] This Save Anity Act brings us overall to the world's top. It is the end of a long series of right decisions. Already under Löschnak, the emergency medical system in Austria was significantly expanded. The emergency car system was also thought and introduced across the board. Deputies of herbs! For this we are grateful to him today. If you had been involved in the story, you could have mentioned the minister of your party. I am also grateful for the introduction of the emergency helicopter system under Löschnak in Austria. It is also to be thanked for all those who have started the excellent accident surgical care in the hospitals and brought them to this high level. Thank you, because we can only say calmly today – ten or 20 years later – through these decisions, we have a world-class system. This law to be adopted today will continue to help us in an important area. All in all, we don't need to generate at all. Emergency work is teamwork. Therefore, as a doctor, I am not at all disturbed by the fact that, after training, emergency ananers receive additional skills in the area of infusion, medication, defibrillation, breathing or intubation. Anyone who knows what an emergency means knows that in case of an emergency, nothing can be done without teamwork. This is not about disputes of competence, but about three minutes, which decide on the life of each individual. I therefore believe that we can be proud of this law. From my point of view, it is a selfish law, because it helps us and probably thousands of Austrians. This law will surely save human lives. In any case, we from the ÖVP are very proud of and very grateful for the great help provided by all in the Austrian rescue industry, especially under the most difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4570	There is a desire for actual correction. Mr Herzegovina. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4595	My predecessor, Mr Rasinger, claimed that I had made the honorary office ridiculous in my speech. [[Call the ÖVP: Not the first time at the SPÖ!]] Ladies and gentlemen! True is rather: I have said that the prize for the failed ideology of civil society in the rescue sector is that to this day, main-professional saviors stand in the status of auxiliary workers, that the rescue organizations have been comforted to this day, and that life rescuers still stand in the courtroom with one foot to this day. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is not a correction! Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is not an actual correction!]] I said that, and the ÖVP is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4654	I should now like to ask the Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4675	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that today's decision-making under the Redemption Act and under a multi-annual debate, which I believe has led to a good compromise, will be concluded. I give right to all previous speakers who have meant that the Austrian Rescue – no matter what organization – is only possible, because we unite honor and professionalism under one roof and create no contrast between volunteers and principal professionals. I should also like to ask that we keep the eye on the fact that the negotiations have actually been over a period of change for more than a year, but the implementation has been postponed to this day due to the opposition of two federal states after the consultation mechanism. Mr. Dr. Herbs! I ask you not to overlook the fact that the last federal state to withdraw its reservation on the basis of the consultation mechanism was no other than Vienna. [[Abg. Huber: And before the Steiermark!]] – The Styria has withdrawn its reservation three months before, the state of Vienna was the last. I am very grateful to Mayor Häupl for withdrawing this reservation from the state of Vienna on the occasion of the opening of the renovated rescue building of the Vienna Rescue Society and thus opening the way for this law to be adopted here today in the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that here is a meaningful symbiosis from what someone is allowed to do, who has learned the health profession, and what is reserved exclusively for academically trained doctors. There is a clear separation between studies and other training, which we will then discuss under Agenda item 7 under more intense accompanying music than now under Agenda item 1, in which there is broad agreement. In my opinion, however, it is unmistakable that one is willing to leave skills that were originally reserved for academic training to people with non-academic training after appropriate training and with appropriate qualifications so that they can help and become effective in the public. I would also like to express my express thanks to someone who is not sitting in plenary, but at least at the National Council's guest gallery, namely Mr. Universitätsprofessor, Dr. Petüschnig, who has accompanied this law for months and years, and whom I would like to thank very much for starting training under the new law in Graz, while we have discussed here in the National Council when this law finally comes into effect. – A warm thank you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we have thus put a final line under a debate which, despite the old Austrian mentality, has been transferred to an objective and proper debate and finally dealt with by each profession in its own capacity until the end of the day. I would also like to have a debate on the other items of the agenda today.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4719	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4740	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you for your factual statements on the law on health care, which is also on the agenda. But I am surprised that you did not comment on the request made by Mr Pumberger – but perhaps you have missed the words – because you are using a partial aspect of an ASVG novel to take away another 1.6 billion schilling from the pensioners in the future. Today, you have not found any factual words on how you actually justify that you cut away two million pensioners in this country, who have been massively burdened by your policy, en passant – at the edge of a discussion on the Sanitary Law – simply and simply again cut away 1.6 billion schillings, which you then prove to be "surpassing" for the following years. Federal Minister! What's happening here is a scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] I do not know if you really know the income development of Austrian pensioners. You have massive purchasing power losses to suffer. It is precisely the elderly people in our country who are affected by your non-social burden policy, in the area of pension insurance. Today you continue this course of pension cuts, which you plan to continue and even aggravate it in reality. In the field of pension insurance, you have de facto removed a volume of 53 billion schilling from the pensioners in the last two years. These were benefits that are important for the elderly in Austria and which they also need. There is massive deterioration in pensions; I am thinking, for example, of the abolition of early retirement pensions in the event of reduced employment. There are many people who are driven into unemployment by your measures. Federal Minister! When I think about the aggravation in early retirement pensions – this is a massive pension reduction for many – when I think of the reduction of widowing and widowing when I think of the deterioration in disability pension, I have to say that you have taken the older generation massively by your non-social measures, to which you do not find any factual words here today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But it is this short-term course of the Federal Government, which does not end, and which itself is continued by the Sanitary Act, and it is also the cuts in the health field. Especially older people need the health system to a special extent. What did you do in this area? – You are more and more discussing self retention and the fact that those who are older and sick are being asked by you to register. You have massively increased the prescription fees. They have massively increased the hospital charges. They have introduced completely absurd measures such as the non-social ambulance fee. Federal Minister! I wonder, How can you face the elderly at all? Or do you switch over the seniors' taxpayers only ads and distribute incorrect information? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But of course your burden policy also has other consequences: Not only do older people feel it every day in their wallets, it is of course also driving inflation up through these stress shocks. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Rescue Anity Law!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Pension Increase 1997: Zero Schilling!]] – I know that this is an unpleasant topic. Getting the pensioners the money out of the bag is an unpleasant thing, but you have to answer it! And the drive of inflation, of course, leads to a much lower purchasing power. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: We're talking about the rescue law!]] Mr Pumberger, you have no problem! You will receive the Christmas gifts for your family, Mr. Rasinger, and you will be able to afford them. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: I'm the Rasinger!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: (on p. That's the Rasinger!]] But do you know that many seniors actually have difficulties, for example – if it is as cold as today – to pay the heating costs? They are also unable to introduce a single national heating aid. People would need it because you burden these people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The average pension for women is 9 240 S, Dr. Rasinger! Live once a month of 9 240 S! And there's a cut. You permanently have the pensions – even today you will have the opportunity to do so. This is a non-social and heartless policy that you are pursuing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: You're at the wrong wedding!]] Federal Minister! For us Social Democrats, this burden rate and this pension reduction rate do not come into question, and we will not allow ourselves to see that you make massive pension cuts here. We therefore call on you to adapt pensions at least in such a way that inflation is paid for. This is not a pension increase yet, it is an inflation tax. I think that the pensioners in Austria who have built this country deserved to be treated fairly with them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is only a matter of dealing fairly with the older generation, and therefore I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Go with the older generation and agree! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4910	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bures on the adjustment of pensions at least with the inflation rate is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4934	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, Mrs Bures, on this subject, which is also the subject of the amendment, I have held a multi-hour debate in the Federal Council on the basis of a urgent request - to clarify this once. [[Abg. Huber: Are we in the Federal Council?]] Secondly, you know that the 2000 pension adjustment amounted to between 0.6 and 2.5 percent and was already included in the 2001 pension adjustment opinion at 1.1 percent. This procedure of the then Commission for Pension Adjustment was carried out by all pensioners' associations. For the 2002 pension adjustment, the 2000 opinion included the smooth adjustment of 1.1 percent and the calculation of the pension adjustment. More recently, due to a dispute over this point in March of this year, pensioners' associations at the time no longer considered that the 2000 pension adjustment should be based on 1.1 percent. I am therefore interested in creating a verifiable legal basis for the older generation with regard to the important instrument of pension adjustment, which will also be the basis for challenges et cetera in all Austrian courts, as is usual in a rule of law. You know very well, Mrs Bures – and your group leader in the Federal Council has also done so – that the current opinion and the adjustment of pensions on the basis of a decision by the Ministry in the current situation of the rule of law would not or would only be appropriate for clarification before the Constitutional Court because, with 1.1 percent in the opinion, the revision of the pension is not the subject of the legal opinion as a whole and not at all the subject of the decision, but only one part of the legal opinion. I therefore believe that this amendment creates a clear legal basis, which also provides access to all the possibilities of the rule of law, so that pensioners, the older generation you have adopted, have a legal basis that is soothing for them. And I say something very clearly, Mrs Bures: The 1.1 percent adjustment of the year 2000 means a clear improvement for all those who are now in active employment, i.e. those who today pay the pensions according to the generation contract, with regard to the pensions they will receive once. - So far, so good. I therefore believe that, from the point of view of the rule of law, and also from the point of view of the opinions, the appropriate application makes it clear that it is urgently necessary to give the older generation more security. One more thing, Mrs Bures: The current pension adjustment for the year 2000, as it has been done in the course of the regulation, will bring a full inflation rate of 2.9 percent to all those who urgently need it – and many of them from the founding generation. It will bring 84.5% of pensioners a pension adjustment, which is in the range of up to 1.6%. I therefore believe that we have achieved the objective of this change in pensions, which is also your group – and even Mr Blecha! – has always formulated in the public, taking particular account of the lowest and the lowest incomes. I should also like to point out that the full rate of inflation of 2.9 percent will be paid to the compensation beneficiaries, which is not only good, but also vital for many of these ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4985	Mr Arbitrator spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5007	Mr President. I know that in a normal debate without the use of other parliamentary instruments, it is not possible to get a certain answer from a minister, and he has answered some points. But that in this reply he does not answer points with the reference, he has already answered in the Federal Council and that should be known by Members, that is, please, a procedure which is not acceptable!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5045	An application has not been submitted. I give the floor to Mrs Magistrate. Hartinger. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5070	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Bures, who has pursued heartless policies here, that was you, that was your group! Look The pension increases are: In 1996, the increase in pensions was zero, 1997 was zero, 1998 was 1.3 per cent and 1999 was 1.5 per cent! Our government has now increased pensions as part of the inflation rate, especially for the weak and the average pensioners – what your senior speaker calls for. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And that's 54 percent of the pensions – maybe you don't know, Mrs. Colleague. And just one sidestep to colleagues herbs: If you say that the patients are being sent to the circle, please contact "our" Councillor in Styria, to the Landesrat Dörflinger of your group! Complain there, not here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now I want to come to the law of the sanity. Ladies and gentlemen! I am delighted that we are also contributing to security in Austria. Yesterday we had a big discussion about security and today about the law on the health care. Ladies and gentlemen! A functioning rescue is part of a personal sense of security in a country. People in Austria rightly expect, if they need help, to receive them in good time. For an emergency patient, active lay aid is first vital – and there each of us is required – and the rapid arrival of the rescue service is the second expectation of the emergency patient. The rescue services network is closely connected, and WHO aid periods from 15 to 20 minutes can at least be met for 80 percent of those affected in Austria – in Sweden for 85 percent. But we're on the right track. As a third point, the patient is expected to receive qualified care, which is guaranteed by the high level of training and by the commitment and now also by this law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The emergency expertise that the medicamenter receives through this legal regulation to implement life-saving measures such as intubation and defibrillation does not replace an emergency doctor; I would also like to maintain that. These are purely for stabilisation. But where do you need lifesaving measures? Just a few numbers: 9 000 heart attacks per year; 50 percent die within the first 15 minutes. 20 000 strokes per year; 20 percent die, 40 percent stay disabled. An Austrian dies on the street every eight hours. The first minutes are crucial, many of you will confirm this to me, especially Professor Petüschnig. And after three quarters of an hour, every third accident victim dies. Apart from the quality of life for the individual with timely assistance, the provision in the hospitals for good and qualified first-aided patients is also much easier and could reduce the length of the stay by 10 percent. Maybe we should consider that too. Ladies and gentlemen! It is often explained in the case of necessary measures why something is not going on, why something is not feasible. There are excuses like: That's a state law, that's a federal law, because we're not responsible, because this one or that one is responsible for why something doesn't happen. Ladies and gentlemen! This law also proves: Steter drop hollows the stone wherever the stone may be.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5151	Mr Dietachmayr spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please observe the speaking time of 2 minutes and the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5175	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Hartinger has just said that in recent years pensions have not been increased to the extent and not at all in 1996. I actually have to correct them; I have the exact numbers here: Pensions increased by 10.29 percent between 1995 and 2000, while the consumer price index increased by only 9.2 percent over the same period. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Call every year!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: What was 1996 and what 1997?]] So there has been an actual increase in pensions, and there must have been a great deal of entertainment, otherwise you would not be recalculating this overjoy with the measure to be decided on today, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5230	I am the next speaker to be Mrs Huber's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5265	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I am actually very glad that after the years of negotiations, consensus was found, but on the basis of the smallest common denominator, for the Sanitary Law.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5286	Mrs Huber! I have to calm down Mr Leikam first. [[Abg. May. Trattner: He didn't do anything anyway, the Leikam!]] He's calmed down now. – Now I ask you to continue your speech!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5313	Nevertheless, I think it was a step in the right direction, but I am convinced that more must follow. It is undisputed that better training and thus more quality and skills in initial care – which has already been mentioned several times – enables rescuers to help quickly and professionally and thus save lives. Because a very essential pillar of our life-saving is the approximately 41,000 volunteer helpers, I would like to thank these people once again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's just a simple thank you, but it's a thank you for people who are willing to be there day out, day out for others. And it is not natural to use our own free time, sometimes even your own safety or your own health, no matter if those who need help are black or white, young or old, poor or rich. I think our society could need more people who are not indifferent to the next, to help people who also have an eye for the need of the other person and who are willing to help. It's just not high enough to be estimated. I ask – because I see here at the top of the gallery the representatives of the workers-Samariter-Bund and the Red Cross – to pass on this thanks to the Socialist Group to all the helpers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has already been suggested that, in the current system of rescue, chief medicaments are still auxiliary workers and the life rescuers are in prison with one foot when they save lives. This law is a remedy, and I am very glad that it comes about, because often a rescue aneist is at the place, but not an emergency doctor. It is often about minutes when the necessary life-saving measures need to be put in place in order to bring the person concerned back to life. Therefore, the expansion of the competences of the saviors is important. However, this requires the necessary technical training, both theoretically and practically. The question of how much additional training, how much extra time can these voluntary saviors still be expected? I think that this law has tried to resolve this tension between the one hand and the other, the quality of the aid. However, I find it extremely unfortunate that we are now making a new law, creating a new profession, but that there is not even a professional protection for this profession. I believe that this is also a step to be taken into account in a forthcoming innovation. The Red Cross has written in the review, with comparatively low costs compared to high medical, human and financial benefits. – Therefore, the further improvement of the law must not fail in money! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5382	The next speaker is Mr Zernatto. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5412	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It follows, Mr Toni, not the mission of the head of state, but a speech by Mr Zernatto, who actually meant, when he saw this item on the agenda, that the dramaturgy of the discussion on this item is a premise that it would be a common path to argue a joint decision here and to do what the colleague has just done, namely to thank those who are ultimately recipients of this law. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: pension cuts!]] Dr. Herbs, because you have reported again with an intermediate call: Without having any requests, you were the one who used his appearance to spit poison and galle in all directions here instead of finding the words that your colleague found very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Steibl: But he didn't report to the committee! He's been silent there!]] This citizen society, which you have not presented in very comprehensible words for me today, is an extraordinaryly essential thing. Her colleague has rightly pointed out how much is done by the volunteers here in respect of work, on commitment. I am pleased that this is also recognised in the area of the Social Democratic Party. Finally, it is no coincidence that this year 2001 is the "year of volunteers", and this is not about orders, Dr. Herbs, but about recognition to those who are willing to work for the public. It is about showing them that society is very well aware when someone is willing to make use of it beyond his obligations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to go into the details right now. What has been said here is right: that many of the members of the rescue services have already been partially active beyond their legal competences, at their own risk of saving human lives. And I would also like to say a very personal thank you for this, because I will now tell you – and this will leave some of his party-political polemics on the lips – a small, very personal story: It's been about ten years since I was on a ski trip with my wife in Italy. A shaver pushed her down the slopes and she remained lying with serial rib breaks, with a vertebral injury and many other injuries that eventually made a stay at the intensive care station of more than a week necessary. It was very quickly a very young, very ambitious, but obviously incompetent mountain rescuer who wanted to lead my wife to the valley with these injuries with an Akja over a bumple track 12 kilometers. That is why I am saying thank you today because by chance – and I do not know if it was a volunteer volunteer or an official employee of the Red Cross, the Austrian Red Cross – someone has come by and caused the intervention planned not to take place, but to the proper storage of my wife. He also had the number of the helicopter and caused my wife to receive the best possible supply in the shortest time. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not, in my view, a totally inappropriate political polemic in this context, which ultimately interests the people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why I would like to return to the dramaturgy that I see fit, and I would like to thank all of them, the chief officials, the approximately 40 000 volunteers in our country, who provide 12 million hours of work a year, and, in order to save the taxpayer some 3.2 billion schilling, for this, so that the business administrators can also come to their account.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5488	The next speaker was Mr Lacner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5509	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Zernatto, it is a bit strange: You've got a few memory gaps there. They were, as far as I know, at this time, 1999 the head of state in Carinthia, and as much as I know, even at that time, the heads of state of the ÖVP did not necessarily help to prevent the decision-making of this law, to which it comes today, which is unanimous. Only as much as a start to my speech, Mr Zernatto, my dear colleague, so that your memory gaps can be closed again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But as has already been said, Mr Zernatto, it will be decided after a longer period of preparation to formulate this effort, this non-essential law in the interests of the rescue organizations and those who are there today – of course also with the votes of the opposition parties, because I am convinced that this is the first step in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen! However – and this should not remain unmentioned – I also know the long history of the emergence of this rescue anity law very well, because I too was very long concerned with it. Unfortunately, we have no longer achieved it, and You know exactly why we only decide this law today. You have now presented a slightly down-level version of our legislative paper here today for decision-making, which we of course like to follow without breaking into jubilation, Mrs Povysil, because of course – and as a doctor you know only too well – many areas are still open. I would like to refer to some of them today. There are probably still problems – and Mr Grünewald has already suggested it – in the administration of medicines. There's still a lot to be clear about. And by its lack of permeability, the Sanitary Act runs the risk of becoming a dead end-to-end profession in the health profession, as the training content of course has extremely specific references to activity. I could bring some other examples. I hope that you will be so determined to work with us on this law in order to extend it to those things that should actually be included in this law in the interest of those who are to be saved, that is, the patient. Mr Pumberger, I should like to say a few small replicas on your speech. I can remind you: They were one of those who came here in 1999... – or Mrs. Povysil, it was the one who tabled this request, a motion for a resolution based on our law. There's something more you want. I understand. You're in the government now, and you've got to make some slight marks because you've had to realize for the first time that the trees don't grow up in the sky. We were already confronted with it at the time, and it is you today. That's just to make the church stay in the village, my colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: A self-employed application was that! You have rejected your own request!]] We rejected him at the time just as you would have to reject him now and we have to bring another one, because you are in the coalition with the ÖVP. I don't think I have to mention that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These little games are not so good. By the way, Dr. Pumberger, because you also mentioned the honoraryness that would have been in jeopardy by our draft law. I can quote something very nice to you – it comes from the Austrian Red Cross, not from me, because otherwise one could say that I would divulge Parliament a bit; in this letter to Hofrat Dr. Häusler, the Red Cross refers to our draft, and there says: "To this draft, should he stay this way, we can give our consent and also the assurance that the training of the rescuer is reasonable for the volunteers and therefore no significant cost increases are associated." - Quote. Well, it was then... [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Why did you reject him?]] Not us! I mentioned earlier that the ÖVP heads of state have constantly prevented this because they simply did not want us to adopt this law. I don't want to be in history research anymore. I'm glad that this law is on the table. We will, of course, be very happy to accept this law. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Rescue Organizations – the Workers' Samaritans Association, the Austrian Red Cross – quite cordially, for the people there, for the civilian service workers and, of course, also for the volunteer Täti-gen – so that you also have your joy, Dr. Pumberger – because they have done really great achievements so far, also with a law that has not yet been as excellent as what you will now decide. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5574	The next speaker was Mrs Povysil. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5596	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In May 2000, several emergency situations were described, and this was then placed on the Internet in excerpts under the title "Helpless Helpers". An example: In January 1995 a serious bus accident on the West motorway, six dead, 20 in part seriously injured. Capacity and communication problems arose. The competent accident surgeon said that two hours are just too much in Central Europe for five serious injuries. To this end, the President of the Lower Austrian Red Cross says: The restructuring is under way. But we don't want to make a violent act, we want to do persuasive work, otherwise it would be like volunteers to stop working as volunteers. Or August 1997: The ORF is in the process of bringing a heart attack patient into the hospital in Bad Aussee. At the time, the sanityists were not allowed to take the lifesaving measures that were urgently needed by law. The competent accident surgeon says: There's a lot going on, they're not allowed to act at all. The President of the Lower Austrian Red Cross says: This is a question that needs to be regulated by law. Here's the law of sanity, ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Lacner! I don't know if he's here now, I don't see him. [[Call the SPÖ: Here, here!]] You know that in 1999 we submitted the draft ministerial proposal as a self-employed one. You could have agreed, then we would have had it in 1999. We tried. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: The ÖVP has prevented everything from happening for 13 years!]] One was important in this law, and it was – you know – a tough fight with all organizations: On the one hand, it was important not to endanger volunteering as an important principle of our society, but to involve the quality claim of modern and increasing emergency and disaster medicine. To this end, it was necessary to draw up a very clear career and work plan of the Sanitary, to define clearly the area of activity – and this is also very important – of the rescuer, of the emergency anity and the area of emergency skills and to create a system of training that could be built up. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a magazine called "Ambulance Service" which is published by Mr. Riener. In this magazine he asks the question: "Sanitary law – is there ever that?" He writes: In the autumn of 2001, it was decided, so it was called after the change of government. In the meantime, however, it has become suspiciously silent. You only hear more that you want to do everything very well in future laws, especially if you listen to one! – Lawyer has been forged for several years. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not a lawman. This was a real tough fight of all to bring about this law in the sense of the patients and in the sense of those acting from the health professions. It's Christmas, the law is done, and this federal government has done it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5652	The next speaker was Mrs Silhavy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5674	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We are dealing here with a matter – my previous speaker has already expressed it – that we have been dealing with in this House for several years. There have already been ideas, which unfortunately were not possible earlier, because they were not feasible thanks to a partner of a coalition government with which you are now also in the government of the FPÖ. But what saddens me is that today, on such an essential legal basis, we need to discuss a completely different matter. Rescue has undergone rapid change in recent years and decades, as we all know, especially in the case of disasters and emergencies. I refer to the contribution made by our colleague, Mr Huber, who stressed the importance of volunteers in this area, but also stressed a little the problem of demarcation with the main employees at this level. I think that this will also apply in the future, in particular to the further development of a reasonable, transparent and up-to-date module training. I hope we can have further discussions there. But what I regret is that in the case of a request, where we find a broad agreement, and in the case of a legislative matter which we want to decide together here, the government groups have not failed to apply a rule of procedure by deciding on an accident insurance in the Health Committee, in which they have made the following: Today, if he had an accident, someone is ill-insured if he calls an emergency doctor, a doctor, a midwife. In the future, one will also be accident insurance if one calls a sanitizer. So it was not a matter of accident protection that was put on the phone by someone who is calling for help, but only of extending it to this group. As we all know, this is a dubious pretext. That this pretext seems to have been threaded has come true today. Dr. Pumberger did it here today. He wants – we see it – to bend a legal basis, thus removing 1.6 billion schilling from the pensioners. Mr State Secretary! It is unfortunate that this federal government is dealing in such a way with essential and important materials that affect the whole groups of people. They have today spoken of handshake quality, trust, out-of- print behaviour in the debate on the Rules of Procedure. What about out-of-date behavior? . You made an official request to the Committee yesterday, and today, in second reading, you are making this request with a clear "anker" in order to reform and correctly make what you have decided against the law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have to think for yourself whether this is a proper way of dealing with democracy, whether it is a proper way of dealing with parliamentarianism. If you continue to work in this way, you will call into question Parliamentaryism and the quality of this House more than just – but perhaps it even wants one of these two coalition parties. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call:A strong piece]] A strong piece is your procedure. [[Abg. Young: This is an undemocratic and illegal procedure...!]] Your procedure is scandalous! The way you are doing here in this House, as you are trying to bring in important provisions in a second reading in an ominous way, is scandalous! This is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: What you say is a scandal!]] Scandalös is at most your procedure, the way in which you deal with this House and the Rules of Procedure of this House, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: I will read the minutes very carefully!]] For this reason, because you want to take away money from pensioners in this way – we will probably find no majority in this House with our request for an increase of 2.9 percent to pay for inflation, although it is today icy cold and that is a request for people with the lowest income – I make the following request: [[Abg. Böhacker: Take this back! That's an unheard-of submission!]] [[Call to the liberals: Thank God!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: If she says something, don't take it seriously! Don't take seriously at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This concerns households with 12 000 s of income. We're talking here about people, people's lives and people's concerns. I'm looking for you: Think of the people who have the lowest income in this country, in this state! I would recommend you step I would like to thank you on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5853	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Silhavy and Mr Comrades is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr President, Mr Waneck, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5907	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say just two sentences on the amendment in accordance with ASVG. On the one hand, this will eliminate interpretation uncertainties for pensioners who claim to have them. [[Abg. Silhavy: 1.6 billion less!]] These ambiguities came from 1999. Secondly, this amendment enhances the scope for negotiation of pension negotiations within the meaning of pensioners. So far, only anything or nothing was possible. We've heard today that there's been nothing for three years. This will no longer exist in the future, as long as this government is in office. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to say to Mr Kräub's first remarks: I'm right about the points he's made. It is not the case that, for example, as in the Visodyne scandal or in the dialysis scandal, patients are transported across the federal states at night. I can add Visadron to this list by buying that in Austria a person blinds per day because the therapy is not secured. It was only the wrong time to treat the wrong day. We talked about the main association in July. These are things that have affected the old main association, since it was not possible to make the appropriate arrangements that led to these scandals. I am convinced that this will now be possible and regulated in the future with the new main association. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: What will you do?]] But let me say something about the Sanitary Law. You should also be happy about things when there is reason for them. The Sanitary Law is such an occasion. You know that Austria is still an island of lucky people, because we are blessed with a huge number of people who volunteer for volunteer activities. According to an international statistics, over 60 percent of the people in this country are working in voluntary organisations. When we look at the former social country of Sweden, we see that there are only more than 36 percent working in this way, and in our neighbouring country it is only more than 18 percent. I don't know if this has anything to do with the current government there. [[Abg. Huber: That's very funny!]] But the essential thing is, I believe, that important health legislation, which concerns all Austrians, is also being adopted jointly. I should like to remind you that the status of this law is due to a Member of this House, namely, Mrs Primaria Dr. Elisabeth Pittermann, who, by her signature on behalf of the Austrian Samaritan League, has allowed Vienna as the last country to withdraw its opposition to this law. I would also like to thank you in this way for the fact that this law can be passed here today.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5981	The next speaker is Mrs Wachslander. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6003	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I can start with a supplement that will trigger storms again. Scandal means to me: your name, your personification, your synonym – Heidrun Silhavy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, since I do not want to get away from the issue as you do from the SPÖ, I would like to come to the Sanitary Act immediately. Ladies and gentlemen! It's actually incredible, it's unimaginable that it's up to today that people who volunteered for the help, and free of charge, couldn't afford it because the right law was missing. This is your fault, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, because you have not passed this law for so long, although you would have had the opportunity to do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] More: These people who volunteered, as I said, for this assistance, even risk getting into the criminal when they do only the smallest medical work or provide assistance. That's a terrible thing. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I know, of course, that in the years before, you tried to bring about changes in this law on sanity. I'm just wondering, Why did you treat this whole thing like that? – It would have to be possible in a coalition – as the liberals have succeeded – to reach consensus and bring this issue to the vote. I missed you. The importance of initial and stabilisation is undisputed, and the medical and technical means are equally good and well applicable. But I have to tell you honestly that I have experienced the conflict myself. During a transport trip, I got very bad between two places through which I was transported, and I went very badly. And when I said, Can't you help me? We can't, we have to see that we're coming to the next hospital. That's not very pleasant. – For me, this law is a very good and, above all, a very important thing. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'm allowed to hold on once again: With us liberals, this manco will be remedied of the possible assistance, but there must be a corresponding training. For me, the postulate already means: independent medical-scientific assistance by nurses and nurses, but only on the basis of well-founded basic training and continuous training. That must be because otherwise it could really be difficult. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In principle, the range of training will take place in module form, and competence will also be variable, ranging from rescue anity to emergency anity, with special competences such as drug administration, injections and infusions and measures in the respiratory and intubation and other things. This law will therefore, as has already been said, significantly improve the initial care of patients. It should also be stressed that the medical services of the medical profession, in particular the emergency doctors, should not be reduced or used less, but that they are still important. But it is clear that people in need of help now do not have to wait for help anymore, just because of the Doctor is not here, but probably the medicament who has a well-founded education. In this sense, I can only say: a thank you to the health sector of this Federal Government, which is now in the foreground of health and not party policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6087	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. The speaking time is gladly set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6108	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We need to discuss an application under the Sanitary Law, although we do not want to discuss it. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: May!]] We also did not have the intention of discussing it, at least if we could believe a word by Members of the Westenthaler. [[Abg. Edlinger: Wherever he is, there can be no gentleman’s agreement!]] When I spoke in the President's office about the fact that this request you have tabled will come within the framework of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, he said: How do you know that? He's not coming! – This is the kind of trust and agreement that Mr Khol attaches such great importance to. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! We have today waived a right, namely the right to hold a question. What we have experienced yesterday and today was an abuse of the Rules of Procedure from the beginning to the end! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This abuse is not acceptable in this form. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, will have the consequences for this. If Prime Minister is not even present at the debate today and only explains to the plenary: I do not need to say anything else because I have already explained to the Federal Council on this question! If this Minister and the government parties in the Committee are not prepared to discuss this request if you are not prepared to discuss it in the Health Committee, and if you make a self-employed request yesterday and allow it to be assigned to the Committee and yet let it vote today, then this is still formally correct, but we understand this by misuse of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Khol! Mr. Dr. Khol, as you know, Minister Head of State has made a separate statement on BSE as part of yesterday's declaration by the Federal Chancellor and Vice-President, although he has previously replied to the urgent request of the Green Group to make an independent statement on BSE: [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] No, I don't see myself able to do that. If, therefore, the plenary cannot discuss its own declaration if, in a question, the Federal Minister as the latter, contrary to an agreement in the presidential – there is an agreement – is still to be heard, although no Member has the opportunity to reply, then the abuse is, and you will have to bear the consequences of it by the government parties. They have the majority, but thank God there is also a Rules of Procedure. And we, ladies and gentlemen, also know how to make use of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The Rules of Procedure are in force!]] You certainly don't have to expect to meet the greens anymore. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Stop your threats! What are these threats?]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject: What you submit here in the framework of and in the form of an amendment proposal means nothing but that you intervene retroactively – with a retroactive effect of two years – in the pension increases. They intervene in such a way that it is probably unconstitutional. You know that too! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why you do not want to discuss, and that is why the Federal Minister is not present at the debate. He's getting rid of this one! You, ladies and gentlemen, say: We increase the rate of inflation for the compensation beneficiaries, they receive 2.9 percent! They forget, however, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, that the compensation beneficiaries will be below the poverty line next year – and the Federal Minister knew that – despite this increase. What do you say about the fact that these people, despite the increases you now grant, are proud of themselves and say: That's more than we were actually willing to give! –, at risk of poverty? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Do you have something to say about the law on health care?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Mr Colleague! That's an old speech!]] That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. And that is not only why there is no agreement, but also why you have to insist that the Constitutional Court will have to deal with this request, which you are now voting on. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I'm starting to fear right away!]] What you are obviously trying to do here, that is to say, unconstitutional and without debate – you do not like the debate on this point – to punish this request by the plenary, the public and the courts will be occupied, and it will not be accepted. That's what's explained to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6252	The next speaker was Mr Grabner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6273	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This law is important for the volunteers. Just as in sport the gold of sports are the volunteer officials, so it is the case here. Mr President, I apologize if I deviate a little from the subject, but after more than 20 years in Parliament I will leave. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Abg. Neudeck: That is what we are voting against!]] I would like to say here – for this I do not enjoy – that I come from a very poor family, that I am a learned mechanic and have done many evening courses. However, despite all the changes, despite the change of time and changing coalitions, two policy interests have accompanied my political path: On the one hand, these were the interests of the people of my district, whom I always felt committed and which I represented according to best knowledge and conscience. [[General condolences.]] "To the well-being of people" was always my guiding principle, since often only too easily the necessities and concerns of the so-called little people in politics are forgotten. Unfortunately, giving every person a fair opportunity to promote him and to update him resources so that he can develop and develop is not a matter of course. Secondly, the interests of sports in Austria were the centre of my political thoughts and actions. I have always tried to give the sport the importance that he deserves. Sports gives motivation. It is a model, opens up horizons and is by victory, but also by losing symbol of life. Therefore, in my view, sport has always played a central role in social policy, which many did not want to recognise or accept. But just as a sports spokesman of my party, the role has been assigned to me to work for it. Sports had almost no recognition at the Hohenhaus 20 years ago. And for 20 years, I've been a sports speaker. Many friends of my own group smiled when I spoke about the demands of sport. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You've always been lucky!]] But it was no different in the other political groups. But now it has become different. There is a sports speaker in every party. Although sport is treated differently according to the position taken by each party, it must be said that it is being treated, and I can say that it was a little bit my success. [[General condolences.]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! It was hard to install a sports committee or subcommittee in this House. Sports should no longer be just an attachment to culture or health, rather it is an equal partner who, after many years of work, has been in contact with culture, art and social engagement and has also become an important economic aspect. Many valuable jobs depend on sports events in Austria. That, I think, is very important. A success of these 20 years – I have already mentioned it – is the greater support of the volunteer officials. If one had to pay volunteer work only at 100 s per hour in sport, that would be a lot of billion schilling – as in the sanity area. Further successes are: the Sports Promotion Act, the financial security of sports until next year – I hope, in future too – the financial security of athletes, the tent festivals – have negotiated about this for four very many hours – the Sports Square Protection Act, the supply-position of the sports venues of the federal government for all clubs, the advertising charge – which we have only recently succeeded together. Many international sporting events have been held in Austria. It's not all we've been able to do. Deputy Schweitzer looks like that. We did not succeed in the daily sports hours for all school types, but the cooperation with the umbrella and professional associations and with the Olympic Committee, with the BSO was very good. Ladies and gentlemen! I am proud to have been at many World Championships, European Championships, World Cup events and Olympic Games. I have had many contacts with athletes, functionalists and sponsors. I have always been driven at my own expense and will do so in the future. [[General condolences.]] So I would like to appeal to my successors, to all of you, to increase the importance of sports even further. It is about the top sports, leisure sports, the disabled sport and the free association sport. "Sport for everyone and everyone" be the motto! It will benefit this country and its people. In addition, sports policy is a delightful human and exciting field of work. Only in sports is youth at home. I wish my successors much success and joy at work. I would also like to thank my colleagues, athletes and all my companions for a nice and fulfilled time and a good cooperation. If you were often not always in agreement, many friendships were won and maintained. Thank you. I have won friends in all political groups. And I'll do one more thing: I'm going to accompany the National Council as a non-playing captain until May, because that's 30. ==References====External links== I would also like to thank you all, ladies and gentlemen, and wish you all the best. Remember, democracy is a high but very fragile good. Take care! Parliament is the focal point of Austrian democracy, so a lot of responsibility rests on your shoulders, which cannot easily be dealt with. I wish you and your families all good and good health, and – forgive me – I wish my party much success in the future. It's approved by you, Noldi Grabner.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6355	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6377	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I know it's not usual for something to be said after a farewell speech. Excuse me, Mr President, if I do not speak on the agenda, but with our Noldi Grabner, in many respects, a significant colleague leaves this House. The emphasis is actually on "weighty" because our Noldi has done something in this house, which distinguishes him especially and what – as I wish – should continue to be maintained in the future: The Noldi has established connections between the individual factions, which were very, very friendly and very friendly, via the way of sport as a "non-playing-captain" of the FC National Council. The fact that this is mentioned here and now is, I believe, very important: His work as a "non-playing-captain" has created friendships between the individual political groups that have also gained importance beyond sport. In this regard, he is an example, and I recommend this model to all of us for imitation. – Thank you, Noldi, for these connections!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6418	As the next speaker, the honourable Member's head is mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6439	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Noldi, I am as permitted as my colleague Karl Schweitzer – it is a need as much as our Karl – to just thank you at the end of your long political career. Thank you, Noldi, for your sports policy activity! In your 20 years as a sports spokesman, you have moved very, very much, politically for sports. Thank you for this on behalf of all sportsmen, the associations, the clubs, the officials, the athletes, who have always been a very special concern to you! But I would also like to thank you as your friend at the end of your political career; I think I may call myself such. You have always been a fair partner, always a fair interlocutor, despite the contradiction and difference between the political groups, and I thank you very much for that in my own name, but also on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I wish you all, all good for your future. I know we're going to meet again and again on the sporting stage, at events, at discussions and so on, and I have to say I'm looking forward to that. I wish you and your family all the best for the future. Thank you again!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6482	Mr Herzegovina has also been mentioned. The watch is adjusted to 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6503	Dear Noldi Grabner! I would like to thank you on behalf of the Socialist Group and also on behalf of the National Council for your great achievements. You are and remain a political person who has the heart on the right, who has always beaten for the sport and will continue to beat. I'd like to tell you one thing: At the tournament next year in Vorarlberg, the green group will also be present for the first time. It will be a tournament in which all four parliamentary parties will be represented in the FC National Council team, and I guarantee you, we will win the final tournament with a glaring success for you. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6539	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends a federal law on the training, activities and profession of the medicaments and the Federal Law on the regulation of the medical and technical services and the health services, the Preservation Act and the Health Organization Working Time Act, together with the title and receipt in 872 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also unanimously adopted. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the ASVG, in 931 of the supplements. Mr Pumberger, Mr Feurstein, Mrs Hiezu have tabled an additional amendment or amendment. There is also a request for a separate vote made by Mr Öllinger. I shall therefore vote first of all on the parts of the supplementary or amending proposal and on the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Pumberger, Dr. Feurstein, colleagues, tabled an additional amendment which concerns the insertion of new paragraphs 1, 4 and 5 and the resulting amendments to the terms of reference. I ask for an appropriate sign upon approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bures, colleagues, on the adjustment of pensions, at least with the rate of inflation. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. [[Abg. Dr. Bruckmann rises from his place.]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Silhavy, ladies and gentlemen, on heating aid for persons with a budget income below 12 000 p. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. 3rd. Point Report by the Health Committee on the Stenographic Protocol of the Parliamentary Survey (III-106 of the Supplements) on Solidarity with Our Mortgages – Aspects of a Human Accompaniment in Austria (933 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6673	We'll get to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Lacner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6700	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It's done! A four-party request on death support and hospice movement in Austria as a result of the parliamentary survey "Solidarity with our dying – aspects of a human death accompaniment" is today decided and thus also reaffirms the opposition of the Austrian Parliament to active death aid. And that's good, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The result of this motion for a resolution can be seen. In cooperation with all four parties, the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations is asked to work together with the local authorities and the main association to develop an Austrian-wide hospice plan for both stationary and outpatient areas. The Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations is asked to set up the palliative medical units already provided for in the Austrian Hospital Plan in the hospitals as soon as possible in accordance with a level plan agreed with all responsible persons. A clear focus will also be placed on training. For example, all occupational groups working in the care of seriously ill and dying people are to be forced by uniform federal standards of interdisciplinary training. In addition, opportunities for continuing training in the field of up-to-date health and nursing services are also provided. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is also gratifying that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour is being asked to develop a model for the realization of the karence to accompany death and also to secure it under labour law. It is equally gratifying that the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations is being asked to secure this right of death. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this very gratifying result could be saddened very soon if a message launched in the "Small Newspaper" becomes a reality, according to which there will obviously be problems with the coalition partners regarding the financial security of death. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think you should try to leave this resolution, which we will decide together today as a four-party proposal, or to interrupt. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: In all modesty, I would also like to remind you that it was the opposition in this House that has to be considered an engine for this four-party request. Mr Rasinger! I would now like to present you with a "real Rasinger", a "real Rasinger" because the message is not quite compatible with reality. [[the speaker holds a page taken out of the magazine "FORMAT" to the height]] Dear colleague Rasinger! If we confess to this four-party request, you should also confess to it and not make an attempt to attach it to your flags alone! [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Have I ever said anything else?- Oh, my God!]] I recognize this four-party request because it is important to me because the subject matter is so important, and therefore I will always speak of a four-party request. I am also pleased that we have been able to eliminate your scepticism, Mr Pumberger, and yet we have come to a four-party solution. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Have I ever said anything else?- Oh, my God!]] – This article says that you were the engine, nothing else, but that's not quite right. Now, in view of the fact that we are deciding on a four-party proposal, I do not want to roll up the whole story again, Mr Rasinger, but I can, of course, do it if you want to. It's fixed, Mr Rasinger – I don't want to pick up now –: We will evaluate very carefully what will happen with this resolution. We will observe very closely whether you will fulfil this resolution on the spot and on the spot, and we will observe very closely, Mr Pumberger, whether this resolution will not again depend on any budgetary flakes and needs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the Hospice Movement and the Caritas, because they were the ones who finally brought this work to an end, so to speak, with spiritual support. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6769	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Pumberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6790	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Lackner, the engine for this four-party request was the parliamentary survey on 29 October. May 2001 – and nothing else! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Small! Little! Little!]] This survey, with a high-ranking expert round, was very successful. It has also shown a ambiguity within the four parliamentary parties which I, whom I had the honour to chair at the time, hope to have an all-party agreement on this matter. This engine has been equipped with four cylinders through the months of negotiations we have conducted, and these four cylinders represent the four parties, and all four parties – I do not want to delete or push back – have tabled this motion for a resolution together. This is not a matter of course in this House, and it is therefore particularly important to highlight and welcome. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Right now before the feast of Christ's birth, we are addressing a taboo theme, namely, dying. 85 000 people a year face this fact, including one day, and two thirds of these people die in hospitals. 81 percent of all Austrians who die each year want to die at home, in the circle of their relatives, relatives, in the familiar environment. But not even to a third is taken into account this last wish of this 81 percent to die at home. This motion for a resolution, the Sukkus from the survey we carried out in May of this year, has all this to do with: In the meantime, Professor Van der Bellen, we are quite clearly opposed to the active death aid – a slipper has been brought to Räson by you, perhaps Dr. Grünewald, or by Mrs. Haidlmayr; since then I have not heard anything from him in this causa, nor much else. We make it clear that we are forcing and expanding the Austrian hospice system – a wish of all four parliamentary parties – that we are expanding the palliative beds in an analogous way to the Austrian Hospital Plan, that together with the countries we regulate the financing, that we promote dying in familiar domestic surroundings in the form of outpatient and mobile hospice facilities that we need to expand, also for those professional groups that are needed for this death support, creating training opportunities, opportunities for continuing training, and also palliative care. And last but not least, it is very important to talk about patient facilities – which is also included in the motion for a resolution – and to ensure labour law and social security in the so-called death care. This is already 1 with 1. January 2003 is a law, and that is an essential factor. A factory worker whose mother is seriously ill, dying at home could not yet be released, but had to work in the last weeks when the mother was dying. This is where remedial action is to be taken. The death carnation should ensure that it is possible to stay at home in the future. A corresponding chair must also be created. A month before the survey took place with us, the Dutch Senate decided in Article 293 of the Dutch Criminal Code: ==References== Whoever kills another person on his explicit and serious desire will be punished with imprisonment for up to twelve years.... 2. The act referred to in the first paragraph – the killing of a human being – "is not punishable if it has been committed by a doctor who has fulfilled the care criteria... and informed the local body viewer...." My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Such a law was passed by a majority in an EU member country! The doctor has been granted the license to kill, legally insured. He only needs to understand the bodyviewer and meet the criteria of care. – Our house takes a short distance from that. The survey has been successful, and I hope that the motion for a resolution will also be successful in its implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6834	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. Your speaking time is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6855	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Before I give my real speech, allow me a few words on the statements made by my previous speakers. When it comes to determining paternity for a child, I have to say that it includes mothers. And precisely the women of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, particularly Mrs Edeltraud Gatterer, have brought this issue into play five years ago. We are grateful that now, in the time of this government, we have succeeded in bringing this issue so far with Federal Minister Bartenstein and Federal Minister Main that it is now finally "born". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, when we talk about aspects of a human death accompaniment in Austria in the House, we are setting a sign. We show our solidarity with our sick and dying. We make dealing with this sensitive issue a socially relevant matter. At this point I would like to express my thanks on behalf of the ÖVP Group, a thank you to Cardinal Dr. Franz König and a thank you to Caritas Director Dr. Michael Landau, who jointly took this initiative for the hospice and, so to speak, proposed a cross-party and cross-Christian alliance for human dignity as a reminder to politics. But I also want Mag. Hildegard Teuschl thank you – which today is following this discussion here at the gallery – for the chairman of the Hospiz Austrian Attic Association, who has always actively supported us all with their expertise. It has also prepared this motion for a resolution together with our health spokesman Dr. Rasinger. - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to comment on the fact that today's day, in my opinion, was very loaded, for example, that Dr. Rasinger mentioned in the Committee: Rarely have I experienced such a constructive climate in a matter like this. The discussion was factual and fruitful. All the groups in our House voted against an active model of death aid in the Netherlands. - Quote. For this decision we all deserve a thank you, I believe, and also Austria. I believe that this is an important issue, because "divorcing from this world" concerns all of us. We want to leave the final phase of life of a dear fellow human being and the related concerns not only to the physicians, the philosophers, the care staff, the churches and the politicians – this is a topic of society, a topic of families! [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman, as well as the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] We also say no to active death aid, ladies and gentlemen, because we respect ethical boundaries. People should say good - by the hand of another man, not by the hand of another. That is precisely what is now set out in this motion for a resolution. In addition, it should be noted that Austrians do not want an active death aid. According to a survey conducted by the Medical Chamber, 33 percent of the population voted against. 24 percent are in favour of this process, at their own request, and 31 percent are undecided. And precisely this undecided group needs our support to show it how important this issue is, how important it is to strengthen solidarity between generations, especially for this generation, in order to allow for human life. 81 percent of people say they want to divorce from this life at home in familiar surroundings. I would also like to say that according to statistics, it is well over 90 percent of women who take care of care at home, mostly in addition to the profession or in another situation of life. That has a lot of load in it. It should not be forgotten that these women are not only burdened with a lot of responsibility today, but also a lot of burden, which is also something special to wear, and that we must therefore support them. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman, as well as the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] That is why the integration of the hospice principles and the hospice work into the entire health and social system of Austria is essential. Mortal people of all ages must receive the best possible palliative precautions, and funding must not be an obstacle. Undisputed, it is a central task of the public authorities to ensure adequate professional palliative care. However, it will also be up to society to recognise and promote the free, voluntary work in the hospice field. I have been working as a family representative in the Styria for ten years, and I know how difficult it was for us in the Styria, for example, to build this track. Today this hospice movement is facing a huge wave of support, and I also thank on behalf of our group all the volunteers who carry on this work in the hospice movement but also within the family. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to say a few things, which is rather brief in this motion for a resolution, but is a very, very important aspect, namely the possibility of taking care of dying relatives. We know that the designation has not yet been "happy" if one can even put this word in the mouth in this context. I may think here in the direction of care management, just as Dr. Bartenstein has prepared in cooperation with competent experts; he has also prepared in the field of labour law, because this is a very specific question of occupational safety. I would therefore also like to thank the economy. I was allowed to participate in these labour-law pre-negotiations, and I can say that there is a great deal of objection in this area; you have to know that. I say thank you for being able to go to Karenz for three months or six months, to return at any time and to have the social, pensionable, labour security provisions. - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As mentioned above, caregivers need the best possible support from our side. More than 90 percent are women doing this work. It is now finally to become reality in Austria that not only parents can accompany their children into life, but also children can accompany their parents from life. – These are words by Caritas Director Landau, and I would like to conclude with them. I hope that this will really be a four-party request with the approval of all.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6978	Mr Grünewald has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7000	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Estimated and dear Caritas representatives! I have rarely been as happy in Parliament as in the last few hours of the negotiations and after the conclusion of these negotiations. Since this is likely to interest the minority, when I am delighted and when I am not, I would like to go back a little bit to history and recall how this agreement has been reached. I believe that all of us, all representatives of the four parties, could learn something from it for the future and should become aware that this does not have to or should remain a unique event. I have the feeling that many in this Parliament – you may say it is not for me to say that – are making it difficult for this hasty, hustle and partly acid loyalty to certain clubs and regulations to simply look at key issues of life. And those central questions include dying. Col. Rasinger – this is what it says in the "profile" – has meant: Life begins with a gentle birth and is also to end gently! – I mean, nothing is as certain as the birth – which lies behind, differently far away – but just as safe is death, and as far as it lies before us, no one knows from us. Just, he's not always gentle, I'm telling you that in all hardness. Death is not always gentle, death is cruel, it rarely takes place where people want it, mostly where one is not prepared, where the premises are not available, on the street, on the toilet, in the snow, and that is not funny. This is not funny for those who watch, and not funny for those who experience it. It is therefore, of course, easier to agree on what you do not want to say, this Dutch model. It was fast. But then, when it came to the core question: How do I really help these people? What are the consequences? And what's that cost?, it's gotten harder, I don't want to deny that. I have rarely heard as often as I did in this survey and sometimes afterwards the Cardinal, whom I really value very much, rarely heard the Church and the religion quoted. I would have expected from some of those who have repeatedly quoted the Cardinal King and the religion, so longingly, to hear something like this of the Cardinal's tolerance, something like that of a religion's humanism in other speeches, but that was not always the case. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The title of the survey "Solidarity with our mortals" has already inspired me to consider. What does "our mortals" mean? This is very ambivalent and can also be – I don't want to be overcritical – suspicious. "Ours" can be called, we are solid. "Ours" can also be called, we consider the dying to be our property, we are harbinging them, we know what they need. That would, I believe, be less good, because dying people do not necessarily belong to a party, nor can they be influenced by recipe books of morality in what they want and what they need. I often find the farewell of the living difficult enough, and the more severe the farewell of the dying, because if you are not just deeply believing, this can be a more definitive one. The guarantee that it is not so is vague and is perceived differently by everyone. That is why this issue is so important. I am often running in circle to carry out this four-party request, and there are also some things I do not want to experience all again. But since my joy prevails, I will not mention it any more. However, I would like to say that the most important points were the questions: Should those who understand how to make their lives more pleasant also be those who can afford a more pleasant and humane death? - I don't think so. Should operators of hospizen need to write bedding letters, issue certificates? Should it only depend on civil society, how professional people are accompanied in dying, or is that our all concern? Are we convinced that death should take place in health, or do we regard it as the endpoint of a disease for which the state has to deal as well as for other diseases and where social security should be taken into account with political support? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In some discussions, I have often felt that death is sometimes more kind, mild and less cruel than some who speak so salopp about the death of foreigners, from above, relatively quickly and easily and bring in their ideas which have not served politically to agree. If you think that 14 percent of all patients die in nursing homes in the first month and 46 percent already after half a year, that's terrifying. This does not mean that death is a matter of old age, by no means, but it means that old people need our special solidarity that in the future dying may not only occur in palliative medical beds in hospitals, that Hospice may not be ghettos either, that dying must be promoted at home, outpatient care and as many flexible models as possible. I would also like to thank you, but I would like to say a few things before. The LKF score that has been made so that palliative beds are built and there is a consent from the countries, looks so that the first twelve days – and that sounds very sober and political – are rated with more than 3 500 points, so to speak, placed under goose feet – are "attractive" for the wearer. ==References====External links== Day this score up to 50 percent. That means – and this is my criticism –: The sooner one dies there, the cheaper – and then I leave the quotation marks away – it is for the wearer. This is something that needs to be corrected here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] "Development" is here linked to the word "approach". "Development" is beautiful, but "proposal" means that it now needs the goodwill of the ministries and politics. We have agreed that all of us together will take a very close look at the fact that what is in this resolution and what we have put forward as a request will also take place in reality. I want – and this shows me that the commonness is very much worth me; that is not always the case with the Greens – not only thanks to Caritas and my colleague Lackner and also to his speaker, who has often faced me with the principle of reality when my idealism has flown away, which was important. I would also like to thank Waneck and Head, who have opened my eyes to me at the very last second, that it is not right to believe, not to reach agreement on this, and have made it clear that they are in favour of ensuring employment and social security, where we were left to the end in the belief that this would not be carried out together. Thank you very much for that too. But still: We do not separate in peace, but we continue in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7087	The next speaker was Mrs Silhavy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7108	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I'd like to start right there where my previous speaker stopped. They know that it was indispensable for us that if one introduces a kind of death-carency – as the word now means – it must be manageable for all, and not only for those who can afford an exemption at their own risk, without being socially insured. Dear colleague Steibl! We are here on a very sensitive subject, which, I believe, we are trying to treat not only with reason, but also with feeling. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our colleague, Lacner, was on 5 May. This year we have tabled a motion for a resolution which, at the end of the day, was the basis for our joint motion for a resolution. I believe that this has made it possible to achieve a certain pace in the serious treatment of this issue here in this House. By the end of the day, Mr Greenewald, we have only indicated it in a very polite manner here, that is, until immediately before the committee, has come to the point of making a four-party request. It was not least due to the initiative and activity of Mrs Teuschl and Director Landau, also with that party, which obviously was the most opposed, namely against this labour and social security, to reach a certain consensus at the end of the day. [[Abg. Steibl: The Federal Minister Bartenstein has been working with the Caritas Director Landau for a very long time!]] My dear colleague Steibl, you don't have to get upset! You were obvious, yes, you were certainly not involved in the negotiations that we concluded, five minutes before the Health Committee started. [[Abg. Steibl: I was there! You weren't there!]] You'd have seen how your colleague Rasinger behaved. I don't want to upset you now, but obviously your excitement is due to the bad conscience you want to hide with it. At the end of the day, however, we managed, even at the last minute, to make this four-party request. I personally urge the model of the exemption from care and an extension of this model, because it would cover all our requirements, namely the social and labour requirements as well as the issue of financing. The newspaper can be found that the remuneration question is obviously not yet clarified. At the end of the day, however, it is crucial for people to be able to take advantage of this exemption or treatment, as they say. This is the essential point on which the spirits have obviously divorced. I hope that the motion for a resolution will be implemented in our sense. We don't need to thank anyone today. Today we can thank ourselves for having come to this four-party request, but it has not yet been implemented, and the question is how this four-party application will be implemented. That is the essential point. We are also concerned about this possibility, when one is active, for a certain period of time giving up the profession entirely or partly, namely through part-carnation, hourly, in order to be together with a person who loves you, just to take care of him again once again, if it is clear that he will soon have to get out of life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But the issue is not over. What are we talking about? – We are talking about cases where, as humans, we have the opportunity to say goodbye to each other, where we can learn to let go, where we are given the opportunity to be together with people who realize that their lives are about to end. We have already talked about disasters at the previous item on the agenda today. And we must certainly continue to work in this area and see how we can make it easier for survivors and family members to deal with this situation. I would like to thank you, but would like to point out that, of course, implementation is the essential thing, which people can actually take away from this request for themselves for their living situation. And I very much hope, Mr State Secretary – the Federal Minister is no longer here – that it will be possible to use this care care care care care, death care as it may then be called, in such a way that people can afford to accompany people who love them in the last, hardest hours, regardless of their income situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7165	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7187	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Silhavy, I really think it is necessary to say who is now the inventor or the mother, the father of an idea. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But who else has started with it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] In principle, I think it is necessary, because in the past legislative period it was my group that has done something about this. And if you say there are some things still nowhere, palliative stations, then look at our common federal state! There it was my initiative. It doesn't matter who gives the impetus, it's important that something happens in this area. I hope we all agree. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With increasing prosperity and advances in medicine, more and more people – thank God, I say – can rejoice in a significantly increased life expectancy. While in 1960 the average life expectancy in men was 65 and in women 72 years, it was 75 and 81 in 1999 – with an increasing trend. However, with increasing age, there is also increased likelihood and duration of potential care needs, for reasons of illness, for reasons of morbidity, or due to age-related disabilities. Death is thus moving ever further to old age. About 60 percent of deaths affect people over 75 years of age. At the same time, it becomes more present in the form of long diseases, such as Alzheimer's or Parkinson's, increasingly unfortunately God also among younger people, cancers, mostly associated with intensive care needs. Illness, death and death are largely taboo in our society, as we all know. This is probably less a consequence of ever-conjured increasing cold than the result of far-reaching changes in the basic social structure, especially in the family. The system hospital and belief in the omnipotence of medical progress strengthen the concentration on medical-technical possibilities, on healing, sometimes almost at any price. Technical high-performance medicine is tending to be more trusted than human high-performance, especially in dealing with people with death. Especially in the case of cancers, as well as in the case of progressive degradation and decay of physical functions or the occurrence of multiple diseases, the point at which the classical claim for healing comes into the background and would normally have to come to the fore. In my view, the current health system has far too little to offer. Lindernende palliative care and the support of dying with the same intensity and quality as the curative therapies are to be guaranteed – and perhaps even more to ensure. With the same energy and concern as they are used in curative medicine, the dying and their social environment need a different kind of care, a networked kind of care, both in the stationary and outpatient areas. Unfortunately, it is often continued too much therapy, although the success of therapy is in no relation to the gain of quality of life. Modern medicine does in these cases allow for an extension of survival, but not of life. There is no attitude that accepts the limits of medical opportunities and the ultimateity of life. Our joint proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is at least one step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7240	The next speaker was Mrs Gatterer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7262	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! In the middle of life we are caught by death, and yet the subject of death and death is one of the last taboo issues we have, especially with fear and oppression, and this, although at least 85 000 people die each year in Austria. When you count family and family members, about 400,000 people a year are confronted with death, death, and mourning. We also have to say that there were too few active steps in politics to deal with this issue, and that is why this four-party proposal is really an important and good approach. I'm very happy about that. Politics is obliged to take more care of, regulate and facilitate the last and last things of life. The goal must be to provide medical, social, psychological and spiritual assistance and support to the dying and his family in the last phase. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The fact that this four-party request has been made is not only worthy of many of the House's mandates and mandates, but also of many employees – one of them is sitting on the gallery: Ms. Hildegard Teushl – and of course the health speakers. I would like to mention Roman Kunyik, who worked really tirelessly here. I am very glad that we are taking steps in this direction, and I am also very glad that there is a decision here for the first time that all four parties oppose active death aid, against euthanasia. We have become aware of this: accompany rather than kill, and it has also been said in the survey that has been mentioned several times today: The goal is to separate from life by the hand of another person, and not to die by the hand of another person. I am very glad that there is this basic consensus here, however, I expect that this basic consensus, which we find today, will also be carried internationally, because these questions will continue to concern us in Europe. We have reached basic consensus that not only young, healthy, beautiful and happy people, but also old, sick, fragile and dying people have their fixed place in society. We must make every effort to reduce the fears of dying, but also to leave life in its dignity and worth untouchable. Everything else is equal to capitulation of our society before the challenges of life and death, because the practical experience shows that where one allows suicide to be done very soon without consent, and what appears to be the autonomy and freedom of the individual, what should be a supposed right, becomes a duty for many very quickly and in reality is nothing but an erodement of the most elementary rights of man, the protection of life and the protection of his dignity. I think we are really invited here – I would like to repeat this once again because I am very important – after all four parties have agreed here to be against euthanasia and against active death aid, to ensure that all those Members who work internationally are committed to fighting for it in Europe. One cannot be on the one hand against active death aid and on the other hand offer nothing to people in Austria. That is why this motion for a resolution is absolutely important. We have weaknesses in this area in Austria, we have shortcomings, and we have to confess and become active here. Certainly, palliative medicine needs to be expanded, and we need support teams that can come home to the patients and are trained in palliative medicine. I would like to mention Professor Virt here, who says: Palliative medicine is not the most expensive, but probably the most human form of medicine. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We need an extension of the hospice movement, as my previous speaker said, both stationary and extramural. It turns out – I have visited many hospice – that people who are well cared for and are well cared for, who have no pain, do not express at all the desire for active death aid. From many discussions I also know that this desire is often a cry: Don't leave me alone! I need to get close, I need a hand, I need people talking to me! The last wishes of the dying are like: I want to be pain free. I don't want to be left alone, and I want to be in the circle of my family. We have already done a great deal with this motion for a resolution, which deals with the extension of palliative medicine, financial security, the expansion of the hospice movement and the creation of the possibility of care or death support for members. We must now look at the fact that federal government, countries, municipalities and insurance companies are really working together here and taking further steps quickly. I am also in favour of providing means for death research, because we are very concerned with the beginning of life, with in vitro fertilization, with all kinds of things – but what happens at the end of life? There are very few people involved in research. I would like to quote here a great woman who wrote a book entitled "Death – the last stage of growth". We still know far too little about this stage. I think there's a need for action. For me, however, it is also important that patient rights be strengthened. There are a few previous speakers, especially Mrs Mag. Hartinger, already referred to it. Many people fear that their lives will be extended against their will by the so-called apparatus and equipment medicine, where man is only a part of this process. There is progress in medicine today, there is an improvement in medical methods, a development of revitalization measures that only delay the time of death, sometimes also against the will of the patient, and thus neglect the quality of life of the dying, do not take into account the needs and desires of the patients, but also the care staff, the doctors and the family, or even ignore and basically only prolong the loneliness and suffering of the patients. I think it's necessary to really quickly think about how a patient can look and what a legal character it has. There must also be a strengthening of patient rights. I also do not want to miss out on thanking all those who have worked and contributed to this resolution, including the countless people who already work in the field of hospice, who make palliative medicine, the helpers and mental caregivers, who daily show that there are human ways to deal with the fears of people from pain, loneliness, suffering and death and to meet these fears. I would like to thank you once again for the fact that this four-party request is being made, and I am convinced that it is a very important and great step in order to keep life intact in its dignity and worth.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7358	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7379	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too am very glad that there is this four-party request, because I think it is a step towards achieving the goal that no one has any more fear of dying, because he is alone because he is suffering from pain, because he has to live in social conditions that are unbearable to him, and that everyone can really die in dignity, which means that the person concerned does not have to be alone and that it does not have to be under pain. Mr State Secretary! I would like to mention one point in this motion for a resolution because I believe that palliative care is an issue that is very important not only for the dying, but also for very many living people, who are in an acute phase in their life in the meantime, and therefore very much dependent on palliative medicine, on pain relievers. Mr. State Secretary Waneck, you know this much more precisely than I do, because you are an internist and have a lot more experience in this field than I do, but I can tell you from my life and experience that it is very important for people suffering from high cross-sectional paralysis, for cancer-sick people, for spastics, for HIV-positive people, for people suffering from AIDS in the future, that the field of palliative medicine and pain relief is stepped up with appropriate medications, and that you see reality in the eye – in the interests of people who are dependent on medicines that contribute to pain relief. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that this motion for a resolution can be the approach and, as I hope, it will also be a matter of open and proper discussion, not only of using palliative medicine only in the dying process, but also of people still alive in order to help them to bridge it in a difficult situation. I believe that the acute bed area in the palliative stations should not only be limited to dying people, but should also have the right to palliative medicine and to sleeping beds in the palliative area, which I mentioned before, in order to facilitate their lives, so that they can live and live well again in society. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am also very happy that it has become possible to provide social security for those persons who take over the care of the dying, because, in some cases, I also know this from my own experience as the head of an outpatient care service, that this work with relatives, with dying, is an extremely difficult work with the entire social environment, which requires a lot of personality. We also need a lot of support and care for the helpers, and all this needs to be ensured, not only can this be left to the voluntary sector, but I believe that it is necessary to professionalize that and to really recognize the corresponding professions of persons who provide death support and care for the family. These are, of course, thoughts that point to the future and are not yet fixed in this proposal. But I see this request as a basis for discussion to address this phase of life and to really discuss it in a wide variety of ways: How can people who are in difficult stages of life facilitate their situation? When we all get together on this, I'm really good at it, that there can be some progress in the near future. It no longer has to be the fate of the individual, in which phase of life he is cared for and how he is, but that is the responsibility of all of us, and we simply have to assume this responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7443	The next speaker was Mrs Csörgits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7464	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I too am very pleased that it was possible here to find a four-party agreement. This is a very important, but also, as has already been said, a very sensitive area, and I am therefore glad that it has succeeded, because we cannot leave dying people alone, and here there are many good approaches. I just want to address two of them. A comprehensive supply of hospice facilities – stationary, outpatient, but also mobile – must be a goal. However, it must also be a goal that those people who work there will be given appropriate support, whether it be with a nationally uniform training, but also in the area of the very strong mental burden that these colleagues or the relatives who care there are exposed. But I also believe that we should not leave the relatives alone. That is why I am very pleased that this agreement also includes care leave and that Federal Minister Bartenstein is working out a draft for a care care care care care course, which should allow close relatives to stay away from their jobs for some time in order to meet the very difficult, but very important tasks of death support. The protection of workers in this area is particularly important, and I am therefore very glad that we were able to agree on the need for labour law and social security. The people concerned must simply have the opportunity to get back to work, even so that they do not have any difficulties in connection with their retirement, for example later on. I was a bit horrified and also alerted when I picked up a newspaper that there seems to be no solution in connection with the payment. I appeal to both ministers in this respect because I believe that this is very important for all of us. We do not want to create two groups of people: the one who can afford to live up to this care, and others who are unfortunately in the situation of not being able to afford it simply because they depend on their incomes because they have difficulty giving up on it, and therefore they simply cannot take care of it. These people can be influenced throughout their lives and make a lifelong accusation that this did not happen. That is why I really call on you from the government parties to ensure that there is financial security for those people who need and want to take care of this care treatment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all the political groups for this very important four-party proposal, and I also hope that the concerns I have raised will also be taken into account. This is particularly true of women, and we do not want to disadvantage the women who are caring for it and who interrupt their work. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7518	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7540	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Death doesn't have the last word. You have proved this very impressive today with your event in the historic hall of this house. Birth and death are elements of life, and you have correctly mentioned in your motion that 81 percent of people want to die at home, 83 percent want to die without pain, and 93 percent want to know the truth about their condition. Here you have already included all the points of your motion for a resolution. Those who want to die at home – and this right should be theirs – need appropriate care. That is to say, it must be created by society to ensure that this support can also be implemented. This is what is meant for the so-called death or palliative care. 83 percent want to die without pain. This too is a legitimate concern for people, even if medicine, modern science is able to fulfill it. Here the medicine is required. 93 percent want to know the truth, the truth about their condition. However, this requires more than just medical care, which also requires appropriate human care. And it has been said quite correctly by Mrs Haidlmayr that it is not just about dying. First, we don't know when you're dying. Therefore, as a doctor, I also reject the considerations as to how much of the cost in the last weeks or months. This is a completely irrelevant number! This can be calculated statistically, but is in itself – alone the finding – very inhuman. We do not know when the last weeks and when the last months of the person concerned are, and everyone who is a doctor has already experienced amazing things in this area. I can also name a number that sounds incredible. In a hospice in the context of a conventional hospital, in an area where I myself worked as a doctor, I have experienced that 68 percent of patients who are in Hospice have left it alive. So they only spent a certain period of their life there in appropriate care. I also agree entirely with the fact that palliative medicine does not deal exclusively with the dying, but also with disabled and severely disabled people. I recommend every once a walk – it is not far from here – into the House of Mercy to see what palliative medicine can do and what it is necessary for. In this sense, I am very happy and very happy that you have been able to decide on this four-party agreement. All the suggestions you have made in the debate, the calls to the government and also to my place of business are very serious. I can assure you, first of all we're already in the process of implementing them, and second of all we're going to be You can also measure me by the degree of implementation in the future. I can assure you that I will ensure that we will fulfill your mission here according to best knowledge and conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7588	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7609	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Unfortunately, I could not participate in the survey we held. But then I read through the whole text, and what kept me in mind the most and most intensively, was the sentence: Life lasts until death. That means that the process of dying is part of life and is far from part of our death. This obliges us and society as a whole to accept this part of life and to deal intensively with it. I am pleased that this joint motion for a resolution has come about at a time when there has been much to read in the media about how many people in Austria find the death aid, the killing of a sick person acceptable. I find it particularly remarkable that, despite this media presentation, such a consensus was possible in Parliament, and I am particularly grateful to the health speakers of all four political groups. I think that was a great achievement from you, with the cooperation of our club secretary, Roman Kunyik. Why is the mood of the population today so? Why is it so high in surveys that the question of the acceptance of being killed? – I believe that this is one of the leading points we have been dealing with and must continue to deal with. It has already been said by many that for most people the fear of pain is the most crucial factor, but I think as an explanation it does not take deep enough. In our society is youth, the opportunity to move, to engage in sports, to be happy, to be happy, to be a value in itself, in a, as I believe, yet exaggerated scale. We are all called upon to take this into consideration in all our speeches and in our actions. I also think it is important that there is not only the dying carnation so that the dying does not have to die alone, but also in order to give the next generations the opportunity to face death and accept their own death better. I also say this on the basis of my own very personal experience, which I did when my grandmother died. She died in the hospital, but also there, using all equipment medicine. She was cancer-sick. Her pain was stopped. She was well maintained, even today. And she died in the hospital in the circle of her family. She had been unconscious a few weeks before, and perhaps in the Netherlands one could have assumed that she would have been killed. My grandmother has waken up one more time in the circle of ten grandchildren and her husband, opened his eyes, looked at all of us, and said to her husband: "Vati, tell the children not to be sad, life is beautiful. And besides, Dad, I'd take you back!" The only thing I've always thought about when thinking about one's own death was: I want to be able to die like this, looking back at a full life. – And I hope that with today’s motion for a resolution, we can make this possible to a great many people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7664	The next speaker was Mrs Freigaßner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7685	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I am very glad that a four-party request has been made here, because the dying and their relatives need our full solidarity across all the borders of the party. Mr Grünewald! Unlike you, as a Catholic, I am pleased that the ecumenical council of the churches of Austria has referred to the consensus on death support and the accompanying measures taken to do so as an example. As we have often heard today, palliative medicine means to live largely painless and with clear mind to the end. The palliative medical care should therefore not only be used in the hospital and at home, but – and this is especially important to me – it must also belong to the standard of any nursing home. But not only can pain control be the priority here. It also requires caregivers, mental, mental and social measures, which are largely covered by the 24-hour hospice service and, in conjunction with palliative medicine, ensure a high quality of life. I therefore see it as urgently necessary to work out and implement the Austrian Hospice Plan required in the motion for a resolution as soon as possible, with the mobile hospice service particularly dear to me, as it allows the most important stay in the home environment for them in their last phase of life. Since I myself come from a nursing area and know how difficult this service is and under what conditions it often needs to be carried out, I would like to thank all the caregivers in the mobile service, in the nursing homes, in hospitals and, of course, also the family members for their personal use, their care and the support of the people on their last way.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7725	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to announce the following: At the suggestion of Mr Khol, I have received the minutes of Mrs Silhavy's speech. Following this speech by Mrs Silhavy, Mr Dietachmayr – in the direction of Mr Schweitzer – called: "Have you had a drink?" Mr Dietachmayr, I think that this is an inappropriate choice of words. The only reason why I do not give you a call for order is that Parliamentary Schweitzer has actually approached the speaker in a way that has missed respect for freedom of speech. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's a demonstration!]] [[Further calls.]] Mr Grünewald spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7769	Mr President. High house! I did not wish to have to correct someone in this debate. My predecessor, however, has just said – I quote –: In contrast to my previous speaker Green Forest, I welcome the fact that the Ecumenical Council is dealing positively with these issues. I can correct you already: I have always welcomed the positive position of the ecumenical council on important things.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7799	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 933 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 115.) 4. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (753 of the Supplements): Federal Law on access to classified information and its safe use (Information Security Act), InfoSiG (941 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7846	We're on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to the honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7873	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that the Information Security Act is in the form of an amendment proposal and that it protects us from the original government proposal. I would like to thank you for that. At the same time, you should thank us for preserving you with our criticism from adopting a law that could not have been seen as progress even in the previous century. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The government template was bad. It took the EU on the pretext to limit the obligation of information to parliaments in EU matters far beyond their desire, and even contrary to their demands, in order to create a system that, in reality, said: Secret is what is classified as a secret, and as a secret it is to be classified what should be secret. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Everyone is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that there are safeguards of confidential information and documents and that protection in the age of PC technology is not only to be defined by the mandatory millimeter strength of the tanks. But we also have constitutional laws, we have standards, we have parliamentary rights, we have rights of the public, the courts, and they should not be restricted by such law. The gross horrors of the draft have been lost in the new version, but there are still provisions which are not acceptable. Unfortunately, some have remained inside, so we cannot and will not agree to this law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the field of application, the Supreme Institutions are now excluded, but the national leaders have been forgotten. Unclearness also creates the formulation of § 1 para. 2, whose last sentence reads: "The transfer of classified information to these institutions and institutions is not subject to any restrictions under this federal law" – that is progress; then the half-rate comes, "but restrictions laid down by international law." What does that mean? What does that mean? Is there a government agreement on the Constitution, and does this half-rate not contrast with paragraph 3, which normalizes something else? It is also unclear that the concerns expressed by the trade union in journalists have been expressed. The Federal Minister has assured us in the Committee that these concerns of the Trade Union for Journalists are unfounded in view of the new draft. However, the government groups were unable to get through to a committee on this point. Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, despite all improvements, it has remained an antique law. It has lost a lot of its attic capacity, but it still has the attitude of a state that is capable of doing what it can do for secrets and the protection of secrets, and does not realize that it is at least as important – in my opinion this is the most important task of a state – to consider, with the same acribie, with the same ingenuity as one can provide its citizens with public, transparency and access to information. Ladies and gentlemen! The day will come when not those who are punished will violate the secrets, but those whom they have before the citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7926	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7947	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, some members of the opposition, in complete recognition of the facts, have claimed that this law serves censorship or also open the door and gate of political arbitrariness. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we all know that this matter is an information security law, i.e. a law that has long been in place in many other European countries. It regulates access to so-called classified information in the area of the Federal Services and also the safe use of this information. It is therefore – and I would like to stress this in particular – about the protection of information received by Austria from its partners and about information from these partners, for which there is a legal or international obligation to keep secret. The Austrian legislator is to pass such a law by a Council Decision of the European Union of 19 December 1970. On March 30, 2001, we had an obligation to do so and we had already committed this law before the 30th century. It will be decided on November. Each state, including any democratic state, has information to protect in the interests of its own security and the security of its international partners. It is important for us, ladies and gentlemen, that this protection is carried out under parliamentary and judicial control. This is the essential difference to any dictatorship or authoritarian form of state. Parliament's right to interact is neither affected nor restricted by this law. If you consider § 1 para. If you look at 2 more precisely, you realize that the transfer of classified information to Members is not subject to any restrictions. Of course, it must be pointed out that protected information is not already included in the replies to questions today, because they are public. The same applies to parliamentary committees of inquiry. The common practice remains that the disclosure of secret information – as before – is subject to special criminal protection: § 310 para. 2 Criminal code, the provisions relating to infringement of official secrecy. Now on the question of why journalists do not fall under the provisions of the Information Security Act, which was repeatedly discussed and discussed in the Committee. The opposition has tried to strike political capital through an uncertainty campaign, but perpetrators within the meaning of the law can only be officials or servants of the federal government or persons entrusted with classified information. Journalists usually do not fall within this category. They will only be punishable if they encourage a person who has access to confidential or secret information to disclose them. – The publication of an unlawfully obtained classified information alone is not punishable in accordance with these criminal provisions. However, it is logical that there should be criminal provisions; this is, of course, also regulated in other countries. In Germany, for example, the transfer of classified data is threatened with a imprisonment of up to a year or a fine. In Luxembourg, the sentence can be between half a year and five years. In Ireland, the maximum penalty for such a crime is seven years imprisonment. The Austrian legislation, which is up to six months of imprisonment or fine, is clearly under this criminal framework. In conclusion: The Federal Government is complying with this law – I say that again – international obligations under international law. It is a good law to protect classified information. It is a necessity to which the coalition parties confess themselves. And, as we all know, there is in reality no alternative either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8022	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8044	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have also brought you something nice, namely an amendment which I am now bringing to the reading: [[Quoted print version removed]] This could be so short because we succeeded in making the major changes. If I say "we," that means: Greens, social democrats and a critical public, especially affected journalists. This time they have drawn the shorter and lost the public debate. But something positive and welcome has also happened: An indescribable template of a descriptive foreign minister has been corrected by Parliament in such a way that the Republic of Austria and Austrian democracy will be dealt with properly and badly. The question of how a member of a government could be taken up by a committee could not be resolved so far. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Foreign Minister! I would like to express the hope of our group here that you will no longer lighten the National Council with such puss in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now you can apply – and this is an objectively justified objection – that this has come from a completely different place, that it has not been your idea. This is the handwriting of certain parts of the turned police. Then I say, yes, right, but that's no excuse for trying to let the law be! If you come to figure out that after the story with the top coward for the second time something was cheered up by the Ministry of the Interior, you should finally say: Not again! Stop it! I can't believe that to the public and to the National Council; I'm changing it myself! You, Mrs. Foreign Minister, were not in a position to do this. This is what we Members have done. I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the government, who had insight and who worked constructively with us here, and of course I thank the honourable Member of the opposition, who brought it so far that the original law was no longer to be maintained. Where has there ever been that in a government template even the title had to be withdrawn, because not even the title has held! All right, get down there! With the little vow: I will never do that again!, this time – just before Christmas – we are exceptionally satisfied. And now to the contents: It has remained a lot, the largest poison tooth has been drawn, some poison teeth are still in the present draft. First: Why should there be prison sentences when a confidential document is passed on? That's totally disproportionate! Mrs Minister, you know exactly how many confidential documents there are and how quickly a document will be confidential in the Republic of Austria. If this goes its way to office, if it comes somewhere short of the official route and makes a detour, then is a prison sentence threatening? – This is, after all, excessive and a means of intimidating officials to prevent them from providing access to information in certain situations to the public and also to Members. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Further: Any person who also uses confidential documents should be checked for safety and reliability. Do you really want to let go of the state police or the army defence force in the case of some 3,500 EU templates with the "confidential", "secret" or "severe secret" stamp on all those who have to do with it in their official capacity? Should it really be, before someone opens an act, on which EU-wide "confidential" insists, his family, his friends, his financial conditions, so all state police are over-checked?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Elder: Fingerprint!]] Do you really want to lose the fingerprints and everything else before the official is allowed to touch the acting lid at all? Is this the idea of information policy in the future of the Republic of Austria? Mrs Bundesminister, you have no idea what you think of the poor state police! They can't, we don't have such a big state police. This might have been done with other state police devices in other times and in other forms of state. But you could not even figure out in the committee how many additional state politicians would be needed for this. Just a little detail: On my question as to how you would imagine a security review, you have – I agree, you are not an expert on internal security and on the implementation of the Security Police Act – explained to me and the Committee: A gentleman assured me that it was fast in three minutes. – There's no "quick washing" in the safety check! There is only the normal security check under the Security Police Act – or none at all. And the Foreign Minister does not have the opportunity to cut down the security police procedure. This would in many cases also not be particularly good for the security of the Republic of Austria. That's the last one. Ladies and gentlemen! An attempt by the Federal Government in connection with many other attempts: Mobile phone surveillance, e-mail surveillance, grid surveillance, everything that happened around new cards – up to the peak ring, to ECIS abuse and much more, to the chip card in social security, to the abuse of social security law data. This is an additional building block to all that we sum up under authoritarian turn. Mrs. Federal Minister! However, the authoritarian turn of this federal government will have to refrain from doing so. In the future, I wish you better government plans, happy Christmas and a good slide – wherever you go! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8160	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8182	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! There has once been a time when a certain Dr. Peter Pilz was a dreaded discoverer in Austria. [[Abg. Achatz: It's been over for a long time!]] Yeah, it's been a long time. – In recent times, it must be noted that Dr. Peter Pilz does not even read the things he talks about, because what he has just given the worst has to do with what is available for discussion today, but not even to do anything. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today we are talking about an information security law that has become necessary in the parliamentary process due to the decisions we have just taken in connection with the administrative reform. In this context, we have found that deregulation means not over-fulfilment of EU standards, but only the necessary implementation. That's exactly what we did with this law. In the parliamentary process, we have developed an information security law that corresponds to the laws of deregulation and precisely what we have committed ourselves to internationally. This law regulates the access to information that we do not need to receive, which we do not produce ourselves, but it is information that other international units – the EU, the WEU or perhaps NATO – provide to us. We have to deal with this information as the sender has previously communicated it to the consignee. We do not need to accept this information, but we will not have it either. But if we need them, we'll be pretty stupid. That is, it simply belongs to the fair handling of partners that you develop game rules and then adhere to them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That's exactly why Dr. Peter Pilz is out of the discussion. That's something new to him. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union has begun to develop the common approach to foreign and security policy. It was clear from that point of view that common information needs to be dealt with from time to time. Since then, the EU's history has developed a way of dealing with classified information. Today we are so far away that we in Austria are adopting a standard in line with the concept developed by the EU, as it is common and planned in Europe, only for information we receive from international organisations. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Thank God!]] This law also covers only persons who are employed as officials or as other persons in the interest of the Federal Government and who voluntarily and themselves undertake to comply with these standards. Nobody else! Everything else is stories from the dream book of Dr. Peter, who hopefully does not want to operate exactly Harakiri. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: holding a pointed object in the hand and passing the speaker's mouth) Peter Pilz!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will now adopt a law that will help us to implement international obligations properly and in a simple way. However, the discussion on this law has also shown that there is an interesting process in the European Union itself: As one has learned to treat information confidentially, one has also learned to implement as much transparency as possible. With 1. In May of this year, it was decided in the European Union that all the information which does not have a trust mark should be available to the public. So since then, there is this Internet address that I would like to communicate to Dr. Peter Pilz, so that he can look at it: ue.eu.int. There, Dr. Pilz finds everything that interests him. By the way, ladies and gentlemen: We have done something with this law, which distinguishes us from the riders. Some in this House believe that they can be anywhere, but not only take on any obligations. We want, I want the European Union to develop well, as well as the Union to continue its successful development and the European Community and security concept to be successful. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally grew up on the so-called dead border, and I therefore know what it means when playing games are safely driven. I therefore also know that this law shows that we are reliable partners that we stand for Europe – and especially we of the Austrian People's Party do so in particular. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8304	The amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Pilz, is sufficiently supported and is therefore in a sufficient context and is therefore also part of the debate or vote. Next, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Ferrero-Waldner, speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8328	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the Information Security Act is not an antique law, but one - as I could already represent in the Committee - that implements, late, what all other EU Member States have long done. I would like to reject the criticism of the original government template that it was not an illogical proposal to try to establish a uniform system for the classification of both own and foreign documents, because the restrictions now imposed on information classified by non-Austrian bodies are better protected than information classified by Austrian departments, based on the classified regulations of the individual departments. I believe that the criticism to this end really lacks any basis. For example, it was assumed that the proposed criminal provisions would be directed against journalists – and that, although you know that, as in § 310 StGB, even after § 9 of this draft, journalists can only make themselves punishable if they are instigating or contributing to the illegal disclosure of information. The draft does not prohibit the publication of unlawfully preserved information. Furthermore, he does not intervene in the protection of sources that journalists enjoy in accordance with § 31 media law, the provisions on editorial secrecy. All of this was also, as I mean, very clear and well-known, but you just tried to score with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Member of the European Parliament I would like to say that the reference to restrictions laid down by international law has been included in the Information Security Act, because it is not intended to give the impression that the transfer of classified documents to those in Section 1 para. 2 Institutions and bodies referred to in the Information Security Act would not be subject to any restrictions. Such restrictions can be imposed on grounds of international law and cannot be repealed by a subsequent law without committing a reasonable illegality of international law in Austria. As far as the relationship with the Austrian federal states is concerned, I would like to point out that the documents classified by the international partners of Austria, to which the draft relates exclusively, usually also concern materials which are federal in legislation and enforcement. Therefore, the constitutional obligation to provide information to the federal states in accordance with Article 23d B-VG cannot be affected at all by the information security law at a simple level. This is also the case in the Information Security Act, in § 1 para. 3, made clear. On the amendment tabled by Mr Pilz: The proposal to supplement the draft in the light of the current ECJ judgment in order to provide for a provision on the right to access to information could have been considered in the framework of the uniform regime proposed by the Government template for the classification of both Austrian and foreign documents, although we are in Article 20 para. 4 B-VG and also in the mandatory information law already have relevant regulations – but in a law on the protection of foreign-classified documents, as is now the information security law, such a provision has no place at all. Access to a foreign-classified document can only be granted if the question arises that the foreign classification has been abolished. In this respect, the draft provides that access should be limited to the extent provided for by the notified bodies and also to the duration provided for by them. As for criminal provisions, you also know that they are necessary to guarantee the full protection of classified documents; otherwise, this would be a lex imperfecta. If you look closely at the proposed criminal provisions, you will find that § 9, as it were, only stops a small gap: This is addressed to persons who had to be entrusted with classified documents, even if they are not officials within the meaning of the Criminal Code, i.e.: Consuls, computer experts. On the practical impact of the Information Security Act, I can only say once again that only handling information classified as confidential or higher requires security checks. This has nothing to do with the number of 55 000, which you, honourable Member Pilz, have mistakenly mentioned in the Committee as merely limited classified information per year. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: 3 500!]] On the other hand, the approximately 3 500 information classified as confidential or higher may be properly treated by the persons already checked or to be checked. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Complete nonsense!]] As has already been said, security checks have been provided for by law since 1999, so it is already possible to use the security checks carried out. – There are also so-called verifications of reliability in the Ministry of State Defense. According to the information provided to me, about 60 persons have been checked in those ministries in which security checks are provided – in other words, in all other than the Ministry of State Defense, where there are verifications of reliability – and another 120 persons are under review for the purpose of the Information Security Act. Security checks can be carried out by the Security Police, by the State Police within 14 days, if necessary, but also within one day. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: What about 3 minutes?]] I have looked at this regulation – I have it here –: BGBl. II 114/2000. It also mentions the questionnaire, with a view to requiring a little more information for confidentially less and for other higher classifications. And that's really quick to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8453	Mr Pilz has made a statement on an actual correction. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8478	The Federal Minister has claimed that in the regulation on the Security Police Act there is a "question sheet" which only needs to be filled out. - That's wrong! This is the security declaration in which information is to be provided and where the signature is to be authorised to be verified by state politicians or during the verification by members of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the army. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's a word report!]] Ms. Federal Minister, where you believe that the review has already been completed, will only begin – and therefore the 14-day time frame. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's a word report!]] Mrs. Federal Minister, you should also read laws prepared by other departments – before giving the House the wrong information here!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8552	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8573	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! The Information Security Act, which will be adopted with the votes of the government parties, has a pre-history, and this pre-history is certainly more revealing than the present draft, on which, admittedly, there have been many positive changes. However, all your objections in spite of: These changes have not occurred until there has been a massive public intervention against your first draft. Finally, you have the responsibility! So you have to make the accusation: either not to look at the design very closely or – which is even worse! – have not, of course, found any objections. The recipients, so to speak, have seen this right from the very beginning. That's what it says in the "Press" of the 2nd century. November 2001 that "after the summer excitement for the "journalists paragraphs" planned by Minister of Justice Dieter Böhmdorfer, there is a renewed unrest, as the draft Information Security Act provides for prison sentences of up to half a year when "confidential information from the federal departments is not published". It also states in this article that journalists' union and experts have warned of the possibility of abuse or the risk of a restriction of information freedom. And – literal quote from the "Press" –: "Journalists could be punished as agents in accordance with the general rules of criminal law if they publish such information." The President of the Journalist Union, Franz C. Bauer, even spoke of white censorship. Andreas Koller wrote in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" of 31. October 2001 – I quote literally – written: "Peter Westenthaler took over the destruction of human existence just a few years ago for a political advantage. Can such a man determine the security policy of an entire country?" Furthermore, this article reads as follows: "As this day has become known, the Austrian government will soon complete its regulation on the monitoring of mobile phone conversations. Another proposal, the Information Security Act, is intended to restrict the publication of sensitive government documents by the media. The common denominator of both drafts is: The population may be controlled more strongly than before, and the government can protect itself better than before from media control." And it's in this article in the "SN": "May be that both serve the defense of terrorism. But it certainly does not serve the preservation of fundamental rights. Especially if the politicians involved lack moral skills, they are responsible for dealing with their extended control rights." - Quote. In fact, there is nothing to add to this quote: "Where denunciatorial politics is successful, resistance becomes a duty." This certainly depends on the fact that this government is suspected of not dealing with fundamental rights in general with enough care. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Oh!]] In this context, for example, I recall the debate on fingerprints, the debate on the strengthening of immigration and asylum policy. I also recall the planned integration treaty, the demand to grant asylum seekers only more asylum when they come from Europe. I remember the top coward who, under extremely obscure circumstances, threatens to disappear completely in the drawer of history. The problem with the information security law now in place: This breathes the same mind, namely: To define security only through police or military aspects or to want to ensure. – And this accusation cannot be undermined by the amendment that has now been tabled. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Very poor applause!]] The central point is a simply Kafkaeske Pittoreske on the regulation of access to classified information with its four levels of classification, including the bureaucratic definition: "limited", "confidential", "secret" and "severe secret", the violation of the highest three levels of secrecy must be punished with a imprisonment of up to six months. – This is, in fact, an exaggerated need for "hygiene", after just compulsive perfection of control of information. That is why, as I believe, the Green amendment is a valuable approach, namely in § 1 para. 1 as an objective to ensure the greatest possible effectiveness of the right of public access to information, because access to information and documents as open as possible is an essential feature of a democratic society and strengthens public confidence in execution. – And this is what this law is about: the tension between access to information and legitimate democratic control. The present amendment by the government groups shows that the first draft has been substantially changed, so now the Supreme institutions are excluded and the parliamentary right of interpolation is not covered, so essentially only the obligations of international law have remained. However, it was also possible – this remains open! – the question of the criminalisation of journalists and questions relating to freedom of the press and information are not to be resolved without rest, especially since you have also been able to look at the conversation with journalists and also with the trade union of journalists and have not been able to solve their concerns without any rest. [[Abg. Grandruck: Completely wrong!]] Also, concerns about security checks could not be eliminated without reserve. These checks will be very complex and very costly. – On the number of reviews: more than 3,000 reviews!, the question will also be to clarify what the security review will look like for these four different levels of classification, and what interventions and insights into privacy will have to be made on the part of officials. These two serious reservations cannot be answered satisfactorily even in the current draft. Therefore, for the reasons mentioned, we will certainly not give our consent to this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8676	The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8698	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! After the first Committee meeting on this proposal for a law, I was interviewed by the ORF and said: With journalists who go beyond laws, my compassion keeps in tight limits! However, what I have not yet done in the Committee is that Members have access to necessary classified information. But this was repaired in the meantime. In this context, I have also given an example, namely a subcommittee of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which we had during the last legislative period, where it was really dared to give the honourable Member empty papers with the 'close' stamp and say: That's none of the Members' business. Mr Arbitrator said earlier that the day will come when those who have secrets from the citizens will have to answer. Mr Schieder, I also wished to see that at the time, but you were one of those who prevented this from happening, who voted against it and refused access to the honourable Member. Therefore: I also feel very sorry for those Members who now, as they are in the opposition, suddenly feel their love for discovering, while they have not brought any syllables to it before. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now of the serious objections to be taken – for some were quite serious... – Now only Mr Jarolim needs to speak, then it fits in with the calls, then the right detectors are together! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Hornek.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Euroteam!]] Now I come from serious objections to the "pastor of the nation", to the colleague Pilz, who has been announced in "NEWS" – but he comes from the beginning, from the political part, more to the chatter and to the social side – that he would have drawn the government's "gift teeth". – Well, he has sprayed his poison here and then left, but he has reached nothing with his objections and with his work, and he – perhaps you can align it to him if it is still worth it – will be less and less achieved with it, for his course and his behaviour is becoming increasingly uninteresting. He can't even get the people here in the house anymore. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It may serve its self-consecration in his Internet diary, which he regularly conducts and which is sometimes quite amusing to read, because it allows conclusions to be drawn on his psyche; otherwise, it is not very much as far as mystery and discovery are concerned. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Großruck]] It is precisely this his leitblatt "NEWS" that makes me insist in great distrust of certain journalistic circles. I remember very well the letter bomb season and the "discoveries" – under quotation marks – that were made in this "beautiful" sheet, which were quoted from files in which people were disturbed to the public, of which it turned out that they had absolutely nothing to do with it. I therefore turn to a group of journalists who want to take out privileges that go beyond those of elected representatives in this House. They are not allowed to do so, and I believe that we need to think very seriously in this direction too. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Then: Who has compensated these citizens? Who helped them to their right after that? – That was said to these journalists here once. I have already said to colleagues Pilz: His cynicism is no longer useful! It is exploited by too frequent and misused use. – Direct the beautiful old Arabic proverb to him: The jackals cry, but the caravan moves on. – A necessary law will be passed!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8778	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8800	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned a few times in the history of this law – I too would like to address it briefly – to which Mr Schultes has noted that it is now necessary to adopt certain standards in line with the EU. Mr Schultes, you know very well that the original law is not just the implementation of the EU Council decision of 19 March. In March 2001, it included much more further measures, of which even the Foreign Minister of the Committee has rightly said that some of the things in this first proposal have also been too strong or gone too far. – Now it says again: If we had agreed to the first proposal, you would also have accepted our amendment. Well, Mrs Minister, that you throw this sugar and at the same time justify the first draft, that certainly does not taste to us, and that will certainly not lead us to agree to this proposal now! [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr Ferrero-Waldner]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Member of Parliament, young man! You said that Mr Pilz did not do anything. Finally, during these pre-negotiations, you were aware of the fact that some of the proposals that have served to pull the poison tooth of this law came from the Greens and from Mr Pilz, and not from you. That's very good to recognize! [[Abg. Young: You with your omnipotent fantasies!]] It has nothing to do with omnipotence, but it is quite clearly understandable. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Young.]] Either you weren't there, or maybe you were there too, but only virtual – I don't know. In any case, you seem to have not compared the original proposal with the present one, or you do not want to realize that the proposals of the Greens and the Social Democrats have led to the removal of the poison teeth of this law. That's it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Young: Believe it!]] That is to be recognized, but unfortunately not everything is the way we would imagine it. [[Abg. Young: Thank God!]] It is surprising that although you, Mrs Minister, have also said in the Committee that this law is directed against journalists, it is absolutely incorrect, while Member Young is now saying: [[Abg. Jung: Against journalists who violate the law!]] Well, some journalists already have too many privileges that they take out, and against them it is already directed! [[Abg. Young: I didn't say that!]] If it were your intention to make it quite clear that this law is against no journalists, no editors, then you would have been able to put it in the explanations! But there is no word in it. Or at least you could have made it possible to establish a committee in the Committee. – Nothing of that was important to you! Therefore, certain doubts remain here – otherwise you would have written them in. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] To our amendment: If you read it carefully, you could see that the aim of this federal law is to "give the right to access to information as much as possible to the public", and that we also wanted to anchor it in this information security law. Mr Spindelegger, who is no longer speaking here today, said in the Committee that if we are here trying to advance a law on the limitation of information, it is necessary to "give the right to access to information as much as possible". [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: That's it!]] [[Call to the liberals: Right!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] Mr Spindelegger, you seem to have not understood that we are really concerned with defining the right of the public to information, on the basis of which it is then possible to say that there can be certain restrictions, but only if you do not limit the necessary and legal minimum. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Spindelegger.]] We also have in the Committee the very current judgment of the European Court of Justice of 6. It is also a reason for you to agree to at least this amendment if you do not wish to postpone the law even further in order to see what the European Court of Justice will decide on. In this judgment, which the Green MEPs of Europe have put forth, and which has even joined many countries, such as Denmark, Sweden, Finland and the United Kingdom, the European Court of Justice notes that the principle of proportionality requires that exceptions should not go beyond what is appropriate and necessary in order to achieve the objective pursued. This would mean, for example, that it is already possible that, even in the case of confidential information after an examination, parts of the information may be passed on very well after those parts that are truly confidential have been unmistakable. You can do that quite simply by pushing it through. [[Call the ÖVP: For what purpose?]] This has now been decided by the European Court of Justice. [[Abg. Young: You probably don't understand...!]] They do not seem to be really aware of this, but they continue to insist on a law that sets out, in particular, the restriction and not the right of the public to access. As you know, we cannot accept this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9000	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9040	Mr President. Highly esteemed Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It was Mr Pilz who had previously been out here. [[Abg. Boy: Now he's outside!]] I know we are not a club of sweetwood rasplers, but what Mr Pilz has given of himself has already been far from being of the highest quality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] I should just like to remind you of the way in which he has dealt with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany. It is you, Mrs Lichtenberger, who would have to stand behind or before the Minister for Women's Rights if she were approached by a colleague in this House in such an inconvenient way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If I were a Member of the Greens, I would in all forms apologize to the Federal Minister for the behaviour of a colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the majority of the House is also my opinion on this issue, but you can't do anything about a bad children's room, which Mr Pilz seems to have had at the age. That's his fate. We regret that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There's a ranking of terms. In Austria, for example, we have the term "zero deficit" at the top of the list. If one were to create a ranking of terms of opposition, then as a result we would receive the "no" or at least the "yes, but". Today we are again experiencing a No to a law that would deserve the approval of all. There was no opposition to the behavioural agreements in school, there was a no on school statistics, on the Austrian security doctor, on the Federal Criminal Office, on pension reform, on budget renewal, on greater security for citizens in expanding the arrest methods. Today's coming back. No to the Information Security Act. But quite interesting and different from the other No is the Eiertanz, which is listed to come to a No. There's feelings, there's suspicions, there's suspicions. You should just read the law to see what's really in it! I recall that Mr Schieder, as his chairman, has literally said to Mrs Federal Minister: How can you make the journalist feel that they are not being punished? – So, I think, the O-text is from the committee. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's how it is!]] - So similar. [[Abg. Arbitrators: It was only German! It was German!]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen: If the law clearly states who is punished, who has consequences if he passes on information – that is, only the person who unwarrantedly passes on information, and not the one who receives it – then the great circle of journalists is excluded from this criminality. It doesn't change! – But to interpret here that journalists would be at risk of being at risk of free access to information, that is what has happened to the hair of a smooth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] That has nothing to do with reality! It is quite decreed inside that there is no punishment for journalists if they get secret information, but very well for those who pass it on. We experience it every year again how it works: The Court of Auditors' raw materials reports would also be secret and should not be passed on. And what happens? – The newspapers deliver a race for who is the first to publish the Court of Auditors' raw report before the Members even have it. [[Abg. Murauer: That's in the paper!]] That's forbidden, too. Have you ever heard that anyone would have been condemned in this regard? - You can't find the culprit. On the basis of this fact, no one has been condemned by the journalist, ladies and gentlemen. It is also in accordance with this Information Security Act: There are no restrictions on the right of interconnection. There are no restrictions on the control law of the Court of Auditors. Parliament itself has the rules on how to deal with these data. So it's all clear. And if you complain, ladies and gentlemen, that the law at the beginning was much more angry and bigger, then you are pleased that we are today adopting a law concerning that in the discussion, in which consideration has come out that it actually pleases everyone that could actually agree to everyone! But, ladies and gentlemen, this is your categoric No: What can't be, can't be. – You are operating again today’s total opposition! That is why I am finally allowed to express a wish to the Christian child with a four-liner: Dear Christian Child! Please let red and green open a light, and let these two know: First Austria – then the party!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9161	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9191	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Well, we've also got lay-backs here in Parliament – more and less original. [[Call the ÖVP:Very original!]] That might be a great thing for the "musical stadium"! That would be the right actor! – I congratulate you on this policy a great policy of black and blue! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the ÖVP: "Euroteam"!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] At the beginning of my brief remarks, I would like to say a warm thank you to all those who have formed this alliance of reason, which has made it possible for a law to be passed here today in this House, which is not, at least, the law you originally wanted to decide, which would certainly have resulted in an international blamage for us and which in a rare way would have expressed the repressive basic mood of this coalition. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign]] I am glad that there have been many people in science, politics, in the end, but also many people on the street who have expressed their views on the original draft of this law within the framework of their opinion and in various other ways. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: On the street?]] You can't hide what a government is up to! You have failed to implement this law – at least not yet; Mr Jung von der FPÖ has explained that he will continue his efforts to ensure that it is still coming. But you have not been successful so far, and we must be happy about that, because that is certainly a bit of a pleasure. It is less gratifying that this law is naturally to be considered in an overall context and that this overall context is a very terrifying one. Mr Klubobmann Khol always speaks so great about the "citizen society": I wonder how this citizens' society, these human rights, which are supposed to be in the citizen's society, is manifesting here in your laws, Mr Khol! I would like you to explain what happened to you at the time when you defended the first draft law, according to which simply and simply all the documents in Austria – now only the foreign documents – should be fitted more or less arbitraryly with secret signs and subsequently a criminality should be connected. – Pure arbitrariness, ladies and gentlemen! You don't need to be proud of such a law. Mrs Foreign Minister, I must tell you that I did not understand that you were actually going through this uncontrolledly! If Mr Grossruck here speaks of propriety and dignity, this cannot mean that one cannot deal with the responsibility of a single minister of a government! If I just look at what dilettantism – this is a milder expression – was done in the case of Genoa: You have not been afraid to harm people, Austrians and Austrians, by publishing completely irrelevant administrative data abroad! [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign]] Mrs Foreign Minister, I do not think and I do not want to assume that it was your intention; it may have been ignorance, but it is both equally dangerous. – These are things you have to say here! This is not about charming or not charming, but it is simply about a threat to the Austrians in the country or abroad. This is the point, Mr Grossruck, and we must take note of that. Unfortunately, the draft law in its present form is not really consistent, and I am wondering why the way to a committee statement is that the journalists should not at least be taken by this law, because it was so insurmountable. What a mistake it would have been to establish a committee – just a committee statement! – to meet and write into this, what you all, including Klubobmann Khol, always notice in this context? If that were really your intention, which you also stated in the section 56 criminal code, that it should not happen to journalists, then you would have brought so much security into this debate with this small statement that it might have been more possible for us to agree to this law. – Thus, the spirit that blows behind the law is quite clearly the one that is also behind the military power law and all the other repressive laws. Ladies and gentlemen! You are reserved to continue on this wave. I am saving the picture, Mr Khol – it is a synonym of what you stand for. I think it is clear to you why we do not agree here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9279	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. At the same time, I would ask you to lower the noise level a little! It is otherwise very difficult for the speaker to make himself understandable.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9309	Mr President. Highly esteemed Mrs. Federal Minister! Appreciate Members of Parliament! In the discussion, the opposition was almost exclusively concerned with what is not in the law. I'll deal with what's in the law. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We live in the information age, at a time when it is required to have information available in seconds. This rapid availability of information, including very confidential information available globally from different bodies, requires international standards for the security of these documents. The objective of this Information Security Act is the implementation of international obligations of Austria for the safe use of classified information in the Federal Services. International cooperation in the field of communication requires clear legal requirements, mutual trust and information security. This law therefore provides the basis for smooth cooperation beyond the borders of Austria. Security has become one of the most important needs of people. We comply with this law on the one hand with the given international standards and on the other hand with the safety needs of the people. In view of international terrorism, it is an hour to create the necessary framework conditions in order to protect confidential documents. It is generally known that information security in the Ministries has so far been regulated in accordance with the so-called "closure regulation" and the requirements for the protection of official secrecy. However, these rules relate only to officials, but not to other persons to whom classified documents have to be entrusted, such as consuls or computer experts. In principle, it should be noted that the Information Security Act refers only to non-Austrian documents already classified. In order not to confront the administration with a number of international classifications, for reasons of administrative simplification, the documents are divided into four levels: first: "limited", second: "confidential", third: "secret", fourth: "severe secret" – a classification that cannot be carried out by officials arbitrarily, but, like any administrative activity, is very likely to be subject to the control of the courts of public law. In order to ensure uniform enforcement throughout the scope of application, an information security regulation binding on all Federal departments should be adopted on the basis of the law. An information security officer shall be appointed in each Federal Ministry. This is subject to the supervision of compliance with the provisions of this Federal Act. Ladies and gentlemen! The Information Security Act is a necessary and appropriate step towards a smooth and secure process in international communication. – Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9363	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 941 of the Supplements. Mr Pilz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a supplementary or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Pilz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional request to insert a new paragraph. 1 in § 1 and the insertion of a new paragraph 1 in § 6 and the resulting changes in the number designations. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign in this regard. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Dr. Pilz, colleagues and colleagues have tabled an amendment which includes the deletion of Sections 9 and 10 as well as the resulting changes in paragraph numbering. I am looking for those members of the House who are in favour of an appropriate sign. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign of confirmation. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 5. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (763 of the Supplements): Agreement on the Enforcement of Patient Rights (Patent Charter) (932 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9443	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. In order to make a correction, I shall give the floor to Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9464	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I shall make the following correction to the Committee's report 932 of the Supplements. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign]] On page 2, the voting result is the order of the word "by majority".
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9494	Thank you, rapporteur. First of all, Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9519	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Front: We agree with the Article 15a agreement with Lower Austria on the Charter of Patients, especially since we have already agreed to agreements with the Federal States of Carinthia, Upper Austria, Styria and Burgenland in the past. Discussions on the further development and codification of patient rights have continued for years. It has been shown that the causes of the problems do not exist in missing patient rights, but are in the area of enforceability of already secured rights, because the rights are distributed to a wide variety of federal and national rules. This patient charter now summarizes the existing regulations of civil and institutional law so that they become more understandable. Even if the patient charter is an improvement, we Social Democrats will nevertheless continue to adhere to a federal uniform rule, which should at least be wider, deeper and more concrete, so that the patient rights for all patients in Austria, from Vorarlberg to Burgenland, are the same. Discussions in the Committee have shown that the Ministry of Health has little interest in a federal system. State Secretary Waneck said that we should first try to get all nine federal states into the boat and then think about improvements. Mr State Secretary, I invite you to do everything you can to get the missing of the nine federal states into the boat as quickly as possible, in order to address the improvements you have announced. There is undoubtedly a broad need for this. In this context, allow me to point out at least one need: The patient charter refers to all health care services, including extramural services. A central area in this Charter is section 4, the "right to self-determination and information", and this is not implemented at all in the extramural area. We receive confirmation of this if you count back from the number of health certificates to the time a doctor spends with the patient. Therefore, further development means, among other things, information – not only about disease patterns, but also about health care and risks – in the settled area, as only there are preventive measures and permanent therapies. This is necessary because German studies show us that 50 to 60 percent of patients are chronically ill and are, for the good part, ill or not aware of the long-term consequences of their illness. That is why there is a need for action, Mr State Secretary, but not only on this point. Ladies and gentlemen! We Social Democrats want comprehensive and equal patient rights for all patients in Austria and will continue to stick to this objective in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9578	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9599	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We all here in Parliament have a big goal and we also pursue this great goal of ensuring patient rights, putting patient rights in the foreground and ultimately anchoring patient rights in a federal law. Unfortunately – that has already been said – this is simply not possible because of the different powers and competences at the moment. However, we have decided to go a path which is accompanied by the Article 15a agreements concluded with the countries. I think these are a good path guide, and I would like to stress here once again that Carinthia has also played a pioneering role in this area. Finally, it was the head of the state of Carinthia who signed the first of these agreements. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – You see, when you speak the word "cards" here, you always get applause. So I'll do that more often in the future. In principle, it is to be said: We are of course very pleased that, after Carinthia, Burgenland and Upper Austria, Lower Austria is also part of this circle. But we should keep in mind the final objective on this issue, namely a truly viable law at the federal level for the sick, whose relatives, the profession of the caregivers, the doctors, the hospital operators and so on. An overall solution in this area is very important. Mr State Secretary! They are on the right path and will surely also achieve this goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9642	Next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9663	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the Government's agreement on health, we have clearly set ourselves the goal of strengthening patient rights, anchoring and developing even more firmly. As the colleagues have already said in advance, the problems became apparent in the first discussions: that there is too little information here and that the problems are often also enforceable. That is why I am very glad that we are now making this patient charter a reality in Lower Austria. For the first time, all patient rights are securitised, in which everything is visible and summarized at a glance. I think that's good, too, because the people, the patients have a right to know what rights they have and where they can go when they have problems and feel unjustly treated. That's exactly the situation. The patient's charter is justifiable. In Lower Austria we have 27 hospitals, where more than 300,000 patients are treated. In the care homes of Lower Austria, more than 10,000 people are treated and cared for by competent staff, by doctors and nurses, who really make full use of them every day. Especially these patients have a right to their rights. We all know that, although there are a large number of rights, patients are often unable to enforce their right, mostly because of incomprehensible formulations, because of uninformedness or because of the fact that certain patients encounter their borders. I think it's with the patient charter that we're right to help the patient. While so far only those who have had the necessary knowledge or financial resources could enforce their right, this should now be easier for all. With the patient charter, we achieve greater efficiency and transparency in health care as well as, above all, rapid professional advice and help. It is very important to us in Lower Austria that every patient is informed about the patient charter. That is why there is also a detailed brochure, in which everything is explained in detail, practical examples are cited and questions and answers can be read. With the present patient charter – in Upper Austria, Carinthia and Burgenland – we also take a right step towards more patient rights and further development of our health system in Lower Austria. I think this patient charter leads to patients having greater confidence. It strengthens confidence and leads above all to greater human kindness and greater satisfaction in hospitals and nursing homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9709	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9739	Westenthaler welcomes me with "Good evening!" – This honor is new to me, but I am glad, and I give it back. Everyone says that they are glad that the patient charter after the Burgenland, to Carinthia and Upper Austria is now also in Lower Austria. That may be. I'm also happy about it, but I'm not happy yet! I already agree with the SPÖ: We should ask ourselves which emergency solution – as it is thought – is this patient charter. It has been heard that the laws are fragmented between the federal government and countries, they are inconspicuous, one would have to change the constitution in order to assign these competences to the Federation and have a uniform nationally uniform patient law regime. So this clarity is made. My previous speaker is right: It is more transparent to summarize these materials per state. But if you look at this transparency, then, I must say, you understand the resistance of the countries, because much of what the federal government has intended or intended to do has been watered down at country level – I say it discreetly and very politely – something. Often there is a collection of natural things here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When I read – and this is not against Lower Austria: "The Contracting Parties undertake that clinical trials of medicinal products,... as well as the use of new medical methods may only be carried out after an in-depth ethical assessment.", I have to say: Now only! But what does "introductory" mean in Carinthia, what does it mean in Burgenland, and what does it mean in Upper Austria? Where Article 14 provides: "It must be ensured that visits can be received in the context of stationary care," I say again: Now only! "Great" achievement, these patient rights – hear, hear, you can also receive visits! Article 15 states: "In stationary facilities, death is to be made possible in dignity." That's what we're doing with the survey, and they all agreed. But if it is a matter of paying for it, taking spatial measures, planning in new buildings spaces of farewell, or paying for renovations also spaces for the possibility of departure, then the patient charter is probably not the starting point to achieve this. Article 15 also states: "Confidentials of patients and patients are an opportunity to contact dying people." – What does this opportunity look like? Is it a visit to the Broom Chamber? Is it a visit to the gang? What does that mean? – So: not bad, but happy you won’t. I wonder where the resistance to federal uniform regulations comes from. You don't need a lot of imagination for the answer: The federal states – as well as the Republic of Austria, I admit – never have any joy when they have to pay anything. Quality in health care, however, is not something that is free of charge, which can be applied by the Sternsinger action or where pathfinders replace professional help in the death accompaniment. It won't come to that. That means there are several points that I miss in the charts at all. The psychological care is only inadequately contained in sections. In young people, the inclusion of accompanying persons – their parents, mothers or other confidants – is also only a possibility and is only mentioned in the conjunctiv. The rights of disabled people are hardly anchored. Even for palliative medicine, for example at intensive care stations, there is no legal protection. As far as medical liability is concerned, I could give you an example from Tyrol. There you propose a compensation officer who is at the same time head of the Conciliation Body in the Tyrolean Medical Chamber. Who should be his representative? – The representative of the Deputy Chairperson of the Tyrolean Chamber of Physicians! Who should be the expert? – The expert who works for the arbitration office of the Tyrolean Medical Chamber! To do this, I have to say: Please, let us look at regulations and frameworks here, which do not allow for such interpretations! But I still give my predecessor and even the ministry the right to: I am glad that there is, and we agree. Fortunately, we are not, and we must bear in mind that federalism does not go so far in the medium term that nothing can be regulated at the level of the Republic and the National Council. I'd think this was bad.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9813	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9835	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker from my group has already stated that we will agree to this first step towards the Charter of Patients and Patients, but this can only be a first step. This step needs to be followed by a lot more to give patients in this country more opportunities and more rights. It is also very crucial and important in this context that patients get more overview of their rights. It is currently true that there is a very large lack of information and they often do not have the opportunity to really get to their right. Therefore, it is a good first step to bring this cross-section matter into a frame. However, this step must be followed by further action. I therefore believe, as did my previous speaker, that it will be necessary to create a federal, Austrian-wide law in which the rights of patients are well, clearly and equally regulated for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9868	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9889	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The title story of a German health magazine is: "Sacrifice or Sovereign – the protected patient". The beginning of this title story is: "The patient in Watte packs, suffocates in legal "overprotectionism" or rather acting freely decisively and self-responsiblely, between these two extremes commuting the current discussion about patient rights in Germany." Ladies and gentlemen! Here in Austria, as you know, we are much further. Following the bilateral conclusion with the federal states of Burgenland, Upper Austria and Carinthia, Lower Austria has now also expressed the desire to sign the Article 15a Agreement. This Charter of Patients includes – if anything is worthy of improvement, I can only agree to you – the right to treatment and care, and in particular the right to adequate pain treatment, which I consider to be very important, the right to dignity and integrity, the right to self-determination and information, the right to documentation, also the right – which was not always so self-evident, but is now at least really documented – to take into account the history of health and findings and to take them with them into another handler, specific provisions for children, the representation of patient interests and the enforcement of claims for damages. Patient protection and citizens' participation in health care, these topics have a high level of economic activity and will continue to have high levels of economic activity with us and in all other European countries. A red-green government, the red-green coalition in Germany has attached it to its flags to enforce these rights – ladies and gentlemen, here in Austria it has implemented the blue-black government!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9926	Next, Mr Waneck is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9947	Mr President. High house! Today, from the point of view of the health sector, is a very successful day, because a third item on the agenda is already approved unanimously. I think the matter of the patient charter is also worth the fact that there is unanimity. A few concerns have been raised, and the concerns are certainly justified when this may not have been the last word in this sense. But it is a significant beginning, and this shows ultimately the interest of the federal states, who after initial hesitation have now found themselves ready to join this Charter with the Confederation. These are now four countries, namely Carinthia, Upper Austria, Burgenland and Lower Austria, and are already involved in the ongoing proceedings of Styria and Tyrol. Finally, Vienna has now expressed its interest in joining this Charter, so that the call for me to make an effort to join all the federal states only concerns Salzburg and Vorarlberg. I believe that the conditions can also be created for this. They have correctly recognized that the Charter of Patient Rights has emerged from the fact that this cross-sectional matter is regulated in numerous laws and regulations or legal systems of the federal and state governments. It is therefore not a new creation in the sense, but a work that is worth being brought close to the patient. It is written in such a way that it is also readable and gives a good overview. As a learned Austrian, I realized from the beginning that it would probably have taken much longer effort to create a work in the constitutional rank immediately – I think patient rights would be worthy enough to be included in the Austrian Constitution – and to implement it in a foreseeable, reasonable period of time. Events like those in Upper Austria – not only some time ago, but also last but not least – have shown how necessary it is to be active here. That is why I am very pleased that there is now another country that joins it. But I take note of the call made by a word by Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach: What thou hast done, forgetful; what is to be done, remember!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9983	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The necessary quota is already available. We are now voting on the request of the Health Committee to approve the conclusion of the current agreement in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act in 763 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I note the unanimous adoption. 6. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (777 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Medicines Act, the prescription law, the Pharmacopoeia Act, the Medical Product Law and the Pharmacopoeia Code (934 of Supplements) 7. Point Report and request of the Health Committee on the draft Federal Law establishing a Federal Law on the Use of Medicinal Products for Food (TAKG) and a Federal Law on the Importance of Medicinal Products (Law 2002) amending the Veterinary Act (935 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 506/A (E) by Mrs Manfred Lackner, Members of Parliament, on studies on the use of adult drugs in pediatric medicine (936 of the supplements) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment 507/A (E) by Mrs Manfred Lackner, Members and colleagues, on improvements in the authorisation of proprietary medicinal products for children and adolescents (937 of the supplements) 10. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 508/A (E) by Mrs Manfred Lackner, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the review of the re-admission of medicinal products for children and adolescents (938 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10086	We shall now proceed to points 6 to 10 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. Reporting does not take place, so we are going directly into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10113	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The President-in-Office has already presented the wide range of proposals on which a decision is now to be taken. I would like to deal with two agenda items, on the one hand with the federal law, which amends the pharmaceutical law, the prescription law, the pharmacy law, the medical device law and the medicine book law, on the other hand with the veterinary drug control law. The first government template we now have to discuss includes primarily the implementation of the Anti-Doping Convention, so that it should be possible to find out, but also to pursue, doping errors accordingly. We do not hide that there is a huge problem here, on the one hand in the gyms, on the other hand in the sports sector. They know the examples of the Giro d’Italia, the field of athletics or, as in the last winter season, that of the Finnish cross-country national team. There is a need for uniform rules, and this is also required by the European side. On the other hand, the fitness institutes mean a problem that is underestimated from my point of view. After a German study, every fifth recreational athlete who regularly exercises in a fitness institute swallows anabolics to increase performance. However, side effects are not considered and are hardly known. What are these side effects? – These can be severe liver and kidney disorders, increased blood pressure, water storage, hair loss, vascular damage as well as men’s testicular reduction and poor quality of sperm. Women are threatened with an irresistible premise. Therefore, such regulations – and I emphasize this – are absolutely necessary! Mr State Secretary! We are not satisfied with the draft itself. We, the Socialist Group, believe that such an anti-doping rule should basically be standardised in a law of our own. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Does he represent none? Mr Maier. Does he not represent anyone?]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! If one deals in detail with the Anti-Doping Convention, with the Council's recommendation, with the recommendation of the European Parliament, but also with the recommendation of other international sports bodies, and compares this with what is now standardized in § 68a, then one simply finds deficits. Let me give you an example: It is not regulated in the matter of control – although it is contained in the explanations, but not in the text of the law – whether it is possible to control before or after training. A particular problem is that of horse-edoping. Here we have an international problem. They only depend on buildings and the like, but not on vehicles, although we know that such resources are stored there. This is a reason for us to see these provisions very critical. Mr State Secretary! I also miss clear provisions regarding the amendment of the Medical Products Act. I do not want to have a discussion about the Gauneries that are taking place in the field of magnetic field therapy products. Mr. Federal Minister, I'm just saying: As far as the announcement we have received is concerned, there will be a sales regulation that will prevent doctors from earning 250 000 S and more, you have not used the possibility to eliminate this. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! From our point of view, a path is being taken in the veterinary medicine law, which is simply wrong. I just want to quote one provision. In § 11 you have a criminal provision, which reads: "Who introduces veterinary medicinal products that may cause sustainable or severe health damage to humans in a large amount..." must be punished. I say quite clearly to you: It doesn't count on the amount, on the dose! In the Drugs Act you went down with the limit values regulation, and here you believe that a "great amount" is the criterion for whether it comes to a health damage or not. We therefore reject this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on behalf of our group, I should like to say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, – These two templates do not comply with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10189	The next speaker is Mr Zellot. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10210	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! From this range of agenda items and laws I deal with the veterinary medicinal products control law. Mr Maier, I do not really see that by you this veterinary drug control law, which is a law for more control, for tighter control, for more accurate control with farmers, consumers and veterinarians, is that such a reasonable law, which has finally been brought on board by the Federal Minister of Justice, is being rejected. [[Abg. Huber: You don't believe that!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This legislation on veterinary medicinal products not only lays down strict frameworks for the use of veterinary medicinal products, but also provides the basis for effective control and, above all, for persecution. It is necessary, on the one hand, to ensure high safety and efficacy of the medicinal product for treated animals, on the other hand to protect the health of the consumer of food of animal origin and to ensure high quality of the products. Ladies and gentlemen! All legal and administrative provisions in this field are primarily designed to protect public health. Thus, the criminal framework was extended to three years. Certain uses of antibiotics, hormones and vaccines are prohibited. The possession of veterinary medicinal products for use in farmed animals is also prohibited. The delivery of medicinal products is strictly controlled and the storage rules are to be observed. Above all, the use of medicines is only possible after diagnosis by a veterinarian. Only those plants that have an excellent and optimal hygiene level as well as optimal management can carry out the microplasma vaccination in piglets themselves in conjunction with the veterinarian. In the future, the Austrian farmers will of course assume their responsibility and produce food of the highest quality on the basis of the applicable legal bases. However, what is needed in the future is the establishment of an animal health service, which clearly regulates and controls rights and obligations between veterinarians and farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! If this legislation on veterinary medicinal products provides for an exact obligation of at least five years to demonstrate the obligation of records, to require more cooperation between farmers and veterinarians, requires that the medicinal products be administered only under veterinary supervision, that the animal health service is installed and prescribed, and that the veterinarian should visit the farmer six times a year in order to conduct consultation and information talks, this is a law for more control and more trust between farmers, veterinarians and consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10252	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10273	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor spoke of "people's health". I believe that the expression belongs to the past in two respects: firstly, for reasons of reference to certain historical terminology and secondly, because this bill, this bill, which is to be adopted today, is not, in our opinion, a contribution to the protection of consumers and no contribution to better health protection. I can do this in detail. Point one: As essential from my point of view, it should be noted that Mr. Haupt is not present now that he is a item on the agenda, which in a certain context... [[Abg. Ing. Scheuch: The Lord Van der Bellen is not here either!]] Yeah, he's sick. Mr. Van der Bellen is sick at home. Mr. Haupt was here at 2 p.m. or 3 p.m., I think. [[Abg. Witchlands: This can't be a problem if the Secretary of State is here!]] That's not a problem. I am satisfied that at least he is here, but I would point out that Mr. Haupt is not here, although that is the only item on the agenda where we can really discuss the current situation in the food sector in Austria. Up to now, Mr. Minister had made a statement twice yesterday, and each time – from his wait that this was undisputed, tactfully very skillful – he had chosen a time when his statements could no longer be discussed. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You want to see it like that!]] From its perspective, it is tactically skillful, but from our parliamentary perspective and from the perspective of the affected population, which also has a right to controversial discussion and that some fingers are also put in a wound by the members of the party, the Minister Haupt only mentions indirectly, that is not correct. That is why we had the idea and have also taken the initiative to hold a question with him this afternoon, because this would have been the only way to discuss the current situation directly with him. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yesterday, the SPÖ asked Mr Molterer to speak and answer. We asked him today. He refused or objected to your club speakers' objections. The President, out of the opportunity and from Pietät towards today's act of state, also wanted to give up on it, and now, where the last possibility is that the Minister should speak and answer, he is not here. I'm sorry, but that's soft pub, really smooth pub. Please, direct this to him! Now that we finally want to discuss the situation, Mr. Minister Chief! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: It is unheard of to accuse the Minister of cowardice!]] [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] I've...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10363	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I do not think that it is possible to describe the behaviour of a Federal Minister, a behaviour that conforms to our Rules of Procedure. I ask you to distance yourself from such names!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10409	Thank you, Mr President. – This is my subjective impression, and I have the right to express my subjective feelings. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Excuse me!]] There is this possibility in the Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Excuse me, but with propriety!]] Sorry, that wasn't an insult, I didn't say any untruth, I articulated my subjective sensation. Mr Pumberger, you do it very often. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Take care!]] [[Further lively calls to the liberals.]] I'm completely correct, Mrs. Partik-Pablé. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Your language is not correct! This is an uplifting of the Minister!]] I think it's incorrect when you call. I'm speaking now, and your behavior is discrediting itself. - Thank you. Back to the situation. The Minister is not present – he is unaware, but we criticize it. Well, that might make sense. I wanted to speak in this debate about his actions on the BSE case or about his actions in terms of consequences from the pig mast scandal for him. I think he has responded very well. He has used the means in his hand optimally, the problem is that he has used the missing resources – Mrs. Achatz, I am entirely of your opinion; unfortunately, it is not here; I have suspected you in your place – not getting – what you are always overly competent, perhaps overstated, as an inadequate situation of competence – that he does not use this occasion to finally make political order in the middle federal administration, says: to get slaughterhouse control, feed control from the agricultural sector into the consumer and health sector. [[Abg. Achatz: ( sitting in the first bank series) I'm here!]] [[Abg. Weekly countries: If you would look here!]] I wanted to hear that from his side too, and I wanted to cheer him up, and this is also an urgent command of the hour, even in the face of various mistakes in the past. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] He himself also pointed out in a food survey that he lacks some skills and that he wants to go to work more closely. I quote here from page 9 of the survey report on food safety, which was in February, where he announced: "In my ministry, starting with my management in October, we have already caused a veterinary drug transport law to be developed. This is now" – that was in February – "so far that at the next government meeting" – which would have been in the middle of February – "will be adopted and can then go into consideration. This veterinary drug transport law – that's what I said at the time – "is simply and simply saying that the possession of illegal drugs is already punishable on transport." – It remained, with a delay of a quarter of a year. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You wanted to delay it again! They wanted to put it off the agenda!]] But what has now happened – I do not understand that, and I have also discussed it in the Committee with the Minister – is that in this proposal, the storage and prevention of medicines and also vaccines in the quota of one month is legalized and established by law. Please, check with the veterinarians – I did it in part – and they will point out that the monthly requirement is many times higher, because there is currently no feeding medicine whose use is indicated for more than two weeks. If I can and should use a medicine in feed for a maximum of two weeks, I do not understand why I now have to make a law which allows me to keep a monthly supply on the spot. Explain this to me! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With this law you open the door and the door for what is actually this law against abuse. I am very much in favour of the medium-sized companies that produce high-quality businesses. However, this requires a serious control policy and a serious legal framework. They do their own clientele, their own farmers a bear service if you decide a law that calls the black sheep straight. [[Abg. Wenitsch: There the farmers will have a joy with your speech!]] These are my concerns, and I would also like to tell the Minister personally, in addition to a second subject, which is also very important to me, because the negotiations have now taken place again for what is meant to be the second big answer to the food crisis a year ago. The first big answer is today's law, now called veterinary drug control law, and the second big answer was in January: Establishment of a food safety agency. Here too, the Minister has simply released terrain. Here he would have the possibility that as Minister of Consumer Protection, as Minister of Health, as the only minister of Social Affairs, he would be able to bring the overall competence of control, so to speak from the stable to the table. But what? An agency structure is planned – at present still in the drawer – in which the Ministry of Agriculture will again rule significantly and probably nominate the relevant managing director, because it is personally identical with the head of the Federal Office. I do not understand that as a Freedom Party with a Minister of Health from your ranks, who understands something about his trade, namely veterinary medicine and control, you allow agriculture to widen out in your own sector. I don't understand! This is what I wanted to give to the Minister today, so that he can finally stand on his feet, because so far we do not know anything about it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One final aspect of this second essential state of food safety and food safety and consumer protection and consumer safety is the financial security of this planned agency. That is where it looks, Mr President, relatively bad. You know, it's been negotiated over and over again. The Minister of Finance wants to achieve the zero deficit, and one way to do this is not only to disburse 1,200 officials, but also to help reduce the basic funding for all federal institutions, including the Federal Research Centre for Agriculture, from currently budgeted 1.1 billion schilling to 750 million schilling in 2006. That's 25 percent less! Watch your own branch again! You reduce the control that is the basis for the quality of your products. I don't understand. I wanted to discuss this with the Minister. But it can be cleared like a Christian tree. That seems to be the season now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10582	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10603	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser, with a truly admirable suffering, has now tried the Spagate between what she has some idea of and what she has just discussed, but unfortunately by the wrong ones, for I really cannot find the connection, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. Lunacek: "Lead pressure"?]] In your last remarks, you have spoken of this control. I can tell you: This government is planning – and will continue to implement it in spring – an agency for food safety, which is quite simply because all of us have a lot to do with food safety. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Sale of control!]] In contrast to you, Mr Pirklhuber, who is always happy to talk about it, we are interested in a reasonable, healthy dialogue between consumers and producers. We are interested in a genuine and honest partnership between veterinarians and farmers and also with consumers. That is the content of this law, and everything else will be advised later. Secondly, If it bothers you that Mr. Minister is not here, I would point out that the Secretary of State is present. He has done a great job in the negotiations, just as he has done the Prime Minister and the officials of this department. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The fact that the law as such is not bad also shows the words of power. Maier. I know him as someone who really deals with matter very thoroughly. He did not raise any material objections, he just talked about the fact that § 11, the criminal provisions, bothered him a little. That, please, won't be the problem. I now come to the important parts of this law matter, whose solution was the real concern of this law. You must remember that this spring we had a drug scandal that deeply touched us all. The cause of this scandal was that there were a number of driving drug vendors who have driven across the Republic and have "turned" the farmers' medicines from all over the world. This must be abandoned once and for all, and with this law we will create the legal requirement for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] You just need to read it, my colleague, it's all in there. In addition, the cooperation, the partnership between veterinarians and farmers, as previously stated, is regulated in the way that both have a contract within the animal health service, and the orientation of the animal health service is primarily based on advice, on prevention. We want the company to be visited, cared for and advised on a regular basis, so that we have no or only little use of medication after performance. So that's the second. The third thing: Look Once upon a time – you will not find it all over Europe, you will not find it all over the world – how great this law is! There is a five-year record and storage obligation for each, both for the veterinarian and for the caretaker and for the farmer, when the application of the product to his farm is carried out on his animal stock. – What else do you want, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber, except you're not right that we did this? These are the visionary areas. Furthermore, we attach great importance to the fact that there is not only a cooperation here, but also that training is guaranteed in such a way. This will also be done by means of an appropriate regulation of the Ministry, because we really place the greatest value on the careful application of all of these products and believe that we are just moving forward with each other. All that you've been trying to bring in and emotionalize this afternoon is not necessary. They only need to deal with the important things, especially those that are essential to achieving the goal of food security. You have to see one thing very clearly: that as an Austrian we feel committed in a special way. We are the country in Europe, which is in the forefront of food quality. We have done this to this day, and we will do so in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We also need the legal conditions that this government has finally met with the groups concerned, of course in the most difficult negotiations. A compliment to all those who have contributed. I believe that a legal basis has been created of a kind and quality that can be seen, which is also functional and feasible. The right implementation is now with those responsible, and there each of us is required. If you said here today that easy-to-use handling is possible, please read this bill! You will learn that in the event of abuse and misbehavior of draconian punishment, there is a degree to which you will find it in no other area of law in this kind. This goes down to the exclusion of professional rights, to the blocking of holdings, to many other painful measures. Everyone will consider this very well before going to Glatteis, as it was this spring. A good thing, the You could step in calmly, because I think you should finally understand that it is about the citizens and not about any emotional spectacle. That's not our will. We work for the citizens and this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10680	The next speaker is Mrs Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10702	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Donabauer, you want to sell this veterinary drug control law as an answer to the pig mast scandal. Of course, it is also meant as an answer, but what measures are being taken to prevent the abuse of drugs in animal husbandry? – Mr colleague, the interpretation that one reads out of a law is obviously a very different one. [[Abg. Ing. Scheuch: You just need to read it! Everything in there!]] [[Abg. Auer: Read, don't let talk!]] It is not only that the opposition or that we show exactly these weaknesses which contain this law, but also the veterinarians and the animal welfare organizations, because it is legalized that farmers act as veterinarians, that they present diagnostics and administer medications. [[Abg. Auer: The Federal Minister has come!]] [[Abg. Zelot: That's a nonsense!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Then you did not read the law!]] They legalize a monthly need for medicines on the farm. Please explain to me how this can prevent drug abuse! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I'm telling you, this is the opening of black sheep that exist for abuse door and gate. I think it is inconceivable that the Ministry of Health and Consumer Protection will without delay take into account the consequences of this law. These are the consequences that have been pointed out in the review. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Why didn't you do anything? You've been ruling for 30 years!]] The animals will have to suffer unnecessarily if they are mistreated. In addition, the use of drugs will also cover poor posture conditions. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] I really think this is inconceivable, and I can't imagine that this will give the farmers a good service. Diseases and diseases can spread among the animals because they are overlaid by the vaccinations, by vaccinations carried out by the farmer. And it is to be feared that antibiotic resistance is increasing through false drugs, resulting in enormous economic damage to farmers. The consequence is that consumers are further insecured and meat consumption continues to decline. Many farmers are threatened by this in their economic existence and ultimately have to be locked. But then it's too late to say: We did not want to do that, we were actually just trying to create more favourable production opportunities for the farmers. [[Abg. Achatz: You don't even know each other! Every sentence so far was wrong!]] You have to understand that these 3 percent – as high as the average costs for veterinarians and medicines – would be a determining cost factor for a farm. [[Abg. Auer: Have you ever run a farm?]] How – I ask you, if you are already crying out so loud as a representative of the government parties – do you want to guarantee food safety? – This is something I would like to ask the Secretary of State for Health in particular and would really like to ask the Minister. [[Abg. Auer: He's here anyway!]] Don't tell us... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You can also ask the Minister!]] [[Abg. Achatz: He's here!]] Sorry, I didn't see you. [[Federal Minister Mag. Main: I didn't think I'd be overlooked!]] [[More lively calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You can release the employee who wrote this speech! She doesn't understand anything!]] [[Abg. Achatz: You have the wrong talk with!]] [[Abg. Auer: He's been there a long time!]] I don't think you can guarantee this food safety. They explain that this will be done by the Food Agency, which had already been announced for mid-2001, but which has not yet been implemented. What do you say to consumers when they ask for control? You know very well that food control is in the hands of the agricultural councils in the countries. [[Abg. Achatz: That's just not true!]] This led to the fact that, for example, at the first appearance of the pig mast scandal of the Styrian Agricultural Council via the media, all farmers were immediately warned and meant that from tomorrow we will carry out very strict controls on the farms. Given the fact that drugs are in the hands of laymen and there will be massive problems in control, and given the fact that drug abuse is covered or even legalized in some parts, we cannot accept this law under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10959	The next speaker is Mrs Wachlander. The clock is set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10981	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At its last meeting, the Health Committee also had three requests from Mr Lacner and, at that time, comrades who had the primary topic of medicines for children and young people. I believe that this too is a very important issue. Food safety is, of course, quite, very important, but drugs for children are also something that should certainly not be ignored. I see the use of "adult drugs" in childhood medicine as a precarious matter, as well as the lack of pharmaceutical specialties for children and adolescents, as well as the arrangements in terms of the authorisation and examination of medicines for children and young people. It is also undisputed that the administration of "adult drugs" in children can lead to negative effects and that the doctors of pediatrics have the risk that such regulations will no longer lead to the protection of the pharmaceuticals law and, as it were, will lose this protection. That is, a doctor who orders such medicines because he has nothing else available is in a right-free space. For the mostly non-medical-scientific parents, the problem is that they have to give their consent. If you look at the pack texts for adult medications, they are a horror for a non-medicalian, and then only have to answer whether or not your own child gets them, is certainly a thing that is very difficult for parents to decide. That is why I agree, of course, with Mr Lacner's requests that children's drugs should be created, which are specialised on the organism of the child and so on after dosing, but I think the demand you make is somewhat too short-sighted. If you move into the calculation of what we have here in Austria to pharmaceutical companies, you will see that it is primarily subsidiaries. The market is far too little incentive for these pharmaceutical companies to really devote themselves to research or to also operate the authorisation differently than they do today. Only at European level can we get where we want, namely really to drugs that are adequate for children and young people at their doses, in their effect, in the calculation of adverse reactions, so that children actually experience healing and do not suffer damage from medicines that are simply not good enough for them. Finally, I should like to make an amendment in this sense, which is also part of the drug, which is primarily editorial amendments. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is hard on the border!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, not two hundred, x, but two thousand, zero, zero, x!]] Please, I can read! Read what's here! I'm reading what's here. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But it's not two hundred, x!]] Two, zero, zero, x! I thank you many times, Mr Schieder, very much for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11164	Now a word of power needs to be spoken. Indisputable is that first a two, then a zero, then a zero, and then an X, and the authentic interpretation is not carried out here in plenary. Furthermore, the application is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11192	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I don't know if I can help you now, because in six minutes I have to talk about the veterinary drug control law, about childhood pharmacotherapy and their risks and about doping, I have to be zampano or a magician. It's gonna be hard. Perhaps first of all on Mr Scheuch's comments, which initially aroused itself. I'd meet you. Even a courageous minister can't be brave every day, we say so. Is it possible to agree on that? - Okay. When I talk about the veterinary drug control law, I will not hear from you the terms "infam", "indecent" or "serious", but if it is not to be infidel, non-instant and not immeasurable, then it is at least not forward-looking and not wise. Since I really like farmers and farms, I am not in favour of condemning and suspecting them on a flat-rate basis. But I say to you that too much has become known than that you could just be as loose about it. I also think it is not wise for farmers to do so in times like this, because confidence in some consumers – I do not say at all, but with some – has been severely shaken. Abuse of drugs and hormones was the headline of the media for days, and in this area, by law, only the slightest suspicion that it could now become easier for the black sheep in the dark to act again, I would not like it as a farmer. I would not like that as a farmer and ask for caution, prudence and farsightedness. That's not exactly what I see. Have you ever thought about whether this could not be a Pyrrhus victory? When I hear that only in the pig mast 8 billion schilling is achieved value added and one expects to save 30 million schilling by vaccination, I wonder what relationships these are. It will also make a difference whether the "small" farmers are farmers or large farms. You have probably made a mistake in this respect, Prime Minister, if I may say so Frankly and freely, that one could have discussed this much more serious if the regulations mentioned by you, which are intended to describe medicines excluded from vaccination liberalisation, were to be put on the table at the same time and discussed. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Since I am just warning against saving in the wrong place because this could be expensive, allow me to introduce myself briefly as a human physician and come to the children. It is very correct what Mr Lackner has made in three applications if he finds that 80 percent of all medicines on the market are not approved for children and adolescents. There you have to imagine what that means: There is also no liability cover, there is no adequate scientific data and research, but one works with it from an emergency situation and from an empirical point of view. And that 40 percent of all vital, indispensable drugs, according to WHO in childhood, are even banned, is not really soothing either. That is why I would say that Mr Lacner's requests are absolutely worth agreeing to them. Mrs Mag. Mag. Hartinger made a similar request, and she was really so fair to admit that it is, of course, far vague, slightly diffuser and far from as precise as the other three. I wonder, of course, why, if there are three templates from the opposition, which, admittedly, are much better, even more critical for the industry and more secure for the young patients, then it is absolutely essential to make a specific request, which is not quite as good. Even if you are so decent and even admit it, you still conjure up something that does not serve appropriate solutions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So should this not happen today, I would ask you to consider how the pharmaceutical industry, on the one hand, can be stimulated, on the other hand, with gentle or stronger pressure and pressure, to carry out the outstanding investigations in an ethically reasonable manner, to minimise the risks and to increase the benefits for patients, and thus also the safety for parents. All too questionable are the side effects, not even the effects should be estimated clearly, and little is known about the dosage. What happens as a result cannot be estimated because of our data situation and possibly because of not yet perfect patient rights. It's sad if I have to find out as a doctor: It probably happens a lot more wrong than we believe ourselves. The fact that this does not see the light of the day is because – this is a comical sentence, but it is true – that people endure more than we believe.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11266	I declare that Parliament's motion for a resolution. Maier concerning the submission of an anti-doping law is duly signed and under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11290	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to Professor Dr. Grünewald for worrying about the farmers, especially when he refers to the so-called pig mast scandal. By the way, this name is completely incorrect. In reality, it was a scandal of some dubios business-makers and, on the other hand, a scandal of those organizations that were the so-called discoverers. If farmers who have not had animals in their farm for five or ten years are blackened, they will be drug abusers, then such an approach is the real scandal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: I don't know!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: An oblique argumentation!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This law brings more control, more stringent and stricter regulations and the elimination of criminal and dubious business makers such as the "autobahn vets", and it will bring better cooperation between the veterinarians and farmers. It may also be noted: This law, ladies and gentlemen, is EU-compliant, and it could actually serve as an example for other countries to regulate the good cooperation of veterinarians and farmers. I do not understand, therefore, why the opposition in part criticises it so brutally, because not the farmers control themselves, but there is a clear contract between the veterinarians and the farmers for the safety of consumers, the health of our animals and, of course, the further expansion of the economic base for our farms. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No farmers, black sheep!]] Animal health services are mainly concerned with advice and cooperation. Furthermore, I do not need to address this because this has been carried out accordingly by Mr Donabauer. It is clearly regulated in the Veterinary Medicines Control Act that the application may only be carried out in cooperation with and under the supervision of the veterinarians and must be documented in writing by both sides. It is truly incomprehensible and unscrupulous, as was done here by parts of the veterinary profession and also by associations such as the "Four Pfoten" in advance with diffamations and false show stories panic. This game of evil panic was supported by the Greens and the Socialists. It is simply not true that farmers want to use the Veterinary Medicines Control Act to administer unbridled and uncontrolled medicines. There have never been such clear rules. Ladies and gentlemen! In our country, people can rely that they get healthy products from the farmers on the table. In this context, I should like to thank the two competent ministers, Mr President-in-Office of the State and Mr Molterer, for their commitment, because it was not easy to negotiate this law in the way it finally succeeded. We are all still under a certain shock of the first BSE case in Austria. However, it has been shown that the government's crisis plan works as well as the complete review and control. And despite the problems of sampling, it was possible to filter out the BSE case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since, in the run-up to a number of representatives of the SPÖ, more of the veterinarians have been required, one may hold: If 50 animals are slaughtered, of these 50 cattle are only 14 older than 30 months old and then three veterinarians are present in this slaughterhouse, then I mean more that maybe two were too much in that case than one too few. The scope of control is important, i.e. all animals over 30 months will continue to be examined accordingly in the future. It will continue to be done with the disposal of the risk material for consumer safety. This means that people can continue to rely on getting healthy food on the table in the future. The path of Austrian agriculture is right. This is demonstrated by the more than 220 000 BSE tests so far. I really ask you not to repeat the mistakes of last winter. It is unscrupulous to operate panic in the population. It is about clarifying the causes of confidence to the Austrian farmers, the veterinarians and also the control authorities, because they are all really trying to do the best for both sides, for farmers and also for consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11366	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11388	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We were actually in favour of the suspension of the Committee's meeting when discussing the Government's proposal to amend the Medicines Act, because we thought that, in particular, the criticisms of the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service to the §§ 68a and 84b, in which it concerns the complicated right of home-relation in connection with controls, might be taken into account during the postponement. They are involved, and we have a positive assessment of this, at § 68a, where the institutions are commissioned by the Federal Minister for Sport. However, this harmonisation of the language system has not been incorporated – and that would have actually only been logical – in the legal text concerning criminal provisions. There is still the old language regime, criticised by the Constitutional Service, which reads: "enter and visit". In § 68a, which has been amended, it simply says: "Keep looking." We believe that this is contradictory, and my colleague, Mr Maier, has also tabled a motion for a resolution. We from the SPÖ are pleading for separate vote because this law is in itself unsystematic. The key, namely the regulation of parallel imports of medicinal products, is our approval. Similarly, our consent – and we expressly welcome this – is the right for consumer protection associations to complain in connection with infringements of the advertising regulations on medicinal products. This can only be good for consumers, and in this sense I thank myself.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11421	Mrs Achatz has come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11442	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the Greens! It is simply insidious to speak of deterioration when the opposite is true. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] With this veterinary drug control law, serious improvements have been made to the previous practice law. Infringements of this veterinary drug control law are now subject to criminal regulations, so far there has been none. There are the obligations to record very precise records for the veterinarian and for the farmer. This is what the so-called motorway veterinarian has done. The possession of illegal veterinary medicinal products, prohibited veterinary medicinal products in Austria, has so far been free of punishment and is now punishable. There are up to three years of imprisonment for repeaters. Whoever speaks of a deterioration of the law, he is simply wrong or he deliberately says the untruth. I wish I and all of you that such a strict veterinary drug control law will also be implemented in all other EU countries and also in the reform states in the area of Easter enlargement.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11484	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11505	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Achatz referred to the draft law and said that it was the best draft. [[Abg. Achatz: It's better!]] Mr Achatz, it is true that the original draft, presented by the Federal Minister of State, was much stricter in many areas than the one now before the decision. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not an appropriate way of doing this – adequately in view of the legitimate criticism. In this context, I would like to say very clearly, Mr President: You have no idea what really happened at the pig mast scandal, Mr. Prince! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I will therefore briefly present some of these facts: ==References== In June of this year, representatives of the Directorate-General for Health and Consumer Protection in Austria were represented by the European Commission and examined how residue controls are carried out in live animals and in animal products in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! What conclusions could be drawn from this investigation? – "The handling of the Schwinemast scandal by the competent authorities shows serious shortcomings that make it more difficult to clarify the situation." – This is the statement of the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen. And I'm going to tell you: Only 17 percent of the samples were drawn within 14 days, most of the samples were drawn later, although Landesrat Pöltl warned the farmers. This means that many antibiotics were no longer detectable at all, because they just can't be demonstrated after 14 days. That is the reality, and that is a criticism that we must make clear afterwards. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! I would like to ask you to follow a little of my remarks, because I would like to address questions very specifically and I would also like to receive an answer from you. The European Commission also criticised the fact that "central coordination of veterinary measures has not taken place". Federal Minister! What have you done since then to ensure that this central coordination takes place? Furthermore, certain medications have not been studied at all. For example, there was the drug "Nergen" which was issued to pigs and cattle farms in Austria and which is illegal, which is only authorised for non-food-producing animals in Germany and is not authorised in Austria at all. This medicine has not been sought at all, Mr. Federal Minister! This was the situation in these investigations. Only six samples were examined on the drug groups Nitroimidazole and Nitrofurane, which were used in pigs in Europe; and this was also known, Minister of State. There has therefore been very little research in this area, and the report also notes that only anti-inflammatory evidence has been carried out. However, these are unspecific, applicable to approved and unauthorised antibiotics. So we are still in control after the pig mast scandal, and the question is what measures you have taken so far and what measures are planned. Federal Minister! I admit that your first template was also really good and interesting from our point of view. There's been a lot of criticism at the level you suggested. But then, ladies and gentlemen, there have been far-reaching amendments which clearly fall back to certain areas of interest in agriculture. I do not understand this, especially as an agricultural representative, because it is a bear service to agriculture, if one allows farmers to carry out vaccinations more intensively. Federal Minister! Explain I'd like you to tell me: Why should farmers immunise, why should this not be done by veterinarians? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would now like to address an important question. In these two days, they have made twice a statement on the current events in the area of the first Austrian BSE case. Federal Minister! In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! In connection with the demand for a reduction in the investigation age to 24 months, I would like to remind you of the statement you made in February in the context of the "food safety" survey. There you have said that on a voluntary basis animals between 24 and 30 months of age will also be examined, and I would also ask you to comment briefly on this. We are still waiting for the above mentioned leaflets. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a necessary precautionary plan, and I hope you will agree to our request.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11601	The motion for a resolution by Mr Pirklhuber has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. There has been a call for an order for an insulting speech by Mr Kiss. Now I've had the record come. It is clear from this that, in the direction of the Green Group, Mr Kiss said: "You are ugly characters, really ugly characters!" - That's why I give you a call for order. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11631	Ladies and gentlemen! A number of questions have been addressed to me here. I can answer them soon. Ladies and gentlemen! The relevant investigations in the institutions have been based on the suspicions and have also been carried out after the suspected cases. The fact that it has also been examined for preparations which are not original in Austria, but which are only traded abroad in Europe and which could possibly have been brought across borders by foreign veterinarians understands itself to answer this question. I should also like to point out that, in connection with these investigations, it has also been claimed that designer preparations from the East were on the market. As you know, these designer preparations from the Eastern states are contaminated by many other substances and do not correspond to the original preparations. You have asked why vaccination as such is not reserved exclusively for the veterinarians. I should like to point out to you that there are vaccines which are not in the disease programmes, but which are exclusively prophylactic in order to avoid the use of antibiotics, no hormones and no other substances during the mast and their use is therefore in the interests of the consumer. Only such vaccines are I and no other. They will give me the right to say, for example, that the addition of liquid vaccines into drinking water, for example, Poultry is not an academic or other performance, but a purely manual activity which must be carried out in accordance with the relevant programmes. In practice by farmers after training, according to their diagnosis, according to the state of hygiene of the holding, for animal protection reasons and also in the interests of the consumer, this guarantees better food safety than today's methods of use. They also referred to the amendments to the original draft with regard to penalties. I have not been able to impose minimum penalties because that contradicts the Austrian philosophy of the rule of law. There are no minimum penalties, I have been informed by the Ministry of Justice, but the establishment of minimum penalties is the case of the judge who judges from case to case in the appropriate manner. However, I also agreed with the Minister of Justice that at the next judge's meeting, human health professionals will be informed of drug incidents and allergies, so that the judges may be more aware of the damage caused by human health than is currently expressed in the minimum penalties imposed. I should like to point out to you that, in animal health services, as they are designed today, the Chamber of Labour as a consumer organisation is involved at all levels of the country and in the Federal Animal Health Service, because it is a major concern to me as a minister that this important section is regulated. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Veterinary Control Act states that the Federal Minister for Health has the competence to recognise animal health services and no longer the Veterinary Chamber. I should like to point out to you that the Chamber of Veterinars has currently recognised the animal health services at the national level, and I can also point out to you that, despite the abuses, only in one case a Chamber of Veterinars, namely that of Lower Austria, almost cancelled the animal health service and then took in the Chamber of Workers for Consumer Protection. Where there were also abuses, namely, in Upper Austria and in Styria, the veterinary chambers did not use their right. I therefore believe, contrary to my board, that the Minister of Health is likely to represent consumer protection more efficiently by means of the announcement than the Chamber, which, as you have rightly said, has quite different interests in the recognition, non-recognition and elimination of misunderstandings. I therefore believe that I am talking about improving the consumer with fug and law, even though the Chamber of Veterinars, my own Chamber, strongly criticizes me on this point. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that the interests of a Minister of Health are better to ensure consumer protection than the interests of those who actually have the exclusive power of decision on recognition or non-recognition in the system today. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A nice ending!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Don't forget that there's a liability question either. Those who give the medications, who present the diagnosis and who monitor the treatment on the spot, who have to register and make processes comprehensible, will continue to be the trained organ, the veterinarian. However, there is a difference to the current situation: The "autobahn vets" will find it difficult to stop becoming criminalised, because they will not be able to be present in the operation, on site, to complete the protocols, to present the diagnostics and to check the hygiene, because they have usually distributed their medications elsewhere. Finally, this law will not only punish them, but it will also lose their profession if they continue to work as before. I therefore believe that this law fully takes into account animal welfare and consumer protection. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I see, however, that some of those who today deserve well in this situation do indeed try the media and also the representatives of the two parliamentary parties to the opposition under the pretext of other reasons and actually think something different than they suggest.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11683	Next speaker is Mrs Hartinger. The watch is gladly set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11704	Mr President. Minister! High house! Under these agenda items, we are today adopting a number of important laws that may not be as popular as the Sanitary Law, but are nevertheless of great importance to the population. First of all, of course, I want to highlight the pharmacy law. This is mainly about the extension of the opening hours, because, because of the changed purchasing behaviour and the more flexible opening hours in trade, the lunch lock is lifted. This provides an additional service for the population. The second thing that seems very important to me is, of course, the Medicines Act with regard to children's medicines. As 20 percent of the total population in the European Union is children, but no mandatory rules have been established to take account of paediatric use in the development of medicinal products, this is now being done, and medicines are being tested in terms of their effectiveness and dosage to protect our children. I am convinced that this is also necessary for the benefit of our children. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The third is the bill to implement the anti-doping convention, which was ratified in 1991. This has already been carried out by my colleagues. And the fourth thing that I think is very important is the consideration of parallel imports within the framework of the marketing regulations on medicinal products. Ladies and gentlemen! These are all laws for the benefit of the patients, for the benefit of the Austrians, and I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their implementation and you, who will decide on these laws, very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11753	Mrs Mag. Sima. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11775	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I'm going to take a short look, Mr Schweitzer, don't worry. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Super, Ulli!]] I regret that this important issue will be discussed at such a later hour, because I think it would have deserved a more detailed discussion than we can now lead it. Ladies and gentlemen! In one point, I give my colleague Achatz the right to: There is an important positive point in this law, namely that the possession of illegal drugs in Austria will be prohibited and punished in future. I believe that this is really an important point, whose implementation is overdue and which one should have decided immediately after the pig mast scandal. But I am glad that this will be decided at least today. However, there is another important aspect of this law, which does not like it – it has already been mentioned several times by my previous speakers – that, in the area of legal veterinary medicinal products, the door is already very far open to possible abuse, and I find that very unfortunate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] With this law, ladies and gentlemen, the farmer is upgraded as a veterinarian, and I do not quite see on the basis of which qualification. As you all know, there is a very detailed university study, the training as a veterinary physician. I wonder, What do we really need to do if this goes all the way to the "do-it-yourself" method in the future? The specialist and the professional are to be replaced by a layman! You can't discuss that away when you've looked at the law. And that is an aspect that I feel is very negative and a step back. Accordingly, there has also been a cry by the veterinarians, because of course they are now saying: We can no longer guarantee the safety of animal food in Austria. [[Call the ÖVP:Have you read the law?]] Mr Commissioner, I have also read it, and if you have also read it, then you know that the door is being opened very far in this area. I cannot understand why you support this and why this is supported by the farmers. [[Abg. Großruck: Do you need a doctor each time you take a tablet?]] I can't imagine that. If I were a farmer, I wouldn't want that responsibility to come to me. But obviously you feel this is an advantage, but it is only a very short-term advantage. Instead of completely turning off all possible abuses in this sensitive area, open a new loophole. I can't understand. Especially now, a year after the pig mast scandal, I would have expected the measures to go exactly in the opposite direction. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this is a step in the wrong direction and will end my speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11842	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11863	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Minister! I don't understand at all the chicken farm mood that the Greens wanted to initiate here this afternoon. I don't understand. They should be happy and should praise a law that has finally been made and which ultimately includes clearer provisions on veterinary medicinal products. [[Deputies of Oellinger and Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Lie, lead!]] It is significant that even the opposition rated many points of this law as positive. [[Abg. May. Prammer: You would like that!]] "Possitive" was clearly said by my predecessor too. Of course, we see more than one point positive, Mrs Sima, I will call it you. You probably only read the first part of the law, otherwise you would have noticed a lot more points. Of course, it is also crucial that the criminal provisions have been tightened. Don't you want that? Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber! I ask you very clearly: Don't you want the sanctions to be tightened? Don't you want that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] You don't want that? – I hope that will be logged that you do not want to. Looks like you don't want to. Very amazing for me! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] But it's still going on. Of course, it is also important to punish the possession of illegal drugs. And of course it is also important that the animal health service is promoted. This is a crucial point. And then a few criticisms of yours remain, which are to be summarized, that on the one hand, you say: It went too fast. – But this law cannot be implemented quickly enough. I'd be glad if you could see it like that. [[Abg. Oillinger: Do you believe what you're saying?]] The second aspect is that you act as lobbyists for the veterinarians. I'm telling you why the veterinarians are against it. If you'd read the law carefully, you'd know that. I quote from the law: "The veterinarian shall record in an appropriate manner the date on which the animals are examined, the name and address of the animal owners, the number of animals treated, the diagnosis, the prescribed veterinary medicinal products, the dose administered, the duration of treatment and the waiting times to be kept. The documents concerned shall be kept for at least five years and shall be submitted for inspection at the request of the Authority or the supervisory body.' - Quote. It is clear that the veterinarians are not happy with this. That means more work. Of course, the professional representation of the veterinary profession remains at home whether it wants to criticise a good law that has been made for consumers. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: It is about the competence for vaccination!]] Stay, Mr. Diploma Engineer – I am still here – one last point, namely the "lay vaccination". [[Call:Yes]] This has been called a lay vaccination by you, and I am very surprised that today you call the farmers in dealing with animals a layman. That really surprises me. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: This is what Mr Sima said!]] It's been said several times today, that surprises me. It can't be. I think farmers are the group of individuals who have the greatest experience with animals and who in the area really know what is going on. Let me tell you once again – Minister Haupt has already done it –: The vaccination that takes place here is usually a swallow vaccine, is a drink vaccine. And of course, one thing is clear – and that is said with regard to human medicine: Each nurse, if authorized by the doctor, is able to carry out and do a vaccination. That's what I see here. [[Abg. Ollinger: The comparison with a nurse is quite in addition! That's five years of training!]] Finally, it is Usus that our minister makes good laws, and it is also Usus that you simply vote against these laws for reasons of fundamental opposition. I hope that, in his further action, Mr Haupt will not be able to stop by such shallow arguments as you put them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11990	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. – Please give back the corrective and the actual facts!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12014	Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the Commission. Scheuch claimed I'd called the peasants a layman. I'm actually correcting: I have said that you are doing a bear service to agriculture if you make the farmers a veterinarian by releasing the vaccinations. Federal Minister! You have not limited in this law what you want to refer to this provision.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12047	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Subject matter! The next speaker is Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12094	Mr President. Minister! High house! It is true that I have made three applications on this important topic – the use of "adult drugs" in children and adolescents. It is also right that these content would be quite worthy to be decided today, as it is present, and it is also true that, obviously, the government parties also believe that this important issue would have been fully covered by my three proposals. What is it about, ladies and gentlemen, and what was the development like? – With these three applications, we have already reached 8th place. In November, the Health Committee was fully involved. We have been praised by the Minister and the Secretary of State. The above-mentioned subject was postponed and on 6 June. The Council also adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative Even then, we were again attested that these applications are quite valuable because they cover an important matter, which has found much too little attention in the health policy so far. Now we are going to vote on whether and how far the government parties can follow the intentions of these three applications, because obviously also from science comes support for them. We have talked in detail with people from science, such as Professor Pollak and, finally, with the Austrian Society for Child and Youth Medicine, Professor Mutz, and have received quite positive signals from there that these three applications would contribute significantly to increasing quality assurance in this area. I would like to thank myself, and I also expressly say this, for the very open and fair discussion on this subject, because it is simply important that we come to a comprehensive decision-making today. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12132	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12154	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly pleased that there has finally been a regulation, so that the doping – which is being abused in almost all the fitness institutions of Austria – is intended to stop a high percentage of all those who run power sports, perform performance sports, take doping agents – now. As a doctor, I am particularly pleased that these drugs, which are suitable for doping, are prohibited for the purpose of doping in sport and that they must not be placed on the market and must not be used in others. In view of the late hour, I only say more that the criticism of the opposition is not in place, because most of the matters that we are changing today could have been changed by the SPÖ for a long time. I am just saying that parallel imports, Mr Klubobmann Khol, bring a great advantage to patients and also to health insurance companies, because cheap and equivalent drugs are on the market, and that pharmacies opening times are now customer-oriented. This is also a great advantage for Austrian consumers and patients. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Thank you. However, this is not yet complete, because there are further improvements in the current legal matter, namely that medicines for children – the suggestion of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs – are more qualitatively accessible in the EU. There is now a significant improvement in the legislation on veterinary medicinal products. The veterinarians have great advantages because they have no longer imported smuggling products from those who have corrupted their reputation, as they were so-called highway veterinarians, to have the reputation ruined. The veterinarians are thus also protected by this law, as are the farmers who are given clear guidelines on how to use the veterinary medicinal products. Consumers have the greatest benefit from all these legislative instruments. With these legislative instruments, we can really complete the health policy year in great satisfaction.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12207	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12228	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the use of medicines in children, speakers have already pointed out before me that 80 percent of the medicines used in pediatric medicine are not authorised for this indication area and for about 40 percent of the medicines prescribed in Germany in pediatric medicine, according to the manufacturer, there is a principle prohibition of use in this area. This will not be much different in Austria. However, the pediatricians must use such "adult drugs" for therapy if a healing attempt promises success with them. In these cases, the pediatricians move outside the legal protection of the pharmaceutical law. Pediatricians need the parents' special consent and, where possible, the children's own, for medical trials with "adult drugs". The therapeuticly effective dose of a medicinal product used to treat a disease in adults cannot be derived from a dose effective for the child or youth. Children and adolescents cannot be considered and treated as small adults. Due to the lack of systematically collected scientific data, drug therapy persists in children and adolescents at the stage of the empirical period when "adult drugs" are used. Therefore, the medical treatment of children and adolescents does not show the quality standard reached in adults. The use of "adult drugs" in the paediatric system is associated with a higher risk of adverse reactions. The result of an English study shows that the adverse reactions in the use of medicines not tested for children are twice as high. Skin rashes, dizziness, vomiting, diarrhoea and hallucinations often occurred. In severe cases, respiratory inhibition, blood pressure loss and liver failure were the result. This situation can also be further reinforced by the fact that child medicine is no longer subject to good proven preparations due to the lack of economic interests of the pharmaceutical companies. Since children have the same rights to adequate, efficient and safe pharmacotherapy as adults, the SPÖ has introduced the applications under negotiation. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] And how do the government parties react? – You reject the requests from purely party tactics. The correctness of our requests proves, on the one hand, that they are supported by the Austrian Society for Child and Youth Medicine and, on the other hand, that the government parties have adopted their own resolution, totally harmless and de facto insignificant. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Thank you, Mr Mayor!]] A non-binding, toothless and unscrupulous request that shifts the field to the European level. [[Contradict with the liberals.]] Clearly, the government fractions do not believe that children also have the same right to secure pharmacotherapy as adults. This is a strange behavior, Mr Schweitzer, for parties who like to present themselves as child-friendly parties. Thank you, Jörg!, thank you, Wolfgang!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12285	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Speaking time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12306	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We have requested that this draft law be referred back to committee, and I should like once again, Minister of State, for They also did not know God happy with this law. They have also expressed this. What's behind that is a very cold, icy-cold economic deal. As a result of the scandals of the past, there are now higher control costs, higher test costs, and in return, the lobby of the large farmers – that is not the small, Mrs. Achatz – has negotiated that certain medicines may be administered in the future without veterinarians. That was the deal, that's behind it! They save on the costs of medical treatment by professionals. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Federal Minister! What is more clear about this: a monthly stock than a limit value! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] These are chronically ill animals, and these chronically ill animals may naturally interact with other medicines. The veterinarians rightly fear...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12340	Please, Mrs Doctor, also pay attention to the speaking time! [[Call the Greens: But we still have 3 minutes!]] The speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12363	... fear rightly – I quote literally –: "... inevitable consequences for consumer protection". – I can only say: Cheers of food!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12394	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12415	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! I just want to answer two things: First: The diagnosis and therapy remain in the hands of the expert. I can tell you that a valid contract with this specialist must exist. It is precisely this contract that it will bring with it that one and the same specialist controls one and the same company and therefore these interactions between the medications cannot occur, but are taken into account by a specialist. Secondly, there will also be the advantage that this specialist must carry out a documentation for which he is liable. I therefore believe that all your arguments are going to go empty.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12445	I do not have any further comments to make on this, so I conclude the debate. We come to a number of votes. First of all, it is appropriate to vote on the referral request submitted by Mrs Dr. Petrovic to the draft law on a federal law applying for a federal law on the application of medicinal products to food-producing animals as well as a federal law on the importation of medicinal products. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of making a return to the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – This is the minority. The referral request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the votes on the various committee proposals. First of all, I shall vote on the draft federal law which amends the pharmaceutical law, the prescription law, the pharmacy law and other legislation into 934 of the supplements. To this end, Mr Pumberger, together with Dr Rasinger, has tabled an amendment. There is also a request for separate vote made by Mr Lacner. I am therefore going to vote on the parts of the Act in series and then on the remaining parts of the motion for a resolution which have not yet been voted on, as well as on the request for a separate vote. First of all, the amendment: Deputies Dr. Pumberger and Dr. Rasinger have tabled an amendment which includes the deletion of the Celex number in the title of the draft law. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote separately on Rule I(2), as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This is decided by a majority. Deputies Dr. Pumberger and Dr. Rasinger have tabled an amendment which refers to Article I(10)(22)(4). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to be a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall be voting separately on Rule I(19) to (26) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – These parts of the draft law are adopted by majority. Dr. Pumberger and Dr. Rasinger have tabled an amendment which refers to Article I, point 30. In case of confirmation, I am looking for a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously adopted – despite fatigue. We come to a separate vote on Rule I Point 32(96)(2), first paragraph, as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Dr. Pumberger and Dr. Rasinger have tabled an amendment which refers to Article II(5) and Article IV(3). I ask those Members of the House who wish to agree to a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft, together with the title and receipt, of the Committee's report. I ask for a sign in case of consent. – These remaining parts are unanimously adopted. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal in third reading to give a sign. I note that the draft law was adopted by a majority vote in third reading. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Maier concerning the submission of an anti-doping law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. I note that the motion for a resolution did not find the majority. We come to the vote on the draft federal law which lays down the Federal Law on the Use of Medicinal Products for Food and a Federal Law on the Importation of Medicinal Products and amends the Veterinary Act in 935 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign. – This was adopted by majority vote in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to the third-reading proposal for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority vote in third reading. There is also a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber on BSE care measures in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are asking for this motion for a resolution on BSE care measures... – Please, that is, not care, but precautionary measures. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: BSE prevention measures!]] I only draw attention to that, that is all handwritten, so there are sometimes small misunderstandings. So, regarding BSE prevention in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This has not found a majority and is therefore rejected. Next, we shall vote on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its report in 936 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – The attention of 936 supplements shall be taken by majority vote. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 937 of the supplements. I can also ask for a sign of approval. – I notice: The adoption of this report shall also be carried out by a majority vote. We shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 938 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this resolution to give a sign. The resolution has been adopted by the National Council by a majority vote. (E 116.) Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 938 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – The Committee report shall be taken up by a majority vote. 11th@item: inlistbox Point report of the Committee on Finance on amendment 577/A by Mr Hermann Böhacker, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Insurance Supervision Act (947 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12556	This leads us to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I do not have the desire to speak. That is why I do not need to open a debate, but we shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 947 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a sign on this. – The consent shall be unanimously given at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to the presentation, to give a sign on this matter. . I note that the draft law has also been adopted at third reading. Ladies and gentlemen! We will be done in a few minutes, but some votes and statements are still necessary. 12. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the District Court of the Interior of Vienna (15U 571/01x) for approval of the administrative persecution of Members to the National Council of Ridi Steibl(945 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12614	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. I don't think that's what I'm talking about. We shall therefore vote on the request of the Immunities Committee, according to which the National Council may decide: In response to the request of the District Court of the Inner City of Vienna of 29 May, the Court of Justice of the European Communities referred to the Court of Justice of the European Communities for a preliminary ruling. On 11 November 2001, for approval of the official persecution of Members of the National Council for Ridi Steiblwird, it was found that the incriminated case was an oral statement made on appeal, in accordance with Article 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 B-VG is subject to professional immunity. Thus, prosecution is inadmissible. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request from the Committee on Immunities to rise from the seats. – The National Council shall act unanimously on this request. We've got the 12th. Agenda item done. 13. Point Report by the Immunities Committee on the request of the National Court of St. Pölten (32 Hv 1033/01) for approval of the official prosecution of Members to the National Council. Johanna Mikl- Leitner(946 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12678	We arrive at the 13th. Agenda item. No reporting is required. There is also no desire for word messages. We shall therefore vote, with the immunity committee submitting the following decision to the National Council: 1. In the case of the request of the Landesgericht St. Pölten of 28 May, the Court of Justice of the European Communities referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Article 2 of Council Regulation (EEC) No. On November 1, 2001, the National Council of Deputies approved the official persecution of the deputies to the National Council. Johanna Mikl- Leitner wird within the meaning of Article 57 para. 3 B-VG found that a link between the criminal action claimed by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the delegates to the National Council. Johanna Mikl- Leitnerbestand. 2. An official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council. Johanna Mikl- Leitner is therefore agreed. Is that right? – Let me take a look at it! Since both Croquis contain such a record and there seems to be no contradiction, I note once again that the second part of the application of the Immunities Committee is: "An official persecution of the delegates to the National Council mag. Johanna Mikl- Leitner is agreed." I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign in this regard. [[The representatives of the SPÖ rise up, those of the Greens insist on their seats, by the representatives of the liberals and the ÖVP a part rises.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I apply for an enumeration according to § 66 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure!]] - Yes. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Unrest in the hall.]] I would ask you not to bother me towards the end of the session. – I ask for the cooperation of a writer. [[Writer Haller goes to the Bureau.]] Mrs Haller, I ask you to count the pros. I myself will count the double votes. [[The counting is carried out.]] The Committee's request was rejected by 68 votes to 64 after both of us. [[Congratulations on the liberals, the ÖVP and the Greens.]] The agenda of this meeting is exhausted. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I do not want to have to ring the bell all the time, because this increases noise levels even further. But we have another vote and then an assignment meeting before us. Then I'll be able to wish you all the nice holidays. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12768	We shall proceed to the debate on Mr Jarolim's request for the establishment of an investigation committee on the transmission of police data and related operations, as I announced at the beginning of the sitting with a full title of this request. The request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12861	No debate was requested. We therefore come to the vote on this request by Dr. Jarolim on the establishment of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Dr. Jarolim's motion for a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-12-13-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12897	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 578/A to 588/A (E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3212/J to 3244/J were also raised. Finally, Question 22/JPR by Mr Wolfgang Jung has been sent to the President of the National Council. I call for the next meeting of the National Council to be held immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
