ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3431	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and open the 54. Meeting of the National Council during the current legislative period, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 52 and 53. Meeting of 14. In December 2000, the Parliament's Directorate remained in a state of suspense and without opposition. They are therefore considered approved. Mr Amon, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Brugger, Mr Burket, Mr Mag, have been reported to prevent today's sitting. Hetzl, Dr. Moser, Dr. Doppelmüller, Dr. Mertel, Parnigoni and Fischl. Request to a Member of Parliament pursuant to § 2 para. 1 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3467	As far as Mr Fischl's apologies are concerned, I should like to point out that Mr Fischl's constituency on 22 October was elected. ==References====External links== Mr Fischl could not be praised at the time because he was sickly excused. This was also the case for subsequent meetings. ==References== The 30-day Frist has expired in accordance with § 2 of the Rules of Procedure. Today is the first session of the plenary session after the end of this 30-day frist. I am obliged to ask Mr Fischl from this point of view to present either a medical certificate or to appear in the National Council or to announce reasons so valid that the National Council by decision acknowledges the validity of these reasons for absence. In this sense, I would like to ask Commissioner Fischl to appear within the next 30 days or to take one of the steps mentioned earlier. - So far to the preventions. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3497	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3749	Mr Alfred Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades requested that the written request of Mr Gusenbauer with order number 354/A (E) to the Federal Minister for Finance on wage tax reduction instead of non-social tax policy be dealt with urgently. For the purposes of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which you all know, the implementation of this urgent request shall be foreseen at 3 p.m. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3779	Before entering the agenda, I shall continue to inform the honourable Member. Kukacka, together with Member Dr. Ofner, has requested the Justice Committee to report on the Government Template concerning a federal law amending the Drugs Act (346 of the Supplements), a period of time until 9. ==References== In this context, there is also a desire for Article 43 of the Rules of Procedure, signed by five Members, to hold a short debate on this request for deadlines. This short debate takes place after the debate on the urgent request has been completed. The vote on the Kukacka/Ofner request will be taken after the short debate. I would also like to say that Mr Kostelka has requested that the Health Committee report to the TSE Act on application 337/A for a period of up to 31. ==References====External links== The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure at the end of the sitting. A short debate under Rule 57 of the Rules of Procedure is not possible because a short debate has already been announced. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Business treatment!]] For business treatment: Mr. Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3810	Mr President. You have rightly stated that a debate under Rule 57 of the Rules of Procedure is not possible on the basis of a request from the representatives of the Government's coalition. However, it is very likely that such a one is according to § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, if the House's plenary session so decides. Question 337/A, which you have quoted, is the request of the Socialist Group on a Federal Law on the Protection of Human Health from CJK and on the protection against the dangers of TSE infection in animals. It is a matter of very special topicality. Everyone in Austria is aware that we still have no permanent right. If the National Council, if this House does not act, then there is with 1. July a law-free state – and then animal meal feeding in Austria is allowed again. We therefore believe that a legislative measure should be adopted without delay. We have therefore put forward this deadline request and are also confident that it will be approved. It is, High House, in Austria, although no BSE has yet been established, although the tests have shown that there is animal meal in the feed. And yesterday, the Minister of Social Affairs stated that it is therefore necessary to create a permanent right. I call on you to debate now and to ensure that a law is passed in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3850	Deputies! There is consensus on this – and the provisions are clear – that according to § 57a and § 57b GOG a short debate, which can be forced by a minority of five Members, is not possible if another short debate is already set, as is the case today by the short debate that has been called for by the Kukacka and Ofner Members. § 59 para. 3 GOG gives the opportunity to hold a debate on an application for business treatment, if the National Council decides by a majority. I shall therefore vote on the question of whether a Rules of Procedure debate on the relevance and urgency of a request for a deadline will be requested by the National Council. Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! Do you want to exercise the right to have other political groups deliver opinions on this matter as well? Please, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, but for business treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3885	For business treatment: The Greens have also submitted the request for a deadline debate on an application to the Committee on Agriculture in the Causa BSE. This green deadline request is also not supported by Mr Kukacka, Mr Ofner, Mr Fekter and Mr Graf, unless the National Council decides otherwise. Although this procedure may be in conformity with the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the letter, the request for a time limit shall be made by the members of the Government. In the case of such a government template, the government parties, which have majority voting, have every opportunity to shape the term running and timing. In this requested debate, I therefore de facto see an abuse and a circumcision of the opposition rights in this House to prevent a BSE debate or in the run-up to the Vienna election campaign. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] I propose that a debate on the Rules of Procedure be held on these statements.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3933	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, spoke on the same matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3955	Mr President, you have clearly and clearly stated that if a group requests a deadline request with debate, another one is not called into the debate today, but only comes to the vote. The second is so that there is no merger: What Mr Kostelka can encourage is a debate on his statements, i.e.: Words about words, but not words about laws. As far as laws are concerned, I would like to point out that this afternoon the Health Committee will meet, in which a decision will be taken on the beef labelling law, in which there are also applications under § 27 GOG in preparation, which is known to the political groups and in which the BSE problem is discussed. Furthermore, a meeting of the main committee is taking place today, for which we have prepared a four-party request, where all four parties represented in Parliament will request that this be put to the vote on 2 October. February a parliamentary survey will be carried out on questions... [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Words about words!]] No, it's a survey and a law. I therefore believe that the Rules of Procedure should take place: Debates of the European Parliament
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e3994	In the same case, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4016	Mr President. High house! I would like to add that, in addition to the measures already planned, which this House has taken very quickly, namely the preparation of a parliamentary survey and also the discussions in the health committee, the two bodies, namely the Ministers of the Chief and the Molterer, with their BSE plan, are not only perfectly correct, but they have also proved themselves to be correct and objective and therefore the Republic has already taken appropriate action in the case of the case of which, from our point of view, thank God, has not arrived. However, I would like to say to the Rules of Procedure: I think it is very interesting that SPÖ and Greens are criticising a Rules of Procedure, which they have decided themselves. They themselves have made it impossible for debates to take place on two time-limits. Now you yourself are prisoners of your own regulatory reform. But they were interesting, Mr Kostelka, especially because you have informed us that you have committed a smooth issue error on today's theme of the special session.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4057	I would like to repeat that according to § 59 para. 3 At the request of a Member of the National Council, the National Council may decide that a debate should be held on a request for business treatment, as Mr Kostelka and subsequently Mrs Dr Petrovic put it. This debate will take place if the majority decides. In this case, the President may limit the speaking time to 5 minutes and also the number of speakers. I'll let you It is therefore the first to vote on Mr Kostelka's request, which is the deadline for 337/A, to hold a short debate. I will then vote on Mrs Petrovic's request to hold a debate on Mr Pirklhuber's request to the Committee on Agriculture on Amendment 353/A (E) to the BSE precautionary programme. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who submit to the proposal Kostelka according to § 59 para. 3 GOG agrees to hold a debate in order to give an indication of this. – This is the minority. The request, as put forward by Mr Kostelka, is therefore rejected. Next, I would like to refer to Mrs Petrovic's request, according to a debate in accordance with § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, to vote. . I note that this request was also largely rejected. I am sure that both requests will be voted on in the matter itself, but without debate. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Business treatment!]] Once again, Mr. Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4099	I now ask for clarification, because it has prejudicial effect. Here the request was rejected to hold a debate on the statements by Mr Kostelka or by Mr Petrovic. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Who do you want to explain this to?]] There has been no rejection of a debate on the deadline. We cannot vote according to § 59 para. 3 GOG decides that, contrary to § 57b GOG, a debate on a deadline application may take place. [[Call the ÖVP: Very logical!]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Now the right scientist speaks!]] By the way, I believe that the whole House is very happy that the cow "Moidl" has no BSE.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4172	I also allow a long-term exercise to be followed by comments on these comments. Please, Mr Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4194	Mr President. I believe that there is no contradiction between the professorial statements made by Mr Khol. I have put forward the request to decide on a time limit and to hold a debate on this. . That is exactly what the political groups, Mr Khol, but also Mr Westenthaler, have just rejected. They don't care about the fight against BSE.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4224	Mr Ing. Westenthaler, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4245	Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! You can turn it and turn it as you want it: It has not been voted on on the content and on a political issue, but only on the fact that it is not possible for you to hold a second deadline debate here against the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You refused the discussion!]] That would be just as if you were to repeat your admission now and make a request that you should withdraw the issue you have missed today from the agenda of today's sitting. This is no longer possible, and the issue of wrongdoing continues to persist.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4284	Member of the Commission. Petrovic, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4305	I myself have tabled an amendment to put to the vote on my previous statements, but I do not see the difference that Clubobmann Khol has here designed from the Rules of Procedure, because it is perfectly clear: There is a minority right, or the right to debate, on a request for a time limit, which must at any rate be complied with, but under § 59(1) GOG, such a debate can be held on any application for business treatment by a majority decision. That's a stone and it's clear. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where is Mr. Van der Bellen?]] I therefore do not fully understand why this artificial contrast is now being constructed. If the government parties want such a debate and do not want to withdraw it, they can, of course, decide by a majority. If they don't have this will, that's also a spoken sign.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4350	I do not want to leave any ambiguities in the room and say: § 43 GOG provides that the National Council, acting on a proposal from the President – I did not make a proposal – or at the request of a Member in accordance with § 59 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure may make a request for a time limit. That is completely undisputed. In § 59 para. 1 GOG states that such applications for business treatment do not need to be submitted in writing and will be voted upon immediately, unless the National Council, in accordance with § 59, para. 3 decides to hold a debate on this request. There has been a vote on the implementation of a debate. The vote has shown that a debate on Kostelka's request or Pirklhuber's request will not be held. The special provision of § 43 GOG, which then continues to say that even without the approval of the majority, a debate can be forced by a minority in a certain limited manner, does not need to concern us here. So I mean that § 43 GOG was applied correctly in conjunction with § 59. I put this document aside and now interrupt the sitting by 3 p.m. The meeting was resumed at 3 p.m. and resumed.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4395	Ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with the agreement, I will resume the interrupted meeting at 3 p.m. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer and comrades on wage tax reduction instead of non-social tax policy (354/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4432	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 354/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4507	Before I speak to the honourable Member Dr. Gusenbauer gave me the floor and before I receive word messages on business treatment, I announce that Mr. Klubobmann wrote me a letter with the request that his content be communicated to the National Council. This letter reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4569	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, at 2 p.m., the main committee has met, and it was not the draft regulation on the agenda of the main committee to reduce the limit on addiction at heroin. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Where is the application?]] Mr President. ==References== October is this presentation of the Social Ministry in this House. We have not been able to achieve since the last year – due to a wide variety of acts of opposition – that this request is on the agenda today. The chairman of the Committee has put this request, not on his own initiative, but on the basis of a consensus of the parties to this House, but on this request, not on his own initiative. We tried to make this consensus with letters. The last possibility has failed in the morning when at 10.50 a.m., the head of the Social Democrats' Club has denied his agreement that this item is coming to the agenda today – and this, Mr President, in the face of a heroin find of 135 kg of heroin, a lot with which all Austria can be put to disaster, at the station of Wels and, above all, in view of the fact that two security executive officials were killed by a truck driver who had a addiction in the blood. Mr President. I therefore request, on this my word message according to § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, and I should like to speak after the vote in this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4613	Thank you, Mr Klubobmann. – Mr Oellinger, is your speech on this subject? [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – If it is not on this issue, I would like to announce the following. We discussed this issue in the main committee today. It is true that in the main committee we have dealt with this issue of supplementing the agenda or not including a point in the agenda, it was first discussed by Mr Fassleven, then by Mr Kostelka, then by other speakers today. I think it is not a bad use that we are trying to reach agreement on the agendas of the main committee. Of course, this proposal will be negotiated, because it will ultimately have to be negotiated and voted without agreement. However, the argument that, for example, the desired submission of the opinion by the federal states only took place this morning is not entirely to be rejected. I would also like to point out that today's main committee has been convened for one day, which is now a special meeting day, and that other committee presidents have simply cancelled committees such as the Examining Committee. I did not cancel the Committee's main meeting, I did it in contrast to other committee presidents from 2 p.m., but I took advantage of the time from 2 p.m. to 2.50 p.m. to deal with consensual points. And we have not even finished because we had to cut the meeting of the main committee unanimously and unanimously for the last item on the agenda and postpone this last item on the agenda so that it could not have been completely wrong not to negotiate further at this temporary meeting of the main committee. For business treatment: Mr Oellinger, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4662	Mr President. A part of my speech is considered as an answer to Mr Khol. I believe that Mr Khol's argument is unacceptable and unacceptable when it is stated that a problem is urgent, but at the same time the documents requested for months, the opinions which have been requested for months, only three-quarters of an hour before the meeting of the main committee, will be sent to the honourable Member for inclusion in the matter. [[Abg. Haigermoser: In the old coalition you only got it after the main committee!]] Furthermore, the main committee did not apply for it by the government parties. I would also like to say this on this occasion. Mr President. However, I would also like to comment on the actual point, on the reason why I have notified myself for business treatment. I think that the action of the government parties, in the face of a special meeting and a urgent request from the SPÖ, is to use the current, public and television-enforced debate to address a completely different issue to the public. However, because the SPÖ has also experienced a embarrassing mistake when it comes to the formulation of its request, which you, Mr President, have referred to earlier by Mr Kostelka's opinion, through his letter, I would ask that the meeting be interrupted for a short standing-präsiale so that we can also come to a procedure appropriate to the House in this case. I think it is wrong for us to postpone the debate on the SPÖ's urgent request (a) and (b) to carry it out in a way that would not be appropriate to the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4703	Ladies and gentlemen! It is according to § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure have been called for to hold a debate on the request of Mr Dr. Khol. It has now been mixed into another subject by Mr Oellinger, and Mr Westenthaler has also spoken on this subject, and Mrs Dr Petrovic, along with Mr Kostelka, has also mentioned in the debate on whether we should hold a debate on the Rules of Procedure. I am simply going through the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but I really have to consider whether these issues should be discussed in a stand-alone address despite the live broadcast, or whether we can carry this out in a reasonable, civilized manner in plenary. Please, Mr. Dr. Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4733	Mr President. The intervention of Mr Khol proves only one thing, namely that the two coalition groups obviously want to do everything, just not talk about one thing: the tax reduction requested by us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Increase! You want to lower the deposit amount!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: I am deeply disappointed!]] Mr Khol! Your request is not consistent because you have made the assessment materials available to us only today, although Lower Austria and Styria were already available on the 21st century. ==References== August last year – and have expressly given a negative opinion! – on the proposal that you now declare so urgent at once. That's why I went to the President's office on 19 July. It asked that this agenda should only be discussed together with a hearing. You have resisted it, you have refused. You want to decide, but do not justify why a decision-making is necessary, although your own countries tell you that clearly. Mr Khol! If you justify these agenda items with the tragic accident, with the tragic death of two executive officers, I can remind you that today a newspaper quotes the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure, who yesterday stated in a survey that she – that is exactly what you demand! – a corresponding security package will be presented by the end of 2001. So you want to take a little time off, which is not yet available to the House at all. Last comment: It's right, it's a mistake. I don't like it. But who doesn't happen to any mistakes? Ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition! I can remind you that it was on the 11th. August 2000 gave a message about your pension reform and that you needed 13 days to make sure that only half of it was announced. I suppose that was, in your opinion, a failure. Mr President. In this context, I would like to point out that there has been no contradiction to the correction, and I therefore ask you to make it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4787	Please, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic. . No, right, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler's coming in front of you. I was wrong. [[Contradict with the liberals.]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4814	Mr President. High house! Parliament, the National Council has a urgent request from the SPÖ for treatment, and Klubobmann Kostelka has stated that the SPÖ is calling for a tax reduction in this urgent request. I would also point out, on the basis of your previous remarks, that it is not a tax reduction that is required, but an increase, because the SPÖ has written in one point that it calls for the reduction of tax amounts, ladies and gentlemen, in this request. That's what this request says. I can't imagine that this is a print error, because the word "sinking" is very much different from the word "uplifting". Much has already been invented in this world, but no computer that can replace the word "sinking" with the word "uplifting". It is therefore not a print error, Mr President, but the SPÖ seems to want a fiscal deterioration. With the application, it intends to reduce the amount of the deposits for taxpayers – and thus a fiscal deterioration. [[Lively contradiction at SPÖ.]] Mr President. In § 74 of the Rules of Procedure, we find something about print errors in the explanatory words. In the Judicature, these are not only incorrect letters, numbers, signs and so on, but also omissions that leave the material law unchanged. Mr President. This is the Rules of Procedure. This request, which lies before us, and also the requested and desired correction, does not leave the content unchanged, is not a print error, but not only an blatant mental error of the SPÖ, but also a mistake that involves a significant change in the meaning of this urgent request. There is, therefore, only one chance to get out of this mess which you, Mr Kostelka, have put in your party by withdrawing this request, ladies and gentlemen. We demand that – and nothing else! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Or you will vote against this request in the vote. – First of all, an issue that must be discussed very quickly, if possible in a standing presidial. Secondly, It must, of course, be possible, according to the Rules of Procedure, to hold this debate on Mr Khol's request, since we have also proposed to negotiate this matter on the main committee of the National Council as early as 1 p.m. We were not allowed to do that, but we only started right at 2 p.m. This is a central issue which is particularly moving us because of recent events in drug crime. We want to achieve a reduction in permitted quantities. We want to discuss this, this is possible by business rules, and I therefore seek to allow this debate to take place as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4890	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4911	I am referring only to the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. I do not really want to say anything about Mr Westenthaler's embarrassing statements. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] With regard to the debate started by Mr Klubobmann Khol concerning the main committee, I cannot understand, with confidence, why we should discuss this here. § 59 GOG can be found in Section IX, General provisions on business treatment at the meetings of the National Council. They may lead all types of eligible requests to the meetings of the National Council. But if we start in plenary because television is present, any issues from any committees that you believe have majority to discuss here, then this is a clear breach of the Rules of Procedure and an abuse of your majority rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4959	I ask the four club chairmen to come to me for a moment. I am interrupting the meeting for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e4987	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. I would ask for your understanding if you would like to: I am also sorry that the sitting has been suspended, but there are three different Rules of Procedure interconnected here. These are so linked and opinions were so different that in this short period of time it was simply not possible to find consensus, and that any solution one meets may have very far-reaching prejudicial effects. The procedure I am proposing to you now is therefore without prejudicial, because we still have to get through all this thoroughly in order to preserve majority rights on the one hand, because in the National Council, the majority have the opportunity to also use their majority, but on the other hand, to preserve minority rights, which are also wanted and enshrined in the Rules of Procedure. I will now go the following way: First: I shall vote on Dr. Khol's motion. I assume that this proposal will find a majority. However, there is consensus that not three speakers per group speak on this subject, but only one speaker, and I limit speaking time as usual to 5 minutes per speaker. This gives all political groups the opportunity to comment on the subject that Dr. Khol has addressed. I will then give Mr Gusenbauer the floor to the floor for the urgent request. We will then debate the urgent request and vote on the version that Dr. Kostelka expressed in writing as the actual will of the SPÖ club. It was right – and in this we all agreed – to inform the assembly about it in order not to make certain corrections here at the Bureau. This is a transparent process, but it is also in the sense of the Rules of Procedure that the will of a political group is expressed. Amendments are, of course, possible at second reading, but not in the case of a urgent request. This provision, in turn, is a minority protection provision, so that the majority does not change the request of a minority in such a way that the minority can no longer agree. However, it is not necessary to protect the minority from itself. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why I would like to tell you what I am responsible for – without prejudice. I therefore come to the vote on the request from Mr Dr. Khol, on his subject in accordance with § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is decided by a majority – as expected. Debates of the European Parliament 3 GOG on the amendment of the Drugs Act (346 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5056	We are going into this debate. There is a voluntary agreement: per group a speaker, the speaking time is 5 minutes each. The first speaker comes from the group which has put forward the request. It is this honourable Member Dr. Rasinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5080	Mr President. High house! The government groups have several times – several times! . attempts to end the issue of border quantities in the main committee. Mr Klubobmann Khol stressed the urgency of this issue today. Just think: 135 kilograms of heroin, found in Linz, recently an Ecstasy Fund, coming from Holland, introduced to Austria, which could make tens of thousands of people addicted! The request for the government fractions to reduce the limit to three grams was not deliberately dealt with. And that's a pretty double-bedded thing when you read the following. For example, the SPÖ officially writes in the Vienna election campaign: Yeah, we're in favour of averting drugs. – But if you hear the new health city councillor Pittermann, who is for the release of hashish and even recommends the planting of hash plants, you have to say, there is measured with two measures and tries to be unbelievable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I asked the Vienna police today if there was a need for action. I was told the scene was more active than ever. I've gotten the figures from Switzerland – Switzerland is supposed to be a show country –: In Switzerland there are twice as many heroin addicts as in Austria. Switzerland has run a zigzag course, has allowed a lot of time to take this back again, there was a round and round. In Austria we have only half as many heroin addicts, and I think we should stay there – and not drive the zigzag course that you want to constantly order from the SPÖ and the Greens into false liberality. The four-pillar concept of Vienna’s drug policy, for example, explicitly provides for police action to be implemented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This was decided by all the political groups in the Vienna municipal council. [[Abg. Oellinger: We are not in the Vienna municipal council, colleague Rasinger!]] But if we in Parliament want a limit reduction, as we decided in the Drugs Act at that time, bureaucratic beatings are thrown at our feet because they simply do not want to. I'm going to tell you what three grams of pure heroin means. [[Abg. Oils: You know better!]] I've been caring for drug addicts for over ten years. I don't know any drug addict who needs three grams of pure heroin a day, that's the limit you're saying you don't get that. You either don't know what you're talking about, or you want to allow the retailer to do it. That's what I'm going to put to you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And retailing means that the labile youth between the ages of 14 and 18 – about this age of entry – is being seduced into drug use. Talk to the police! Let it be said that the scene in the Vienna metro stations is easy at the top and threatens to excite. The Dutch, who have always been very liberal, have gone down very well with the number of their coffee shops, because they have no longer become masters of the scene, and they are trying to push away the foreign scene. And you want to get her to Austria! I'm going to advise my party – even if you shake my head so much – that we're going down with the limit for medical reasons, because three grams of pure heroin are about six grams of heroin because it's usually stretched out. [[Abg. Oils: Also with alcohol!]] I don't know a heroin addict in Austria who needs six grams of heroin a day or three grams of pure heroin. If we do not, further tragedies will be caused – and you will have the responsibility to bear them. We finally have to stop having medical arguments that are a bit obscene, which is not too unpleasant!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5173	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5195	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rasinger, I am really horrified at what demagogy you are creating here and try to make a topic a topic of election in the Vienna election campaign, just to overcome your weaknesses, because just what you have just said here, three months ago, in a "standard" interview, you have classically denied. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] In other words, you have made a claim against better knowledge that you as a physician, as a scientist, cannot maintain. And I would like to ask you, Mr Rasinger, to make every effort for this demagogy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can only tell you what the day of today I believe has shown. We have tried here and today to have a discussion about BSE. You have refused to lead them because you know very well that what you have done so far is actually unworthy of a government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Instead, you tried to stage a discussion here. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the perfide, Mr Khol, and therefore understand...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5247	Mr. Dr. Jarolim! Please have a language as appropriate to this debate!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5263	Mr President. I am trying to apologise for this more intense language, but I am also seeking to understand that I cannot react differently because of this procedure, which I believe is an abuse of Parliament. [[Abg. May. Trattner:... if you continue demagogically!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Stop playing the rumple style!]] Mr Khol! You say you want to have a discussion here today. And what did you do? – You only handed over documents for this discussion in the National Council about two hours ago to the opposition parties. I ask you: Does your objective discussion look such that you do not give any information to those you invite to hold a discussion or at a time when a discussion is impossible? I'll ask you that! I believe that this procedure alone is a classic example of what you want to do here, namely simply misuse the subject of addiction for the campaign. [[Abg. Haigermoser: For what?]] I can tell you one thing: The question of transport safety is about as much to do with this proposal for a regulation on addiction limits as the question of social responsibility with this government, namely nothing at all! If you look through the opinions of the state governments, especially the state governments in those federal states in which you dominate, then you will realize that there is not a single statement – I would like to hear from you here – that would approve of your project, but - quite the contrary! – Actually, only statements that are destructive. For example, the country of Styria writes: There are significant objections to the draft amendment to the pharmacopoeia limit Regulation. – There was no detailed discussion with experts; we know from past discussions that you are anti-expert that you do not want to give any information that you hide the public in the discussion, because you simply know that you do not have the objectivity, the accuracy on your side. This has also been clearly demonstrated here today. The country of Styria also writes: After a detailed discussion with experts in the field of addiction work, the Steiermärkian state government is strongly opposed to the reduction of the limit of heroin. – And that for reasons that have been carried out afterwards. It is quite clear that what Mr Rasinger has done here has nothing to do with road safety. That is really the scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Were you 186 kilograms of heroin still too little?]] The Lower Austrian state government – ask your head of state Pröll! – writes: The explanations do not set out the reasons for reducing the limit for the following reasons. – You will even know a coherent argument, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Haigermoser: 400 million...! At the black market! In a truck!]] Isn't that reason enough to have this discussion with experts here? That's exactly what you want to prevent! The state government of Vienna is also opposed. Even the Austrian Federal Institute for Health Care clearly says – so much about your argument about the dealer –: The Advisory Council therefore sought a border crossing, which is in line with the health policy objectives and at the same time ensures the desired high level of punishment for drug dealers. – And in this light your proposal is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll finish. You have shown here today that this discussion is really nothing but a distraction from the weaknesses in the Vienna election campaign. You should be ashamed of that!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5375	Mr. Dr. Khol asked for an order for illegitimate expressions. I asked Mr Jarolim for an appropriate language, but I did not give this call for order because I have to take account of the fact that Mr Jarolim and his group were held in advance to bring small crime in the area of drugs to Austria. The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5415	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ today wanted to celebrate a glorious start in Parliament in 2001. [[Abg. That's what we've got this day!]] What you have achieved so far here is the following: suffocating speakers, requests where you can't even write on two pages what you want, but exactly the opposite: In your urgent request, you propose a tax increase for all. You continue where you left off last year: with a devastating performance here in the house! That is what people will find, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It would be almost funny if it were not so sad that a chairman like Dr. Gusenbauer, who is honouring this urgent request, would not be able to write into the request what he is demanding, and then say it was a print error. So no one believes you, because it can't be a print error if you confuse the word "sinking" with "uplifting". [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: (two federal law papers hold the highest level) Bundesgesetzblatt (Bundesgesetzblatts), Mr. Westenthaler!]] I think there are quite others with you in the party that already include some "legger" in you – in the hope that perhaps there will be a change of leadership in the SPÖ. I hope that this will not succeed and that you will remain here for a long time, Mr Gusenbauer. I really hope so with this devastating performance here in the house! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You might be almost happy, but I don't do it, because the drug problem is far too important to spread your bad performance here. Today in the committee where we would have liked to deal with this issue and also talked about it since 20. Mr Niederwieser did not be dealt with on October 2000, and I would point out that there are current cases of problem, all of which have nothing to do with this limit-rate regulation. I meant, of course, the devastating accident on the southeast tange, in which a drug driver caused the death of two police officers, but also the exposed import of 200 kilograms of toxins. That's what I meant. Mr Niederweiser! I will explain to you what this has to do with this issue. It has to do with the fact that this new federal government has set itself the goal of fighting drug release, against drug abuse, against drug abuse, and against the dealers you want to pardon over and over again. This is actually the decisive – and that is the policy we want! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They have a completely different social model: They want the release of drugs and thus the threat to society by drugs. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Worm and Silhavy.]] They have a councillor in Vienna, who was here in the House, Mrs Pittermann, who has made a clear demand to release drugs and to eliminate alcohol throughout Vienna. But that's her problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brix.]] That was her announcement: Drug release in Vienna. – That is not to do with us, however! But we are, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Young SPÖ, your boy SPÖ, your field organization – do you know what they want? – not only wants to set up drug sharing and further increase in border quantities, so that dealers can be pardoned, but also to set up fixers in Vienna, fixers' houses, where young people are invited to: Come on a coffee, come in! There you can learn how it works. Not with us, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It won't play with us! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You do not know at all what you have done with your 1997 regulation, which entered into force in 1998, in which you have defined 5 grams as a daily requirement for heroin. 5 grams! Do you know what 5 grams of heroin means as a permitted daily need? – This means nothing more than 20 to 50 grams of actual quantity, as already predicted by experts, of actual quantity that someone is allowed to carry. That's the drug requirement for someone who could deal with it for 14 days, so for a very "normal", not very hard drug addicts. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: How do you know?]] That's where we say no! We don't want that! In marijuana it is similar: 20 grams of pure substance. Do you know what 20 grams of pure substance marijuana means? – That means 10 kilograms of total! Every dealer can put on a backpack and is not punished. That's why we say: This limit-set regulation has been your fatal error, because you do not create dayrations for those who need it, but you do not create dayrations for the dealers who are allowed to sell the drugs to be imprisoned and can speak out. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The dealer!]] This is your fatal drug policy in Vienna! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We're going to improve the mistakes you've made. They have finally introduced, through this regulation, the impunity for dealers in these small crime areas through the back door. That's what all the experts tell you. We will therefore now correct these mistakes, and we are calling for heroin to be the first step: Down with this limit, so that there is no further danger to young people! In the future, we will bring heroin dealers down more quickly and consistently under threat of punishment, and we will also punish them accordingly. Drug dealers have no place in this country, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5547	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5576	Mr President. High house! We have today a situation that is unique in my young career here in this House: a special session, requested by the largest group, is suffering from a embarrassing error, with a completely non-comprehensible arrangement of a debate coming out on a completely different subject. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Would you like to forbid us to speak?]] We have been demanding that the documents on this subject be delivered by you for months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] This is a completely arbitrary debate, and I will read to you shortly what the experts have said about your project. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Back to what's going on here today. There is a urgent request which has failed in its form, with no provision being made for this request to be amended. There is now a solution, with the President mentioning this, also unprejudicial, a debate with one speaker per group. You just need to watch the clock. It's 15.55 now. We have a short hour of TV direct delivery behind us, and you, Mr Westenthaler, who is always pressured by the ORF when it comes to exercising opposition rights, here in this House prevent those from having their right to use the parliamentary instruments as well. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: On the matter!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I think this is a scandal! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This is also a debate that you can apparently use well for the Vienna election campaign – or believe that you can use well. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Do you have anything to say about this?]] They have very "original" posters, from which Mr. Kabas still smiles. He won't smile any more soon. He was also with the drugs, he was on the drug courts. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: "On the matter!"I said!]] – On the matter, I can just tell you: I would not like to explain to you the position of the Greens, but I would just like to read to you and quote what the experts say about your request. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The Austrian Federal Institute for Health, those who produce the Austrian drug report, the drug report that you have decided as a basis, say about what you, Mr Westenthaler, said earlier on. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The experts from Colombia were there!]] A maximum daily dose of 3 grams of heroin is available in severely dependent people. – What you want with this request is that people who consume should be criminalised to an extent that they are going to prison immediately. That's your policy! This has nothing to do with a reasonable drug policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Westenthaler! Let's get to the subject of alcohol. That is something your group usually understands more than the subject of drugs. [[Call to the liberals: This is immense!]] Let us look at what your group has practiced here in this House on the subject of alcohol at the tax for years. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer:... under drugs! You must be drug impaired! Incredible!]] Who has blocked the 0.5-promille rule for years? Who continues to advocate that persons who are affected by alcohol should be allowed to tax themselves? Your group! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] They are dangerous to road safety in Austria to an extent that is unbearable! Mr Kukacka is smiling in his bank. You know what I'm talking about. I say to you: The Greens are absolutely in favour of the fact that people who are affected by drugs have nothing to look for in road transport. There should be no one who is on the road with a vehicle, affected by drugs. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You're for drug sharing!]] Do you know what the handlebar, which caused the accident on the southeast tange, had in it alongside heroin – admittedly – or methadone? – 0.6 Promille alcohol, a quantity that is above the limit value! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What did you say?]] You should note that this is not just about the problem of drugs. It's about the problem of drugs. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't turn off!]] It is also about the problem of alcohol to a massive extent. I'll tell you something. You know what in Austria with people who listen to alcohol controls with values between 0.8 and 1.6 promille –! – get caught, happened? – There is no mandatory traffic psychological re-training. It only exists from 1.6 Promille. If you want to take action if you want to do something for road safety, then don't criminalise disease. Help them and worry They are there for safety where it is necessary: in the case of alcohol at the tax. This is the problem we should talk about!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5787	I now conclude this debate, which was held without prejudice in accordance with § 59 GOG. Applications have not been submitted; therefore, they should not be voted. Negotiating urgent request 354/A (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5814	We are now coming back to the urgent request, with which I started at 3 p.m., but then this debate has come between them. I now give the floor to Mr Gusenbauer as an applicant for the reasons of his urgent request and point out that, under the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e5878	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today we have submitted a request for tax reduction, which is why... – Are you intellectually able to understand or not to understand the agreements made in the Presidential? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Increase!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Well, we're just blaming!]] You should be aware of this once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I know that the entertainment value of Mr Haigermoser is taken care of, but the Austrians have been laughing since the beginning of this year – due to the fact that the massive loads have become effective. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister! They have brought taxes and taxes to a record level in Austria, even though new methods of calculation are now being introduced to re-check the tax and tax rate compared to the previous years. [[Call to the liberals:Falsch!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Let us talk about debt policy, about socialists!]] They have burdened workers, pensioners and businesses. You have made the disease more expensive, you have introduced higher prescription fees, including ambulance fees, and increased treatment fees. They weaken the contribution-free co-insurance for spouses by limiting them. They increase rates at train and post. They introduce tuition fees and thus tax students and families. They also burden teachers, you reduce unemployment benefits – especially the family benefits of the unemployed. You're burdening the accident pensioners, you're burdening the drivers. – The list of victims of your stress policy is very, very long. There has never been a finance minister in our country who has been so deeply involved in the pockets of the Austrians as you do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But the Minister of Finance not only grips deeply into the pockets of the Austrians, he has also violated the sense of justice of the Austrians, for: The Austrians are ready to sacrifice. The Austrians are powerful and powerful, as any statistics prove. Labour productivity increases from year to year. And the Austrians were also willing to discuss the contribution each individual should make in order to further consolidate the budget. But what you have done, what you have decided, has nothing to do with consolidation policy, but is a redistribution within our society, which ultimately takes more money from working people than is really necessary, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have tried to justify this by talking about "overarching debt mountains" for months, by trying to give the impression that Austria is on the verge of bankruptcy, although you know very well that, according to all comparable indicators such as employment, growth, social balance in our country, according to all the criteria you can consider, Austria has been one of the richest, wealthiest and most socially balanced countries in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, before the accession of this new federal government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have tried to increase the willingness of the Austrians to sacrifice, which is always present, even further by your kind of representation. You said: All that is done is only necessary to bring the budget deficit to zero in 2002. However, you know very well that there would have been other ways of fiscal consolidation. In view of your self-esteemed goal of achieving a zero deficit in 2002, however, you must be very surprised by the statements made by your colleagues, who have come every day with new ideas for additional expenditure before the new burden measures have become effective. Your colleague, who has proposed a child's allowance without a commitment limit, which, according to all estimates, will cause additional costs of 10 billion schilling and more, has publicly said that the Minister of Finance has informed him that the money is available for this. – That means you won’t have a zero deficit in 2002 but 10 billion schilling more in the cash register than you eventually need. But that also means that you take more money away from the Austrians than is required for the zero deficit, and that you therefore take more than you actually need. And that's not how we bet, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Austrians are very willing to make their contribution, but that there is a sound card playing that will take more away from them than is necessary for the zero deficit, that a number of other institutions are already working and that there is a high figure that will be in 2003 that all the demands they do not want from these surpluses – all this, Mr Finanzminister, indicates that you have either consciously appreciated or already thought that you will need additional money for individual special requests from your group colleagues. The suspicion that you have estimated is also not drawn to the hair according to your own details. I would point out that you were mistakenly pleased that the budget deficit was lower than estimated in 2000. Why was it less difficult? [[Abg. Böhacker: Because it was not spent as you did!]] – Not only because of the sale of UMTS licenses, no, you have spent 5 billion schillings more on wage tax revenue in 2000 than was foreseen in the budget. Although we are currently only familiar with the 2001 budget data, it is expected that the Austrian workers will actually pay even more wage tax in 2001 – just as they did in 2000 – than you have foreseen in the budget. That means: At the expense of the working people, there will be a sum of money that is not necessary for the zero deficit! Mr Finanzminister! There is an extremely fair possibility: Imagine the Austrians and say: I will have more money in the cash register in 2002 than I would be in favour of the zero deficit. I am therefore willing to return the money to you by means of a socially just tax reform, because as Minister of Finance I do not want to use more than I need in accordance with what I have said before. That would be fair, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, Mr Finanzminister, we currently have an economic upturn, the European economy is well, and last year there was an economic growth of 3.3 percent. This year, there will be an economic growth of 2.6 percent – a value which, because of your budgetary policy, is even more modest than it could be otherwise! What, however, ladies and gentlemen, will 2.6% of the economic growth ultimately keep the working people in our country on the wallet? – A modest net increase of 0.4 percent! That means, even in times of good economic growth, the working people in our country get a casual 0.4 percent real into it! I'm asking It therefore follows that: Where does the fair share of our country's working people remain in the economic upturn? Where is the share of those people who produce value added? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister! In times of recession, everyone has seen that one cannot demand more from the economy than it is able to give. But in times of good growth, in times also partly good pay closures, take away to people all that they would receive in addition to wage increases, through your stress policy. And this, in turn, leads to the fact that not only growth in Austria is weakening, this not only leads to a worse personal income relationship, but also to the fact that those people who work every day to make Austria richer have nothing of it themselves! And this is unfair, Minister of Finance! You need to correct that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we want to build a golden bridge, Minister of Finance. We'll build you a golden bridge to "out-of-court action". You have been photographed in a colorful magazine with a smoking revolver, with which you have clearly announced which robbery you are planning through the Austrian wallet. But we are kind to you, we say: We accept a "tat balance". If you are willing to return those amounts which you have taken away too much from the Austrians, in a socially just way, namely, 3 500 S for every payer of wages in our country, then we are somewhat reconciled, Mr Finanzminister. That would be a fair process! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this example, however, the social policy of this government becomes visible: At the front the 100 million schilling propaganda of the government is pushed over the state bankruptcy, then the next Taferl comes with the zero deficit, and with these two taferls every discussion is to be struck. There is, however, a tough distribution policy behind it, a tough distribution policy that will lead at the end of this legislative period, Mr Gaugg, that the working people in our country will be poorer by over 42 billion schilling than at the beginning of this legislative period! [[Abg. Gaugg: And do you make an application for tax increase?]] That is why I am telling you, as an employee representative, that you always want to be: Join us! Tax reduction now to give back to the people what they belong to, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister! As happy as you are with your gun-armed robberys through the Austrian wallets, you are very happy to be able to get away with the suffocation of the Austrian family silver. [[Abg. May. Trattner: What about the gun?]] What debate must we take note of in the last few days? They've already announced the Deutsche Telekom's stock exchange. I say: It was the largest privatization disaster ever in the history of our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] Not only did you bring to the stock market at the lowest possible time at the lowest possible price of one of the parade companies in our country, but at the same time you have also been insecured by the fact that the stock exchange price of this stock fell even further after the placement. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who you ruined!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And where is he today?]] That is, through this privatisation you have not achieved anything for the Vienna Stock Exchange, nor for the budget – nor have you made any contribution to the long-term security of Telekom. Ladies and gentlemen! This has nothing to do with economic and industrial policy, but it is the planless ruin of the Austrian family silver! And that is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The consequences of this are already on the table: Clearly, due to the lower revenues from Deutsche Telekom, it is now being thought about making further Austrian parade businesses worse. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Who robbed the post?]] How to read today's newspaper "The Press" think about even selling the VA steel, Böhler Uddeholm, the AUA and so on. One flagship of the Austrian industry after another, you want to place on the market: without objective for the economic location, for the continued existence of these enterprises and without perspective for employment! This is a planless policy, ladies and gentlemen of the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We would stand there "beautifully" in Austria, the Austrians would deal with their own wealth as you deal with the wealth of all Austrians, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Hornek: How you how Edlinger did it!]] [[Abg. Achatz: How you at the "consumer"!]] [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister! You will have to note that the "Speed kills" parole issued by Mr Khol – speed kills – does not help in economic policy, because what really kills speed is quite clear: It kills Austrian jobs, it kills the economic location Austria – and it emptys the pockets of Austrians! That's the balance of your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for you to do what is fair and fair before the desires in all other sectors increase – fair and fair! – to say: The cash registers are filled with tax revenue, unfortunately they are not so filled by the unsuccessful privatization of Telekom, but the working people who have to bear the entire "toll" receive back that part which you, Minister, do not need for your own purpose of the zero deficit. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Do you even know what you're saying?]] I'm telling you in all clear terms: 3 500 S less tax per person liable for wages and year is possible without leaving the path of consolidation! You can not only correct state finances, but also achieve your much-loved zero deficit, while at the same time returning to the Austrians what belongs to them – and this comes first before your government colleagues work with a number of special requests for additional expenditure. Be fair and just! Return the money to those people it belongs to, namely the taxpayers in our country – with a clear tax reduction!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6222	The Minister for Finance now has an opinion on the urgent request. This opinion should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6243	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Gusenbauer, I really have to tell you today, in the face of an old proverb: Understanding the SPÖ's policy is an art that no one can! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Swimlein: You shouldn't close yourself to others!]] I am not talking about the art that it takes to create in a four-line "long" application with the aim of expressing a tax reduction of 20 billion schilling, actually a tax increase of 15 billion schilling for all Austrians who are subject to pay tax. – This is an art that no one can really do in the government, and that is why it is good that the positions are so distributed, that you are in opposition here and give polemics of yourself that the population cannot understand. The population cannot understand this either, Mr Gusenbauer, because it was the SPÖ that raised taxes and taxes for 30 years until we came to the record value of 44.6 percent in 1997, a record value that the SPÖ will remain because it is reserved for you to have removed the maximum tax and tax level that has ever been in the Republic. [[Abg. Huber: You shouldn't close it to others!]] [[Objection to the SPÖ]] Stresses and savings packages – this is the policy that SPÖ has operated for many years. And that was also the reason why, in the best tradition, before you decided to change your course, you said last September – I can quote your comments in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten": "Why should not sources also be opened on the revenue side,... It could be possible to close gaps which have not yet been recorded in tax," said Mr Gusenbauer at the time. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Eh! Eh! That's not exactly what you did!]] And it also says: "It's not about scrapping," but "it's about spreading revenue." So in September of last year, you said that we should increase taxes in relation to budget consolidation. Now tell us to reduce taxes. – This is your first contradiction. Second contradiction: They want to make clear to us and the population since the last autumn that there are massive cuts in our social system. Your group is talking about a "bankruptt" of the Austrian social system, totally regardless of what the truth is, what the facts are. They know as well as we do that we currently have 725 billion schilling in social expenditure per year in Austria. 725 billion schilling! We have now reduced this by 5 billion schilling – in the sense of greater confidence, greater social justice, i.e. by 0.7 percent. [[Abg. Silhavy: What was social justice, Mr. Minister?]] And you're talking about a "bankrupt" of the social state in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Now this government says: We want to send the child money a clear family policy, a clear social policy signal for the families, so that a social benefit can be introduced. – To that, one should actually think, the SPÖ will agree, but no, the SPÖ is also against the child money. [[Abg. Silhavy: You'll get rid of the karenz money, Minister!]] There would be the old Minister of State of Weimar, no less than Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, as in his "faust" – I may quote – to you: "For a perfect contradiction remains as mysterious to clever as to fools." [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Your conflicting policy, Mr Gusenbauer, is nothing but simply turning it as you need it. [[Abg. Oillingers: You too! With the quote! That's not right!]] On the track only the materiality remains, on the track the reason remains. You want to be against everything, you make total opposition, but on the track, unfortunately, God remains the Austrian population, remains our country! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The only consequence that you prove is the only continuity you have in a matter of content is when it comes to debt making. It was you, your group, who for 30 years had appointed the Minister of Finance to the Federal Chancellor for 30 years. And in these 30 years, you spent more money every day than we actually had. Every day during this time you made 144 million schillings on new debts. You have handed over this country with 2 245 billion schilling to financial debt! 2 245 billion schilling of financial debt! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Edlinger!]] Now you're saying, Let's cut the taxes! That's a good idea again, we're reducing taxes! – But you know that this will lead to a further rise in government debt. A higher deficit – this is your line! In reality, Mr Gusenbauer, you say: We are against the rehabilitation of state finances, we are against the fact that the finances are being fixed, we are for a bird-strout policy, head in the sand, behind us the flood, that is your policy! – That’s total opposition, that’s irresponsible! That's why it's good that you're in the opposition. There is currently no place for you in this government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Huber: Go to the request!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore good and important that there is an Austrian federal government which has a clear, comprehensible concept that has a clear strategy that has clear objectives, goals such as the renovation of our state finances, because we know that this ensures the economic location, high employment in Austria, the creditworthiness of our country and the capital market. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: No one here...! Such polemics from the government bank!]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Follow the arguments put forward by Mr Gusenbauer!]] This is important for the quality of life, which is important for the prosperity of our people! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Polemik pure!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can assure you: We're good on our way! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You have not responded to any argument!]] Look at it: We are the third best in Europe in terms of unemployment. [[Abg. Huber: We have always been!]] We are the fourth best country in inflation among all the Member States of the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: It's getting worse and worse!]] We were able to achieve an increase of more than 12 percent in exports last year. We have record values for investments in Austria. We have also been able to afford a wage round, which, for example, will be at 3.4 percent Is-Lohn increase in the metallurgical sector. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You didn't contribute to that!]] And we are on a very successful course, ladies and gentlemen, also in terms of privatisation. And you, Mr Gusenbauer, stand out here today and have the forehead to say that this Federal Government is doing a wrong privatisation course! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's it!]] Your Federal Governments, your Finance Ministers, your Federal Chancellors were the ones that led the nationalized industry in Austria to the disaster. They were the ones who had to pump in more than 100 billion schillings of tax money, but still let many thousand jobs be lost. It was you, your Chancellor's climate, who, as far as Telekom is concerned, has failed to separate Post and Telekom, a separation that would have allowed for timely privatisation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] That is why Austria is one of the last countries to be able to bring Deutsche Telekom to the stock market. It was their finance ministers who burdened the post with more than 100 billion schilling debts, clearing it out that money had always been deducted for the budget. It was they who in Austria have made the signs for state enterprises as negative as they are worse than they are – with all the consequences for employment in our country. [[Abg. Huber: I still haven't heard an argument!]] They were the ones who handed over to us the nationalists, the rest of the state lights with more than 82 billion schillings to debt. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is we who are going to fix this question. We're driving a smart rehabilitation course. [[Abg. Huber: Will you say another word about the request?]] We've got the P.S.K. Instead of selling for 13 billion schilling for 18 billion schilling, so that very cleverly acted, we have achieved a very good exchange rate under the international conditions found with Telekom! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are also very good on the road with regard to the budget and the budget result of last year. I can report to you the expected results of 2000. At the time, as you know, we said that in 2000, we had to make new debts in the order of 54.6 billion schilling. We have now managed to cut off much better: instead of this 54.6 billion schilling of new debts, we had to go through only 39.8 billion schilling of "new debt", i.e. we were 15 billion schilling better: for the taxpayer, for the Austrian population. We were 30 percent better than it was actually planned. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] With these 15 billion schillings more, for example, we are also able to achieve 800 million shillings of interest, structurally year after year, of interest payments that we would otherwise have to make, because we are smart because we are sparingly dealing with taxpayers' money. This is a milestone on the way to our goal to stop making new debts in 2002, to re-establish a balanced budget for the first time in 2002 for more than 30 years and thus to clean up state finances for taxpayers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But it is also clear that consolidation has just begun. In this situation, as we are at the beginning of consolidation, you say: Now we hold the taxes for all in Austria! Do not even pursue a social policy objective You want it for everyone – whether they're poor or rich. This is your redistribution policy, which you are in fact forcing. [[Call the SPÖ:Falsch! Wrong!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Sit down! Not enough! Not even looked at!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy! The right thing is, whether you want to believe it or not, that you have formally submitted a request, which means: not tax reduction, but an increase in taxes for the population by 15 billion schilling! Ladies and gentlemen! You really wanted to say, but you didn't make it: Let's lower taxes! – In reality, this tax reduction would mean nothing more than a direct deficit increase and a direct debt increase. They have also made a comparison that is simply not correct. They say: Lower taxes for all – but we are against child money. They don't want to pay children's money, but rather lower taxes. That's your line. That means that you are against the fact that mothers are to receive child money in Austria, which means in concrete terms, ladies and gentlemen, that from 1. January next year a family with a child will receive 72 000 S of support, social and family benefits per year. [[Abg. Bures: What about the fathers, Mr. Minister? Don't men have any responsibility?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] [[Abg. Bures: Then they say goodbye to every responsibility!]] 72,000 S per year for three years. In other words, you are against the fact that there is a child's allowance to families with a child of 216,000 S, calculated to be three years old. They do not say that this child money should come from the family compensation fund where we have surpluses and the money is available. [[Abg. Huber: That the employees paid!]] This money belongs to children and families, so we are able to easily finance this child money – socially fair, with social security. [[Abg. Silhavy: "Very" social dish! That's socially fair!]] It will therefore become 1st. In January 2002, a very substantial family policy performance and an essential social policy signal are given to our children, in the sense of a tailor-made solution, a tailor-made solution, according to which the child's money will be given to all those who need it. [[Abg. Huber: Where did you get your child money?]] There will be no tax reduction for all whom you want to give, and thus also for the rich in this country. – We want to make social policy with confidence and greater justice for the population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Huber: This is very interesting: everyone who needs it! That's very interesting!]] We will introduce this child money, ladies and gentlemen, because the talents and abilities of our children are the prospects for the future of our country. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's why we have tuition fees!]] This makes child money a very important investment in the future of Austria. It is also noted how serious your arguments must be taken from social democracy, when you know that the Social Democrats in Carinthia have agreed to the child's allowance because they have said: This is an important social policy achievement. You should go to Carinthia to see how to do opposition policy. I recommend that. [[Abg. Silhavy: The karenz money was not abolished there, Mr. Minister! I hope you know that!]] The Social Democrats are a step further there and have said that child money is a real and important family policy and social policy achievement, so they are in favour and support the course taken by the head of state Jörg Haider. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why our budgetary policy, our social policy and our financial policy are simple to guide. We are saving on the expenditure side, we are trying to create a margin so that in the future we can have a perspective for a fundamental and comprehensive tax reform, which will simplify it and, if we can actually afford it, bring a discharge. We have set the priorities in such a way that we will use funds for research and development, more than ever before. We have provided extraordinarily 10 billion schilling for research and development. We have set a priority and will reduce additional wage costs in Austria by 15 billion schilling because we know that this is important for the employment and the location Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: That's why there's no tax reduction!]] Compared to last year, we have increased public investment by 5 billion schilling from 31 billion to 36 billion schilling, because it is important for us to give further employment impetus so that we can achieve full employment in Austria. We're going to be 1. In January 2002 child benefit was introduced as a very essential social and family policy performance. [[Abg. Bures: And you have introduced tuition fees!]] We make the finances so right that despite consolidation in 2001, the lower incomes in Austria – if I compare the old Federal Government with the new Federal Government – will have more Shilling than you did. This is just financial policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why this is a wise path that we are going here, a wise path that continues to be pursued and can certainly not be hindered in its course by such wronged urgent requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6796	The next speaker was Mr Edlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6838	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The government parties were, in fact, genuinely trying to dispel the issue from the agenda. This is not surprising either, because they simply do not want the actions of this burden government to be discussed widely and publicly. They are delected from a spelling error that – admittedly – must not happen. I am sorry that we have not succeeded, although we have made this clear, in reaching your awareness of what this request actually wants to express, namely that those people in Austria who during your eleven-month government activity reduced you with three load packs like a Christmasgan, that the more socially weak people are specifically getting back those means that you have taken too much out of the people of our country. I hope that this is made clear, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also very grateful to the Minister for Finance for his last comment; he has already done so several times. He says that the social dimension of this federal government is reflected in the fact that the lower incomes in Austria will have more than 5 billion in 2001 than in 1999. – Dear Mr. Federal Minister of Finance! I have already shown you several times that the lower incomes by the tax and family reform of 2000 had more than 15 billion in 2000 than in 1999. I am very grateful to you for expressing here, openly and publicly, that you, with your policy, removed 10 billion from the bottom three of your incomes in 2001. Thank you, Minister of Finance, for this open honesty! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria's state finances were and are not worse and no better than the state finances of our European partners. On the contrary: Austria's government debt was on average more than 3 percent below that of the European partners in the previous year. The Federal Government deliberately tells the population the untruth about the budget situation so that it can pull as much money out of the pockets of the small people. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Go, go, go!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr. Edlinger, please!]] Mr. Minister of Finance! Thankfully, you have said what you are planning: They partly confuse the intention of our request. We want a wage tax reduction, in such a way that the more socially weak, the smaller earners are overly involved; that is the meaning of our request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] What do you want? – You said it: They want to lower the corporate tax. But the "little people" of Mr. Gaugg will be very happy about this. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Because they have jobs!]] They want to lower the top rate. The "little people" in Austria will also be very happy to present you. They want to reduce additional labour costs on the basis of a misunderstanded priority. If a zero deficit is so important, then it cannot be dealt with as it is, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You proceed according to the model of the East Frisian bus: Everything is equally important, all sitting in the first row. – For this the streets are too narrow, and for that the budget is too small. That's why you decided to scrape the little ones. We'll kick the little ones so that you and your friends can be shared. This is the policy that I blame you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since you said that 30 years of social-democratic government activity remained nothing but debt, I would remind you in all modesty that Austria has become one of the richest countries in the world in these 30 years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser]] This has been applied social policy that we have done in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria has become a country with a high standard of living. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where the fried pigeons fly through the air!]] Austria is a country with social security for the widest layers of this population. We have succeeded in this, although the People's Party has been listening to this government for 13 years, ladies and gentlemen, and our aim of giving socially weak people their fair share has repeatedly tried to hinder them. You have to say that in all clarity. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] The fact is, of course, that budgetary consolidation did not begin in 1999 or 2000. Budget consolidation began in 1996 under the leadership of the Social Democratic Party. During the last four years of our activity in the Federal Government, we have succeeded in reducing the budget deficit by 3 percent, reducing Austria's debt by 3 percent, without the social policy reality of this country being confused to the extent that it has been due to your policy of the past 11 months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact is that the budget consolidation "Marke Grasser" takes place on the back of the small income earners. The tax burden will be – this is to be read in your budget – 80 billion schillings higher than two years ago, ladies and gentlemen! You have to break that on your tongue: The tax revenue was increased from 669 billion schilling to 749 billion schilling! This is "expenditure consolidation" à la Grasser! Even if you have disagreed with the invoice: Each Austrian taxpayer pays 40 S more tax per day in 2001 than in 1999. It's easy to expect. 80 billion schilling by 365 days are 220 million schilling, 220 million by 5.5 million taxpayers are 40 S. You do not need any staff, Mr Grasser, you can certainly understand that yourself. That is the policy you are making, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[The speaker put a table on the speaker's desk with the following title: "Tax revenue from the Minister of Finance 1998 – 2001: plus 80 billion Schilling".]] The particularly bad thing is that these loads are not socially balanced. The particularly bad thing about it is that you have shot far above the target by saying yourself that you have 15 billion schilling more revenue than planned. Where? – In the first place, wage tax has increased. That is why it is legitimate to say: If you already want to have the zero deficit by 2002, at this ape-like speed, please give back those people you took away too much. Be fair and honest and say that you have settled yourself, and try to enhance those people who have to come out with little money to beautify their existence a little. That would be something, ladies and gentlemen, to which you can also have the approval of the Social Democrats. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You say we are a nosage party, ladies and gentlemen. For God's sake, you will not believe that we will take out the little people with you, just as you do, and prepare for the year 2003 a tax reform that will help those who are above – and those who are below – continue to forget. You can only expect a strict no on the part of the Social Democrats. But a yes you can have if you lower the pay taxes for those people who need it, and not only for those who want it to be my dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There will also be no honey licking for taxpayers in 2001. I would like to say the following very clearly: Tax revenue will continue to rise as you yourself have expressed it. The tax rate will be accelerated by 1.4 percent in 2001. Government expenditure will increase despite your alleged expenditure-side consolidation rate. Finally, the debt burden of the Republic – it is not as you say you are reducing the debt – will continue to rise through the "Marke Grasser". Austria has one of the highest tax rates in history after a year of ÖVP/FPÖ government. You're gonna have to live with that, and that's what's left you. We therefore want to make corrections and make people understand that the small people are not represented by this government. And this also serves today's discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e6997	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e7018	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Edlinger, do you know what you are talking about in this urgent request? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No!]] [[Abg. Edellinger: Better than you!]] – They are all the time talking about more tax revenue to be distributed. But they want to do exactly the opposite. In the calculation were She's never been very strong. [[Abg. Edlinger: You still haven't understood it! It's going to be dramatic now!]] You think if you have a lower budget deficit, you already have surpluses. You're so modest now. These are not surpluses, but the budget deficit is a little lower. There's nothing to distribute. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] It is about the fact that public debt does not rise as fast as it has been before, and there will be fewer interest payments in the future, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Ex-Finanzminister Edlinger! I've got to help you get a little bit on your feet. It would also be good if you were not only advised by your employees who obviously write wrong requests, but you would also be well advised if you read reports, such as the Court of Auditors' report. This is the last time we have dealt with the Committee. There was no mention of this, but for example, what effects it has had on it. Its package of measures, namely the package of measures by Socialist Finance Ministers. It's clear: According to a WiFO study, economic growth would have increased without fiscal consolidation measures, but the available income has been reduced by these measures and the unemployment rate has increased. – These were the effects of your actions. However, the effects of your actions were also that this Federal Government has taken over a budget in the order of 2,000 billion schilling debts. You have to look at things again: 50 billion Schilling Debt ÖBB, 46 billion Schilling Debt ÖIAG, 36 billion Schilling Debt PTBG, 82 billion Schilling ASFINAG – I know you don't like to hear that –, 16 billion Schilling at the BIG, 35 billion Schilling at the SCHIG and 14 billion Schilling at the Environmental Water Economic Fund. [[Abg. Silhavy: Where are you taking this, Mr. Trattner? ... Explain that to me!]] That means that every day more than 680 million schillings are to be served on repayments and interest. Every day! [[Abg. Edlinger: They confuse financing and repayment!]] This is the result of your debt policy, and that is why the Federal Government has said that it must now have an end. [[Abg. Edellinger: Incorrect!]] – These are not the wrong figures, but these figures are derived from a Wifo report. How did you deal with the population? – They were the perfect collection office. The increase in direct taxes in 1996/97, the wage tax, income tax and corporate tax has brought 65.5 billion schilling. With the increase of indirect taxes, turnover tax, energy tax, insurance tax, 28 billion schillings. The family support with the child allowance has been shortened, the care allowance has been reduced, the care allowance has been reduced, the unemployment insurance has been reduced. [[Abg. Edlinger: You'll do it!]] You have increased the recipe fee three times, and you have introduced the motorway vignette. You didn't know what you did. That is why the coalition partner has been confronted with false facts. You said: 20 billion schilling is missing. Then it was 40 billion schilling. The final effect was 109 billion schilling. At that time, Professor Streissler also predicted this 109 billion schilling by saying that the ambitions of 1996/99 no longer took place. In 1998, the budget deficit was reduced only from 2.8 to 2.6 percent, and in 1999 you did nothing at all. That is to say, Streissler has already predicted that the major problems will come in 2001, and this is the problem that this Federal Government has to deal with, in so far as it has to deal with the fact that new debt will no longer be taken up, so that it will no longer be taxed in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] We – I have to say that quite honestly – are concerned with the children, the future of the children. What are you talking about? – Obviously only because you occupy posts. We want to look into the future and no longer burden new debts in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Huber: Costs of pay?]] How easy you can handle numbers too! Mr Klubobmann Kostelka said in a press release on the SPÖ's New Year's Conference: We will propose a tax reduction for each taxpayer in the order of 3 000 to 4 500 s per month. That costs about 12 billion schilling. We know that the wage tax increase is about 5 billion schilling. Mr Kostelka! This is the problem of once and for all. We have about 5.5 million employees, including pensioners. If you give these 5.5 million income recipients a negative tax, this will make up a tax burden or a loss in revenue of between 25 and 28 billion schilling – and not 12 billion. 5.5 million times 4,000 are 22 billion schilling alone! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You should be able to calculate! That's a problem!]] Then you had to switch to drop-offs because you thought the whole thing wasn't going out. However, the fatal error has happened to you in the withdrawal amounts that you do not want to increase the withdrawal amounts but to reduce them. This is exactly the fiscal policy you have always pursued. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Stop!]] [[Abg. Huber: That's embarrassing what you say!]] What this Federal Government wants to do is that the fund assets benefit exactly those for whom it has been saved and who also need it. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I understand why you get a red head!]] The previous socialist doctrine was always: If we have surpluses in the fund, we use the surpluses for any budget holes. That was always your policy! [[Abg. Edlinger: As much as you do, I never have as Minister of Finance!]] We have used these funds out of the Family Allowance Fund, for the pension rights of mothers, for their child-retirement periods. We used it for these things. You only used it to stop budget holes. That is why we say that with the children who are not eligible for election, we are as solid as with those who are eligible for election. The children who are unable to defend themselves are entitled to compensation from the family burden. If this funding from the Family Allowance Fund is possible in the form that children's money can be paid for three years, then this will be done. This is a huge family policy achievement from which this federal government will not go away. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you say that the privatization of Telekom was not the yellow of the egg – you said it was a "flop" – then I have to take you a little bit back to history. In 1988/90, the post office had a capital equity of around 100 billion schillings. Due to the overcrowded phone charges, you have added between 65 and 70 percent per year to the budget until the post no longer had any capital and today there are 50 billion schilling debts! You are the ones who have caused the post to have a low wealth or that privatisation was no longer so interesting because you have caused it much too late and cleared out the property of the post to stop other budget holes. Dr. Gusenbauer, this is the following: If you look at the current relationship between pensioners and births and notice that the number of pensioners is rising and the number of births is declining, you should also consider in your group how this problem can be solved. They are not even able to solve the problem of childcare. The number of childcare places has increased only by 180 from 1998 to the present time. Of these 5,900 childcare places 38 percent are only partially open or only at certain times. If you take policy seriously, you must admit that the surpluses from the family compensation fund belong to the families or the unmistakable children. This procedure should not be allowed to go away. This money should not be used to stop budget holes, but, as the Federal Government has said, you should support these children or these families in the future in order to make family policy different from that of the past. That is why this government is still insisting that we use these surpluses, which are currently present – that is, the lower deficit – to reduce debt, so that we will have lower interest rates in the future, and not for making any more gifts that we currently cannot handle.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e7261	Mrs Petrovic spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e7283	Mr President. High house! A special meeting serves on the one hand to exchange opinions and on the other, to inform the public about the views of all parties represented in the National Council. In view of the spatial circumstances, there is always only a very limited public in this House, there has been a certain use for some time now, which I very much welcome in itself to allow a broader presentation of the views of the political parties in the National Council through media publicity. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Enough place!]] If, as they have previously done, an agreement can only be reached by way of public-law broadcasting, which can only go to the point where, in the sense of impartiality and public-law, all party positions will be presented – we will have the opportunity to discuss the ORF law – then it will have to be complied with accordingly. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's incredible! That is not a statement on the Rules of Procedure.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a speech! What do you want?]] Neither was Mr Khol's report on the Rules of Procedure and the vote on it in any way to be taken by the Greens, nor was it the differences in the motion for a resolution that was not successful. I therefore place according to § 59 para. 3 The request to hold a debate on this my speech concerning the public of meetings and the validity of agreements on these plenary debates.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e7348	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Fischer has already commented on Mr Khol's speech, namely that it was absolutely in conformity with the rules of business. That's why this was the way it was going. We agreed, in a stand-in-chief in which I did not take part, on a shortened procedure, that each group can only make a speaker speak, so that the special meeting can be transferred in the context of reporting. I think that this procedure, like the President-in-Office of the Council at the time, is in accordance with the rules of procedure. I would like to say that from my side. Is there any word messages for that? [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Please vote! That's a request!]] Then we can come to the vote immediately. Whoever is in favour of Mrs Petrovic's request, I would ask for an acceptable sign. [[The SPÖ delegates are reluctant to rise from their seats.]] – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They are complete of the role!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The Left Chaostruppe!]] We shall continue on the agenda. The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Mr deputies, you have a speaking time of 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e7418	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking the Socialist Group for this special meeting, because so far every special meeting you have called for has been a plus to the government. This too will be it again. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am also grateful for this because the subject of this special meeting, even if you look away from your embarrassing error, is very beautifully the different economic and social philosophy of the new government and the old SPÖ. [[Abg. Edlinger: No self-criticism! That's the reality!]] What do you want? – They want to reduce taxes and finance it with debt. [[Abg. Edlinger: The Uralt-ÖVP! What about her?]] The concept, Mr Alt-Finanzminister, which has failed in the "consumer" which has failed in the nationalized industry, you want to continue! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Resist better knowledge!]] How was the "consumer"? – There was Zuckerln for the "consumer" members, at the end of the year a bonus that was financed by debt, and at the end it was the biggest trading plate in the history of the Second Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What was it like in the nationalized industry, ladies and gentlemen? – Social benefits, which no private company could afford, are financed by debt – and then the largest industrial plate in the history of the Second Republic, the largest trading plate, the largest industrial plate! – Not with us, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Faith I don't know what you're talking about. Your line, false concepts, but real pleas, will no longer exist under our government! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What are the facts? The Minister for Finance has made it very clear from the Government Bank: Fortunately, the 2000 budget implementation has shown that the deficit in the previous year was not 54.6 billion schilling but 39.8 billion schilling, but at least it is still a deficit of almost 40 billion schilling. You write in your application that this is already a "overconsolidation". "Overconsolidation" – a deficit of almost 40 billion schilling? We are glad that it is only 40 and not 55 billion schilling, but that we are talking about "overconsolidation", which reminds me of the choice of words of an earlier socialist finance minister, who once shaped the expression of the "absolute surplus". [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear Dr. Gusenbauer! These are the dishonest words of old politicians. Finally get rid of it, please! Be honest! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Be honest and say we still have a deficit! It is smaller, and we are striving for a zero deficit, but here we are talking about "overconsolidation" is really wrong and ultimately a mistake of the citizens. Mr Gusenbauer! Solution You're from this dishonesty of your semantics! Solve yourself from "insurances", solve yourself from "overconsolidation"! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: We're talking about 2002!]] Mr. Alt-Finanzminister Edlinger, you can now, of course: We do not want to finance the tax reduction through debt, but we want to use the family tax compensation fund's money for it. There are many press releases in this direction. And you did this yourself yesterday in the Financial Committee, Mr. Alt-Finanzminister. What does this strategy mean? – They want to take the money away from the families. This is theft, ladies and gentlemen, theft of family money! Is that supposed to be a modern tax policy?- Oh, my God! [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] We have always had consensus in this House about this and together we have always been ready to invest an amount of about 4.5 percent of the gross wage amount in the families. You want to get rid of it, Mr Kostelka, and you want to take this money away from the families. We will not allow the families to withdraw this money! We will not allow theft of family money! Don't get in foreign cash, Mr. Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: We want to give it to the socially weak, and you want to give it to the "G"stopper!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: "Theft" is a hard word for your own government!]] I have said earlier that the opposite of false concepts and genuine pleas is the government policy "rerule Austria". "Rerule Austria" means, in budgetary policy, to lead the country from the red figures into the black figures, Mr. Gusenbauer. You don't understand this because you always see only red numbers: in the party finances, in the "consumer", in the state and in the budget. Stop the red numbers, we need black numbers again! We need blue light again at the end of the tunnel! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: What does your Minister of Finance say about the accusation of stealing?]] "Rerule Austria" also means – and our party expressed this very clearly in Alpbach a few days ago – sustainability in politics. Sustainability! We're already thinking: What will the policy of the next few years look like? Mr Gusenbauer. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is a dangerous threat!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's why people are so afraid of you! People are afraid of the future!]] Faith You're telling me: "Rerule Austria" also means taking into account the fact that the common sense of citizens is much greater than you believe, Mr Gusenbauer. Your tactics, your policies are very easy to see. Lower taxes and make debts, that's the wrong policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Don't pretend that the SPÖ is a tax reduction party! I can still remember the tax reform 2000. We of the ÖVP have demanded a volume of 30 billion schilling. Mr Edlinger, Minister of Finance, said: 10 billion – and no more schilling! Finally, it was 30 billion schilling. [[Abg. Edlinger: Now you can suddenly remember? That's sensational!]] That was a It is worth this government, but the current government has to finance it first! Thank you to this government partner for helping us finance this tax reduction, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you believe from the SPÖ that you are a tax reduction party: The slogan "More money in the hands of the citizen and less money in the hands of the state", which is the greatest value of the Austrian People's Party, supported by the Freedom Party. The SPÖ is not a tax reduction party, it is a debt-making party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Faith You're telling me: We will reduce taxes, but taxes will not be reduced by debt financing, not by theft of family funds, but by implementing the expenditure reform. I am so honest to say, ladies and gentlemen – and every realist will say that: If we succeed – and we will succeed – in carrying out the transition from the state of administration to the state of service, then certainly not at the touch of a button, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's not at the push of a button. This will probably even require two legislative periods. I hope, Mr Gusenbauer, that you will not make any wrong requests during the next legislative period. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Whoever – without you!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The transition from the state to the state of performance is a huge project. I fully agree with the President of the Court of Auditors. First level: Check what tasks the state still has to perform today. Second level: Which tasks can be done by the state, but can make a private person cheaper? And third level: What does the state really have to do itself? We must make radical reforms here, with those concerned and not with those affected. I am therefore very pleased that the economy has also recently made a close-up with the Public Service Trade Union and said: The quality of public administration is an essential element of a competitive economy, an attractive economic location, Mr Gusenbauer. And we need to pay attention to this: We need an attractive economic location, because only an attractive economic location ensures income opportunities, secures jobs and is a guarantee of social security. Your debt policy, your electoral sugar policy is the enemy of income opportunities, the enemy of jobs and the enemy of social security. Solution You're from this antique policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e7694	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e7716	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the speech of the honourable Member, it is necessary to take a proper swallow first and then to do so. Mr President, it is fascinating, always fascinating, as you, in particular, but also other Members of the ÖVP, do, apart from very few lucid moments, to banish 14 years of a common government policy with the Social Democrats, where you yourself have been in the government, and so to speak, to leave the Social Democrats alone in the rain. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: We have spoken about today's request!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like I'm very much for this: Let us not just talk about tax increases or tax reductions, about who makes them responsible and who trusts them! Let us not only talk about the non-social burden policy of the Federal Government, which in the last twelve months alone has imposed a great deal of burden on accident pensions, on education – through the introduction of study fees, through the reduction of teachers – on the reduction of the unemployment rate, at the expense of these groups, but also, Mr Deputies, we are boldly talking about the waste policy of this Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Let's talk about it!]] Let's talk about it! First example: Childcare allowance. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's waste? Very good! It's a shame that television's already gone!]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like What you are doing, namely blaming the Social Democrats, they were "theft" to the families, I expect you, Mr Deputies, to be stupid when Mr Financier gets into the cash registers of unemployment insurance. Where were you? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Member of the Mitterlehner – he is not here today or by chance now – then goes to the public outside of Parliament and goes against the government to the Constitutional Court for this intervention, but inside the house, the honourable Member is stupidly so small when it comes to unemployment insurance, and says nothing about it. [[the speaker makes a corresponding hand movement]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: I'm standing by!]] And Mr Mitterlehner, please do the same. They have been involved in unemployment insurance funds to a billion-dollar level. Is that true, or is that not? [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes, I stand by!]] Is that unsocial, or isn't it unsocial? I am going to tell you the answer, I am still talking about it, but I will stay with the child care allowance. What you do with the promise for women, for the families, for your childcare periods are also recognised as pensionable, is a theft at the future of women, Mr Deputies stupid! You know as well as I do: Meeting in pension insurance They do not make sure that those women who now provide childcare receive, in 20 years' time, what they are promised, namely the recognition of these childcare periods, to the same extent as those women who are already on retirement. Then, in 20 years, you are no longer in the government, and then some government will have to go here and say: This black and blue federal government 20 years ago promised you the black and blue from the sky, in full recognition of what it can and must redeem in 20 years! – This is theft of the future! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] These are promises you make to people here and today by saying that there is enough money available, we also provide for your pensions – a promise you make in 20 years because They then thank God no longer to the government, will not have to comply with, but will fall back on the women and those who have these expectations. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: 20 years are enough!]] That's your policy! Childcare is part of a wasteful policy, to waste on the future. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: An investment in the future!]] You get into other pots, in this case into pension insurance, but you think that will only be effective in 20 years anyway. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, a second example: For the armor, for the armor, you have provided amounts for interceptors who, depending on the system, make up between 20 and 50 billion schilling. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: "For the armor"!]] You have the money for that. Kneefall in front of NATO, kneefall in front of the armament lobby! The Federal Chancellor has already given his cross that Austria should join NATO today rather than tomorrow. For this the money is available, but for the unemployed, for the women, for the accident pensioners is saved! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Third example – a pity that the Minister of Finance is no longer here –: privatisations. I can remember, perhaps in contrast to the Minister of Finance itself, that in the great "budget Rodeo", which was still before the decision-making process, he raised his expectations of auctioning UMTS licenses somewhat higher, Mr. Col. stupid, than what actually came out at auction. Well, no matter what, the Minister of Finance has said, we know that this will make the yield much higher in the sale of Deutsche Telekom. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Well, please, Mr. Stummful, is that business thinking and working? – Minister of State! If you're talking about the back of that, you're saying it! Is it really commercial that you throw the "family silver" Telekom on the market at scrap prices? Was it commercial that you were given a proceeds that is just over the 10 billion schilling limit when you subtract everything that is to be deducted? Was that really what You hoped what the Austrians were hoping for? No, ladies and gentlemen! No, you have completely failed in the privatisation question, namely, measured by your own demands. That's waste policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us take a different example from the privatisation area. That's where all the federal housing property is thrown on the market. What will come back in a few years as a burden on the budget is what the federal institutions will then have to pay to these outsourced institutions and owners – as a permanent burden for the budget! Every year, the budget for these amounts will have to pay more to the future owners – regardless of whether Mr. Prinzhorn is or otherwise some outsourced GesmbH of the federal government. [[Abg. Gaugg: Yes, yes: "Eigentum is theft!"]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's waste policy, that's waste on the future! And now, Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein, I am with you. Let's talk about where something could be done. I am absolutely not of the opinion that this proposal by the Socialists makes sense in all respects. We are not prepared to vote in favour of this proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy Group. On the one hand, in order to say it briefly, we do not believe that at the moment when we cannot say anything about the economic situation and the effects of these savings measures, this step is coming too early, and we do not want to experience one thing: that this government will once again have a right to request a package of savings in one year, a new package of taxes. - That's the reason. The second reason: With your tax reduction programme, you do not at all relieve certain groups which are particularly burdened by the Minister of Economic Affairs. We have calculated it through, and it is only next month that it begins to work – the Minister of Economic Affairs probably knows that too – for example with the unemployed. As a result of what the Minister of Economic Affairs has done with these many small measures – advertising fees, valorisation stop and so on – emergency workers, unemployed people between 1 000, 2,000 and 3 000 S per month are lost. That is the policy of this federal government! And these groups also don't help the negative tax because they can't claim it. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we propose that something should be done for the unemployed. But even more important is the fact that something is happening in the field of education. What this federal government is planning is nothing but to let the students of tomorrow and today die stupid. They are to be pushed into the special school by taking any form of support education. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Integration teaching is no longer possible, not only in Vienna, but not in the whole federal territory. It is no longer possible for children with non-German mother tongues to hold a corresponding accompanying instruction. These are your concrete measures! You don't care about these people! These are the people who actually come from underprivileged situations. But you don't want to do anything for them, you don't want to do Jota! On the contrary: They delete the opportunities they have had so far as to be able to integrate – whether they are mentally and physically disabled, whether they are about the integration of persons with linguistic barriers. That's your policy! We would expect you to correct these serious mistakes and failures immediately. You as a person with your income may be able to cope with a tax increase, I also with my income, but I hope you as the Federal Minister will not want to make it clear to me – and I would like to hear that from you – that you can take away unemployed people's quiet conscience and from the aspect of "social security" 3 000 S, 2 000 S or even 1 000 S. I hope you will not be able to answer that children and young people who go to school and have difficulties because of integration, because of language, are without support. Their children are not concerned, but these children are very well affected. We would have liked immediate corrections from your side. That would be the debate that we should have here and today.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e7912	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kubitschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e7934	Mr President. Mr Bartenstein! Ladies and gentlemen! For more than a quarter of a year, we have heard the same messages from this government: Austria is practically a rehabilitation case. [[Abg. Böhacker:... and the SPÖ is a rehabilitation case!]] After the division of this government, we are facing the bankruptcy, and only by a huge national act of power will it be possible at all to save this sinking ship from ruin. Ladies and gentlemen! We now also know the result that this downfall mood, which has been raised for months, has brought: The result is the largest tax package in the Second Republic, the result is also the highest tax rate in the Second Republic, even though Mr Grasser apparently found his own method of calculation. The result is that the R&D ratio, which has already been relatively low in the European comparison, has fallen even further, despite a announced technology offensive, as well as economic growth, which has also fallen below the European average due to the burden policy of this government. Ladies and gentlemen! These "recording achievements" are the consistent and logical consequences of an anti-growth burden policy, and the results are therefore not surprising at all. They are logical and, as has been said, the consistent consequence of a particular policy. However, I think it is surprising that practically the same day that a massive tax policy on Austria comes into being, the government opens up the discussion on how to give as many children as possible a large number of people as possible for as long as possible. For all those who do not need it, and for all those who do not need it, for all who have paid for these benefits, there are 6 000 s of children's allowance, and for all those who do not make a financial contribution, 6 000 s of children's money for all those who can earn it, regardless of how much. Ladies and gentlemen! I do believe that we are talking about the karenz money, that we can discuss it and find new models. I also believe that we can discuss performance expansions, but: A government which, since taking up its duties, has a burden package after another, must, I believe, be asked, in the face of such massive enlargements and additional expenditure, whether it has not covered the burden policy to a degree that lets any relationship miss. We live in a country that is happily in the top of family benefits, in the European comparison. On the other hand, we are only in the lower third for unemployment insurance benefits in Europe. Nevertheless, this government has tied up a package of burdens, which is absolutely sure to do exactly where we actually need a pick-up. Mr Oellinger has already pointed out that you do not have any obstacles to resort to the pots of the unemployed. Reliability is ensured in this area of performance reductions, effective measures are taken to bring about deterioration in the end of an employment relationship, and it is best to increase indirect taxes, fees and self-retaining, which are exactly the lower-income third, twice as high as the upper-third. If it is true now, ladies and gentlemen, that we can practically begin to distribute gifts over the night – this discussion did not start with the SPÖ, but this government – then it is an important concern for us to remind you of who actually carried the main burden on budget consolidation. A total of 31.1 billion Schilling will be charged to employees and pensioners in 2001. In 2002, there will be 37.1 billion and in 2003 41.7 billion schilling. Compared to this, the business side has loads of 14.6 billion schilling each for the years 2001 and 2002. And from 2003 onwards, when the commitments and announcements of this government are made, the economy will be able to complete with a plus of 1 billion schilling. These figures really speak for themselves, and one thing I think is clear: If this policy continues, the workers in this country, the small incomes and pensioners, and also those who are in a difficult situation because they are ill or threatened with unemployment, will definitely look through their fingers for a second time. If this policy continues, it is this group of people that will probably only get the crumbs of the cake that the government will certainly distribute before the next election. The economy has already deposited its demands. And the promised reduction in additional wage costs has only been postponed and not abolished; a reduction in corporate tax has already been announced. Agriculture, too, has already deposited its wishes, and the projected benefit of the biodiesel will certainly be demanded from agriculture, even if agriculture has not contributed to the reorganisation of the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be simple and simply an act of justice if you would simply give back some of the things that you have really done over the last few months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For example, I remember very well that Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel found warm thanks for the willingness to sacrifice of entrepreneurs in a budget debate here in plenary. In this situation, however, he did not find a single word for the willingness to sacrifice of workers and small incomes. He didn't mention them with a word at the time. And that's exactly what things are, that's the attitude that fills us with great concern. I therefore believe that we cannot appeal to this government's sense of justice at all often and not loud enough, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling on you today – and I can assure you that we will not do this for the last time today – to: Give At least back to these people what you have taken away from them in truly exaggerated zeal and beyond measure and purpose! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e7983	The next speaker was Mr Gaugg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8005	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is always surprising that the largest debtor of the Second Republic, namely ex-Finanzminister Edlinger, plays the chief prosecutor here each time and knows everything better than the current Finance Minister. I just wonder – the Social Democrats have asked the Minister of Finance for 30 years in this country: Why didn't you do all these things you're talking about now?- Oh, my God! 1 million people live in Austria at the poverty line, there are hardly any collective agreements for workers, a paradise was created only for officials. Under this light you can also see today's request for a special meeting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I can give you one more way: Mr. Ex-Minister Edlinger, who always goes through the area with his speaker's folder – more and more hot air is coming – could not even have impressed anyone with his speech today as a guest speaker at the Moscow party meeting. That's fact. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm wondering, What is the condition of a SPÖ requesting a special meeting, submitting a urgent request at this special meeting, and writing in four lines exactly the opposite of what it wants? I really wonder about the state of this SPÖ – it has to be completely out of the joints because you have been in despair for a year and you have not managed to drive a "spalt mushroom" between ÖVP and FPÖ. You're very sorry. They first participated in the Thursday demonstrations, then tried to talk brokenly to this government, and you have been drumming the same news for years, talking about a world downfall that would reign in Austria. If you say the unemployed pot is cleared, I'll tell you: The unemployed pot in Austria must therefore not be so filled because we are striving for full employment in our country – something that you have not succeeded in your missing social policy for decades. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] It is amazing that every single speaker from the SPÖ is here to speak and bets against the child's money, against the child's allowance, especially as your request, which you have made, illustrates the principle of foundry in pure culture. In fact, a wage tax reduction is to be achieved again for the service providers. You don't care about the weaker income recipients. You are about to implement the populist statement of your party chairman, who was quite desperate today – and I don't know who asked him to raise the tax charges in Austria. It's really a pity with you. The principle of casting can still apply to you in political work. The child's allowance is socially sound. Ask your SPÖ country party in Carinthia, ask President Ambrozy why he has given his consent to this child care allowance! Given this situation, it can't be as bad as you always try to present it. It is now necessary to save and explain the term "spare" to you, because if you had saved at the right time in the state-owned industry, you would have saved at the right time at the "consumer" would not have lost thousands of jobs. However, thousands of jobs have been lost – mainly, the officials in your areas have always been cared for and spoiled. Where was your approximation of workers/employees and the like more? [[Abg. Silhavy: Where is yours?]] Where, then, has progress been made in your era for the workers? In crowds they have run away from you because you have also disappointed people in addition to your debt policy that you have operated. And today you want to know that you can and do better. Someone said today – I think it was the party president Gusenbauer: The time for Telekom's exchange had been badly chosen! I agree with him because this step of privatisation must have been taken years ago, then one could probably have achieved a better price. I would also like to say the following: It is always presented by the SPÖ as if the purchase of shares would be like a lotto six, for everyone who buys it. It can't be. It is crucial that a healthy company will be left in peace by you in the future, because when you have access to the telecommunications mail in Austria, you have sucked off hundreds of billions of schilling to renovate your budgets. – Despite all the high deficits, loss of jobs and the like, more! I'm telling you today and here: The time speaks for this federal government, because "calculated" will be in 2003. Until then, you will have succeeded in preparing your disaster, which you left behind, and in looking positively into the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8090	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8111	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Homepage of the SPÖ: SPÖ for wage tax reduction instead of child benefit. Cast builder: Checkouts are definitely filled. MEPs Kubitschek: best family support in Europe. At the same time, the SPÖ is talking about the "confusion of a lay play group", which is the result of the coalition plans on childcare money. [[Deputies Silhavy and Dr. Jarolim – donating applause –: That's right! Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: Is this statement not a deep insult to lay play groups who make an important contribution to cultural life in our home country with immense, voluntary commitment? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Schwemlein: Who wrote this to you?]] I give the SPÖ good advice to read the government agreement of ÖVP and FPÖ. All important points are anchored in this – and these will also be implemented. For example, it will be the childcare allowance from 1st century onwards. January 2000 for all children; the single parents will be entitled to it for two years. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] There will be no one left as the then Women's Minister Prammer wanted. I quote: The other thing – in the SPÖ model – who never worked was always just a housewife, and that's only a few. – I think that is more than an insult to whole-house women, but also to many, many others. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But also an insult to the farmers who "never worked", according to Prammer!]] - That's right! At this point I would also like to remind you of the SPÖ's zigzag course on child benefit. At first, the SPÖ was massive against a karenz money for all. Imagine, the SPÖ is against the fact that full-house women – as my colleague said – are entitled to karenz money for students. I quote the then ÖGB Vice-President, who said: The proposal for a pension fund for all is a social crime against women in employment and is based on a smooth absence of workers' money. - Quote. Later, when the SPÖ noticed that it was wrong, the then Federal Chancellor Klima said: Karenz money only for those who "need" it. I mean, the SPÖ is exposed. [[Abg. May. Prammer: You too! You don't know either,...!]] We know exactly what we want, and we will implement it together with our government partner at the right time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They deliver the best Evidence that you have nothing left for families, even if you mean: Tax reduction instead of child benefit – even if the funds should be removed from the family tax compensation fund. Caster – where is he? – has obviously not understood the function of FLAF, I believe. The FLAF is there to create a burden-balance between those who have children to care for and those who do not. However, FLAF is not there to finance a tax reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We also do not want FLAF to be cleared out, as has happened in the last years and years, respectively, between 1989 and 1997, among the Red Transport Ministers, Strings, Climate Change, Scholten and so on. We, the ÖVP with Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, know how important it is that funds for families are not foreign to purpose. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Any schilling that is paid in the family compensation fund must benefit the families! That is why the planned family policy measures are necessary and also correct. We thus allow for the freedom of choice for families with children. However, the ÖVP with German Chancellor Schüssel goes one step further: Negotiations must be conducted on the general increase in the federal family allowance, because expenditure on children does not end after the third year of life, but goes far beyond that. I would also like to remind you of what we have implemented – against the resistance of ex-Finanzminister Edlinger –: the second stage of tax reform from 1. In January 2000, families receive at least 6 000 S per child per year. The much quoted and implemented childcare allowance is necessary in the near future. The government knows how it is going. The proposals will be put on the table as soon as possible in cooperation with the relevant two ministries, and I would like to conclude my remarks with a quote from Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel: It's about the future – and not about the past!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8235	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8256	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am always surprised at how arguments are used, once again, depending on what one or woman wants to justify, and I would like to add two examples. The state is constantly being compared to a company, and this government of the previous government – with the exception of the fact that the ÖVP was not entirely inaccurate – is constantly accused of acting in the same way as no company can: Debts made that burdened the future. I return the question to the economic representatives in particular: Would it not be in the case of a company that one is differentiated according to the reason why a particular issue is made, and the question whether this issue is suitable for bringing positive effects for the future? If you draw this comparison between an undertaking and the State – and for that you would speak a lot – where would the reasonable company invest State? – But above all in the fields of education, training, further training, the labour market and equal opportunities. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If a company continues to train employees today, without this immediately taking place tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you would certainly consider this to be positive. However, the Republic of Austria as a company does the opposite: Education is thinned, starting with the very little ones. The "child care billion", which was never one billion at all, but a bit more than half, has simply disappeared from the budget, although this was one of the most useful investments at all, because with one and the same amount could usually be created two jobs: the work place for the parent, usually the mother who was partially relieved, and the work of the caregiver. [[Abg. Silhavy: The company household!]] This has been very expected, while the other project, the company's household, especially for women today, is going to look even more closely at it in the future, because this short period for which you are willing to pay 6 000 s a month will later be fined by lower wages and salaries. After a break it is difficult to get back on track in the working world, we know that. Even today, with the current karenz money regime, only about 20 percent are in place, and in an even longer period, the number will disappear. And the age pension for women will only be half of the average male pension. – This is not a sensible investment that you propose here, and the comparison with the companies is wrongfully made. Or – this example was addressed by Mr Gaugg – the reserve fund. Mr Gaugg said: We do not need this fund at all, because the employment situation is very good, so we can calmly eliminate the fund. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: He didn't say that! That's wrong! Wrongly quoted!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Also, a company could not act in this way because a company will make reserves for very good reason, for example in order to prevent any damage, for example in order to cover future expected costs. For this very reason, within the framework of the Federal Government, within the framework of the Federal budget funds were created so as to be able to take care of the leaner years almost in the fat years. Just when the employment rate is high – and this Austrian employment miracle needs to be looked at in detail how many of these new jobs are still really life-saving – it should be possible to make labour market policy investments if it is perhaps necessary to counter them publicly. And this is exactly the possibility to rob you of the future! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There was a lot of talk about childcare money. Mrs Steibl has been passionate about this earlier, but I would ask you to answer a few simple questions. You said it was about freedom of choice. I claim: That's not the case! If it is really true that every caregiver, woman, man, can decide whether he/she is using the money either for home childcare or for the financing of a kindergarten court, a crib court, a mother-in-law, a dayfather, then I have to ask: But why is it that this money should be given once and for all in the case of twin or multiple births or when children follow each other closely? You'll have to explain this to the public. Do you think you get such a high extra discount that you can pay for the second child in the kindergarten zero Schilling? Or don't really think about it – you, who put these "child care billions" on zero: She'll stay home anyway!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's the truth! Or is there no connection with the shop opening or closing debate? You will now – Mr Bartenstein has made a very clear statement in this regard – stand for a limit of merit. I'm asking you why. Where the payment from the same fund, the family compensation fund, is concerned, which is essentially the subject of maintenance, and these are more men, I do not know where the family allowance is concerned, but where more than 90 percent of women are concerned, it is quite clear that the Minister for Finance is there, of course, the Minister for Economic Affairs is for a limit of merit. This makes it quite clear that especially those women you like to quote in your advertising brochures, namely the qualified women who actually say: I want to reconcile my profession and my family life!, nothing will get, although something will be paid for their wages. A commitment limit of 15 000 S is proposed by Mr Bartenstein. Show me a qualified woman who doesn't deserve this amount! What is the reason why there should be a limit on women's incomes which is not provided for in the case of a benefit that is more likely to relieve men? How can the ÖVP women agree with such a system? Or do you really have this social-political ideal of home and herd in mind and see the one-time exit as an ever-ending exit? Ladies and gentlemen! What's intentional is clear. In the course of greater liberalisation, more and more poor jobs are offered, not coveted jobs, but jobs in commerce, work on call, work in the evening hours. Social infrastructure has not kept pace. And that's exactly the function you're assigning to women: You should already be able to earn a bit of money for your vacation or for the credit for the car, just: equal participation, equal rights, equality – that is exactly what is prevented by this type of regulation. And that's not what I call saving, but it's actually the worst intervention into the future of a modern country.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8332	Mr Nürnberger spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please. [[Abg. Nürnberger: (on the way to the speaker's desk) or 7!]] - You've got 7, right.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8367	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister said in his speech that we could afford a 3.4% increase in the salary of the metallurgists. You, Mr Minister, clearly have an extreme short-term memory. [[Abg. Großruck: This proves he's still young!]] As early as June, your colleague, Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein, won a press release with the fence stake: It is a good union that does not cover anything, and you invited me to a discussion about wage policy in connection with the entire economic policy about some 14 days before the first round of negotiations. I did not comply with this invitation because I knew exactly what was going to happen to me there; in the opinion of the participants, there should have been a line for wage policy. Do you know, Mr. Minister, why did the metal workers get 3.4 percent? – Because the 200 000 metal workers in Austria ensure higher productivity and higher profits every year and because the employers of the metal industry are willing to give their employees a fair share. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what are you really doing? What are you actually doing, Minister of State? – With your tax policy, you take away more metals than the 3.4 percent they have obtained. That's what you're really doing! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is unheard of!]] I can reject that statement from you that we would be "firing" 3.4 percent: No one needs to "stair" a metal worker, because every single metal worker must work hard every day for his wages, for every schilling he deserves, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The past government can certainly be accused of having had a number of opinions on one issue or another. But what you've been offering the population in recent months or even since your start is no longer in chaos. There are five different words on a single day on a problem. Example Children's allowance: Head of State Haider: a clear yes to child care allowance up to the third year of life, Grasser: for earner's limit, haubner: Children's money even without a claim limit, FP's head thinks Grasser's model is unconstitutional. The "simple party member" then speaks in turn: Haider prefers main model. Finally, the greatest silencer of the nation speaks – everyone believes that it will simply intervene; but no, what does Mr. Federal Chancellor Schüssel say? –: Limits of merit are necessary, are imaginable! So he doesn't help clarify. I could continue this example now. E.g.: The "simple party member" refers to the separation of ÖBB as the greatest nonsense; Minister Forstinger defends the division of the ÖBB. Now there is even a treat that you have to face up to: In connection with the extension of the South Railway the "simple party member" does not match the statement of the Federal Minister. The warning is also coming: Be good, be good, otherwise she's no longer a minister, and the coalition will be announced. The "Kurier" of tomorrow can be found another special treat: The "simple party member" has a new advisor. In the "Kurier" one can read, he has the ex-party member as an advisor. Ex-Minister Schmid, who left the party, so the ex-party member was according to "Kurier" yesterday, that is, today in Klagenfurt near Haider and advised him, gave him arguments against Mrs. Forstinger. – So if this is not chaos pure and ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] We find the same chaos pure, Minister, in your financial policy too! The "simple party member" is a fine member, I must say. I can remind you that the Carinthian was the head of state on the 2nd day of the year. In a "ZiB 2" interview on June 2000, the public promised: "The liberals are the stronger partner in the government," he is right to say, "that's why we're going to give the line in budgetary policy, and that can't mean that we're still turning on the wheels of the tax burden and the tax burden, but there's going to be determination on the part of the free government members to impose a tax stop." Despite this promise, you get the workers in the bag. We have the highest tax rate we have ever had. A few more facts about your zero deficit, and I am now again quoting a skilled man, who I hope you will accept as such, namely Mr University Professor Dr. Gerhard Lehner; I think he is out of discussion. Dr. Lehner, 4. January 2000, says on the measures adopted under the title 'zero deficit': "Null deficit economically not really futureable, but better for sale". The advantage of Austria's tax policy from the 1990s was lost, says Dr. Gerhard Lehner. Since my speaking time is coming to an end, I can now no longer hold you up and count on how you took the pensioners into your pocket despite the increase in pensions – there are pensioners who will have less in the future than before – because I have to say a few sentences to Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler and his interview in yesterday's "ZiB". That was Marke Westenthaler again. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You liked it!]] - Aha, now he's here. Westenthaler claimed that Häupl was the weakest mayor we've ever had. Do you know what you are, Mr Westenthaler, Mr Klubobmann? – They are the clubman of a government party who takes the money out of the pocket to the poorest, just as a government in that country has never done before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler! If Mayor Häupl is really the weakest mayor, if he's so weak, why don't you get into the ring and fight him? – Because you know very well that then your career will be on 26th, 27. March would be abruptly over. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is he?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: From state interest!]] That's the truth! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] This interview was really touching. Schmalz just ran out of the TV when he said yesterday: Dear Peter, dear Helene and dear Susanne will find a candidate! So I wish you very, very good luck. I wish you very much luck in the search for a candidate who is bringing the chestnuts out of the fire for you. Maybe you'll find a "dump" or a "humpi" that stands for you in Vienna's election.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8501	The next speaker was Mrs Zierler. The clock is set to 5 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8523	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Nürnberger, I also very much regret that you have not had the time to present an account to us. I'd have liked to see that. You could not have presented an account, so I would say: I'm glad you didn't have time. I would now like to comment on a subject that has been dealt with intensively in the last two hours, namely: Community policy, social policy, social policy, social policy. Perhaps in principle. [[Abg. Oellinger: That sounds dangerous with you!]] A society is based on a generation contract. That is, children pay pensions of the older generation, and so it is a social-political task to support those who want to have children. For the SPÖ, children were obviously a purely private matter: If someone wanted to have any, well, but then the woman in question should get back to the labour market, so that she at least does something productive. She cannot, of course, earn it during the karence either. That is, if she already imagines herself, she has to stay at home, then either for a short time or just as long as it was possible by SPÖ-Gnaden, but then, of course, financially narrows down, perhaps as a social case, so that the woman feels how unproductive that is what she is doing. In this way, the SPÖ has pushed the women into the today so sad double burden whether they wanted it or not. As questions about child money arise again and again and clearly the facts are not known, perhaps a short explanation: [[Abg. Olympians: Then tell them!]] For the first one and a half years, that is the time for which there is now the karenz money, there is a slight increase. This is a clear grant for the next one and a half years. The value of the allowance for care is approximately equal to the income of a mother day for an 8-hour day with a 40-hour week. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Is that negotiated?]] – As for the calls, I may quote Oscar Wilde: Blessed are those who have nothing to say and keep their mouth shut. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Was that the closing point now?]] Perhaps some of the statistics that suggest that parents with children are particularly vulnerable. This means that child money is also the most effective form of poverty reduction, based on per capita income. That's 90 percent of parents from the second child. All studies show the importance of care up to and including the third year of life. We do not prescribe to parents how this is to be done and where it is to be done. A wage tax reduction would ultimately benefit the rich exclusively. Children's money – and you always forget that, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ – is a family benefit, not income or social benefit. Children's money is primarily not just about combating poverty, but it is generally about providing effective family support. The fight against poverty stems from the composition of the vulnerable population, and what we want to do is: Family work and family support. The previous SPÖ-model pay was a compensation for unemployment, a purely social benefit. Having a child is not a special case of unemployment. Children and families are to be encouraged – that is the position of this Federal Government. I would have a question to Mr Petrovic. She asked: What about twins? What about births that take place in a short row? – I ask the question: How was the karenz money so far? Was the karenz money paid double, triple, quadruple? For example, the economic and social researcher Christoph Badelt – perhaps you might also read it – considers the child's money to be reasonable, while ensuring basic security in the most financially difficult phase in the first years of life. You should not pretend that only the wife of a Director-General would be a child: In reality, many young and poor people benefit from it. Nor does Badelt allow the objection that the child's money is forced into the housewife's role. On the contrary: Every money provided to young parents poses a certain danger of mothers being pushed to the herd. That is to say, that has been the case with karenz money so far, but we will ensure that there are better return aid and better education programmes for women. Mr. Ex-Finanzminister Edlinger, who made some proposals to reduce the additional wage costs that would benefit the economy, has a model of his own, and he said: I would like to see the surpluses from the Family Compensation Fund used to reduce the additional wage costs for over 50 year olds, which would make older employees cheaper for businesses. - Quote. That is, the most creative of all tie carriers has a very special business promotion programme, which is to simply grab the families in their pockets. This government, on the other hand, has managed to set up a programme to promote older workers without operating economic support at the expense of families. Finally, a summary: All the socialists of money understand is the fact that they want it from others.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8602	The next speaker is Mr Principal. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8624	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Under the cover of tax relief, SPÖ wants to prevent future improvements in family policy. The wage tax reduction of last year, which resulted in a relief of 17 billion schilling, has probably been forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you want to take away the families money that is due to them. This must not be because the families are the foundation of our society, they make an important and sustainable contribution for our society, for our state, for our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Gusenbauer and his left-wing opposition should not be fully aware of the role of the family compensation fund. Or don't you just want to understand? The Family Compensation Fund has the task of making a balance between those who have children and those who do not have children. The goal of family policy must be to support parents in their expenses in such a way that they do not reduce them in their standard of living. Having children, especially more children, must not bring the family to the poverty line or even lead below it. Children live in 72.3% of the Austrian households of all 20- to 54-year-olds. 70 percent of these households have a monthly net income of 15 000 to 40 000 S. Around one fifth of children live in families with less than 15,000 S per month of net income. Personally, I know a lot of families who have to get out with very little money. I fear that many, especially ladies and gentlemen of the left half of this House, can no longer imagine what it means to have a low income, because their scale is quite different. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] With the financial resources of Mr Gusenbauer and his comrades, it is easy to follow and pay tribute to left ideas. To this end, we have to say: The greens are not really after the reds. Only one thing has to be said: The green clubman understands it better as colleague Gusenbauer to cover his left-left ideologies with a bourgeois coat. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In fact, the population has other concerns than the oppositional "trailer work". You, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, and your old Chancellors and old finance ministers have left enough worries. On today's statement by Mr Gusenbauer – he just left the hall – one has to say: The Austrian population, with its money and the government, is much more careful and careful with the money of taxpayers than the SPÖ with its money in the party register. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's right!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Hahaha!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's right!]] With regard to your expression, I have gained the impression that your current speaker, the Ghostwriter of your speech and the urgent request, must have experienced the "consum" plea actively and live. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 680 million schilling per day for interest and repayment of government debt are enough. We pay for 472 222 p. per minute. Many families in Austria would be happy if they had an annual household income at this level. This would amount to more than 33 000 S per month. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, your missing policy has actually been the most socially unjust and socially coldest of recent years and decades. In fact, we continue to pay the election sugars and the debts of the Kreisky era. It must be over once with the policy of multi-spent-as-intake! Just as every private household has to keep its finances in order, so does the state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Sustainable and socially just policies have a duty to deal with income as well. It must not create new burdens that our children and grandchildren would then have to bear. Ladies and gentlemen! But it is not just about financial support. I think we must also support families more ideaably in the future. It is about the importance we place on children and families in our society. We vehemently oppose the left, one-dimensional model that children must be in state care from birth to school end. We offer the families choice. We confess to the family, to their responsibility and to their diversity. The family is the most social and sustainable life model of the present and the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8718	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8739	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. My predecessor makes it relatively easy for me to replicate. [[Call the ÖVP: Because there is nothing!]] He accused the SPÖ of putting in front of him left-left. He has more or less subordinated the same to the Greens, only with the remark that they have a bourgeois clubman. [[Abg. Haigermoser:... Joschka Fischer!]] This is a "classical" Haigermoser! Please note that in the minutes. Mr. Prince! I have the impression that you've been following the ORF too much lately because you're taking over the Westenthal-Jargon like that. Apparently, the ÖVP also believes that with such a vocabulary as "left-left" there is a need for three-threading. But I can only recommend one thing: Have a look at the internet again and click on the farm calendar! This may be better than identifying with the Westenthaler too much. That's my first tip! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the matter itself: From me, you can quietly call it "left-left" if you worry about those who are increasing, not least because of the politics of this federal government – admittedly, also those of the old – to the wheels, and if you stand up for these people. The de-olidarization process in society is constantly on the increase, in any case, following our diagnosis, and you can't overthink that with your cheap martial vocabulary. What, please, is meant to be "left-left" – because of me you can call it so calmly – if you worry about single women and take action to ensure that these women can also participate in working life, even though they have children. This is a well-founded course of action which corresponds to a different ideological basis than that which you represent. That's so simple! I would like to turn very briefly to Mrs Kubitschek, who is an objective reason for the SPÖ proposal – this one is also for the debate, Mr Prinz, only to your memory! – tried to construct. She said that many groups of the population and not just the economy, as presented by the ÖVP, were very much required of sacrifice. - That's right! However, it raises the question of whether the SPÖ is supporting precisely those who have come so far under the wheels by the previous policy. I think it is also the task of policy to keep paying attention to how the results look, to distribute the resources and to intervene through tax and distribution policies. But we believe that your proposal is too indifferent with regard to these ambitions. That is why we cannot accept this proposal. However, we assume that in many debates we will still have the opportunity to deal with it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! We Greens believe that there are too few groups that have come under the wheels on increasing the amount of disposal. The increase in the so-called negative tax can also produce very little in this direction, because the circle of those involved in the negative tax is known to be only a smaller one. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This does not only mean that the beneficiaries of emergency aid and, of course, those dependent on unemployment benefit are not achieved very badly, and similar groups are more. That is our position, and that is why we cannot accept your request. In conclusion: It would be desirable if there were to be a little less polemics and melancholy. This is also addressed to your address, Mr. Finanzminister. I don't understand why you keep making the SPÖ out of the government bank's precepts. We have already discussed more often that this custom is new in this house. The SPÖ doesn't need me as a defender of duty, but a little more serenity, as you would otherwise see it, would not have been so bad at this point either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8803	The next speaker was Mr Böhacker. Time left: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8824	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a brief look at the introduction of this unfortunate urgent request from the SPÖ. They say that the Prime Minister of Free Trade is planning and demanding the full taxation of the proceedings. - That's wrong! That's wrong! In no way has the Minister of Social Affairs ever called for full taxation of the discharges. Secondly, you claim that Minister of Finance Grasser is the 13th and 14th. I would like to pay full tax. – That too is incorrect! That's wrong! Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, you do not take this urgent request seriously. A few minutes after television had faded out, 21 representatives of the SPÖ were counted here in the High House. Only 21 Members supported their own urgent request from their party leader Gusenbauer! So this is more than embarrassing and shows that you do not take your own urgent request seriously. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, have once again made the improper attempt to play the lawyer of the "little man", the avenger of widows and orphans, the importeds and the perpetrators, I must tell you: That went back into the pants! Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! You should think briefly: How were your load packs strapped? What does the Court of Auditors say about this? . The Court of Auditors points out that your consolidation measures are also more socially weak. Socially weak too! And in view of that, do you still want to talk about making policy for the "little man"?- Oh, my God! However, the Court of Auditors also notes that your tax packages were not used for administrative simplification and therefore did not provide the sustainability of individual measures. What have you actually done? – They have collected, but not reformed. That was the wrong way! But we, this new federal government, are going another way: We are making structural reforms in order to be able to reduce the tax burden to an acceptable level in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! You should also go into yourself and think about how your financial and tax legislation has been in the last decades. If you do not believe it, you will finally read the Court of Auditors report, which carried out an audit of the 300 most powerful companies in 1999. According to the Court of Auditors, these largest businesses showed by far the worst tax-related results. – This is a result of your financial and tax policy! The Court also notes that the income tax revenue – income and corporate tax – comes to 80 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises, while only 6 percent of large-scale businesses. – This is Your redistribution policy from bottom to top! The Court of Auditors also gives the reasons for this. Why is that so? – The reason lies in tax design possibilities and in a variety of measures to avoid tax, which large businesses can serve to a lesser extent than employees and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Considering that, in 1960, out of three claims, two paid a corporate tax and now paying only one corporate tax from three charges, one sees that this is a misdevelopment that you have to answer from social democracy. But it gets even thicker: The Court also notes that there are losses in large businesses to a level of several hundred billion schilling. What does that mean in practice? – This means that, despite billions of profits, these companies will not pay tax in the coming years. – This is socialist redistribution policy from bottom to top! But we, this new federal government, are going another way: We get the taxes on those who can afford it, and we relieve the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes. Since the SPÖ has made a 180 degree swivel and now wants a tax reduction and no tax increase, I have tried to find out from the SPÖ homepage what the SPÖ really means. This is where SPÖ's Managing Clubman, Mr Kostelka, the self-proclaimed tax expert, says, among other things: A negative tax is provided for those who pay less than 3 500 S of the wage tax. That means they also have 3 500 S more available.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8910	Ladies and gentlemen, your final point, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8927	Do you know what that means? – This means that someone who works one hour a month and gets 100 s for it deserves a total of 1 400 S, but receives 3 500 S negative tax. This shows all the inconsistency and chaos of your application!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e8960	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I would ask the honourable Members to take their seats, because we are now voting on the self-employed Amendment No 354/A (E) by Mr Dr. Casters and comrades on wage tax reduction instead of non-social tax policy in the version corrected by the honourable Member Kostelka without prejudice and also notified to the Assembly of the National Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of the SP delegates raised by the seats) Is this the tax increase, yes?]] – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The tax increase was now!]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e9017	We shall now proceed to the brief debate on the request of the honourable Members. Kukacka, Dr. Ofner, the Legal Committee for Reporting on the Government Template concerning a federal law amending the Drugs Act, 346 of the Supplements, a period of time until 9. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e9052	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Government Parties are in favour of setting a time limit for the Addictions Act until 9. The opposition was not yet ready to speak on this subject in good time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They have introduced a delaying tactic both in the main committee and in the judicial field. They have not approved such coordination of dates, so that no judicial dates have been established in January. Ladies and gentlemen! We no longer accept this delay tactic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is plenty of reason to talk about this subject. Think of the spectacular heroin fund, the largest one there has ever been in Austria! Think of the devastating accident with two deaths caused by a so-called drug driver! Ladies and gentlemen! We will ensure that a delay tactic no longer results, and will make sure that you are forced to face up to this issue! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Not only in economic policy, but also on this subject, this coalition has taken place to bring about a corresponding turn. And this also applies to the subject of "drugs in traffic". Especially the tragic death of two police officers by a so-called drug controller, in which a devastating mixture of alcohol, heroin, cannabis and the substitute drug Methadone has come to be a repeater! – shows how important it is that this issue is not tossed back, but that it is finally being dealt with. Ladies and gentlemen! The self-employed motion for a resolution tabled by the coalition parties today on the subject of "drugs in road transport" is not a matter of occasion legislation, for we have been doing so for years. For example, I recall that two years ago, the People's Party made a similar request. ==References== In June 1998, a package of transport safety measures was presented in the Transport Committee, which was unanimously decided there. It says – I quote – that: "The Federal Minister for Science and Transport, the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister for Justice are asked to develop a practical and sufficiently safe test procedure for the control of drugs and drugs in road transport and to propose a legal regime based on it." - Quote. But what happens, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely nothing! The Minister of Transport did not take note of this request from the Committee on Transport, which was simply ignored. This is what we will do in this legislative period! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What was the name of this transport minister?]] That is, I think, generally known: Mr. Col. One of them was. Another ex-minister is responsible for the fact that little to nothing has happened on this question. It stated to the Court of Auditors in 1999 on the fight against drug crime: "The special unit "Use group to combat addiction crime" has been reduced in human terms despite increasing addiction crime. The BMI lacks its own strategy concept for an optimal use of resources to combat the highly mobile, human and financially equipped groups of perpetrators with almost unlimited resources." - Quote. So the Court of Auditors itself shows, ladies and gentlemen, that the Ministry of the Interior has completely failed on this issue and has also misplaced the priorities! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have drawn up an own-initiative proposal to punish driving in road transport with the effect of illegal drugs. SPÖ, Greens and the then Minister of Justice rejected this at the time. The problem was suppressed, denied, impoverished. But this is still happening today, precisely from the same political groups and parties. Today it can be seen that drugs in road transport have long since been a marginal problem. Today's experiences of the Darmstadt motorway police, which can be read in the APA, show that - I quote - "many young people take drugs rather than alcohol, in the faith so that they don't notice." This is not at all as effective as it would be necessary. And that's what it says: "Of the drivers who were transferred, only every fifth drank too much, the rest is on drugs." In the case of such an act, does the opposition mean that this is not a problem, that it is best not to talk about it and that legal measures are not necessary at all?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schlögl already knew about this problem when he was Minister of the Interior. I quote: "Exinnenminister Schlögl also knew about this problem, but at the time of Question Time of the National Council in May-Plenarweek, he confirmed that drug use is also an ever-increasing risk of traffic accidents in road transport. At the same time, Schlögl admits that there is neither a comprehensive equipment with drug machines, nor a special training is currently offered to executives." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! That is an blatant, a blamable admission of failure and failure to do so precisely on this question! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The coalition will therefore do everything to further intensify the fight against drugs and also the fight against drugs in road transport, and it will ensure that all the conditions are created for people who are dependent on alcohol, but also on drugs and drugs to be neither granted a steering authority nor left to them if they have one. Ladies and gentlemen! We want – this is important – the legal anchoring of the vehicle driver’s obligation to participate in the identification of a current addictive impairment by carrying out a possible drug test. These drug tests must also be introduced in Austria. In many other countries they are already tested and already used, for example in Germany. Furthermore, the reduction in urine or blood sample in the event of drug suspicion should not be refused in future. This is possible today. If someone is caught and is suspected of having used drugs and therefore not being hesitant, he can – and that is without penalty! – refuse blood loss. This, of course, must be changed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Harmlessing strategies are completely inappropriate. We are not entering a new country on this issue either. We want a consistent solution to this issue in the interests of people and in the interests of road safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e9144	The next speaker was Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e9166	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, this problem is not as easy to solve as Mr Kukacka has just meant. If he here speaks of "tactic delay" and that one will now be forced to face up to this issue, I wonder who he wants to force. Mr deputies, your party itself is in the government, so you could have long been able to do all that you have called for here like an opposition speaker. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Let's do it too! But you've delayed it so far!]] I am even more funny if you make a request here today to send a deadline to the Justice Committee for reporting, which is President Dr. Fekter. You just need to get active! They themselves make a request to become active in a particular question. Something so absurd I haven't seen in this house at all! Do what's in there! Why do you make such a request yourself? - That's the first one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Secondly, I have read a daily report that Mrs Forstinger has in any case the intention of proposing and doing what Mr Kukacka has so vehemently called for here. She said at a meeting that she wanted to innovation the road traffic regulation, in particular with regard to so-called drug drivers, and that she would put forward a proposal by the end of this year. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Are you for it or are you against it?]] Now I wonder what the whole thing should be: On the one hand, Mrs Forstinger – rightly, and I think that is right – says that she is trying to find a solution in this difficult matter and is going to put forward a proposal in Parliament in this respect, and on the other hand, by means of a deadline request that this issue be dealt with by May 2001. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Are you for it or against it?]] Mr Kukacka! That's unscrupulous! Let us stick to this issue – and this is a delicate issue – at least on these issues. You do not have to give an election speech here. You are quite right – and I agree with you, and I believe that all political groups are in agreement – to seek a solution for a delicate subject. We are willing to look for a solution to this delicate issue. However, it must also be kept in mind that the House was already dealing with this issue in 1998 and addressed a joint resolution to the then Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Transport. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Mr Kukacka! It's unfair to say, They didn't do anything! – I can assure you: Colleagues One has done valuable work in his ministry, but has now been missed for a year, a year in which this valuable work has not been further driven forward. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You refused to deal with this topic!]] There are the mistakes you criticize yourself here. They are, in fact, criticizing Your own government, Mr Kukacka. One should not deal with such a delicate question in this way, but one should really try to find a good solution for that. It's fixed today and here: This federal government is tough. You're on the government now. You have to make solutions – but that has not happened to this day! They have not yet submitted practical tests to Parliament, either to the Transport Committee or to the Justice Committee or to the Internal Committee. It's up to you, proper, practical and also feasible tests – talk to the police! – to be carried out. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Do you agree?]] Mr Kukacka! If this debate makes sense at all, then only this one is that we can show it and now call on the Federal Government from here to finally take action so that no more innocent people do not have to die on Austria's roads. The proposal we are discussing here, which you have already quoted today, does not contain any concrete proposals for solving drug problems and drug abuse in the tax system. It does not contain a practical way of distinguishing drug addicts from those who, for example, have to take necessary drugs daily and are still suitable for travel. The tests you've addressed don't show that yet. We need to discuss this! The SPÖ will not agree to this deadline until the Federal Government is in a position to present to the House a proposal which has been agreed with the experts and which is practical. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e9282	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e9304	Mr President. Mr Eder, in his old tradition, continues what the SPÖ has been doing for years: It is still blocking a reform of the drug law today. [[Abg. Eder: That's not true!]] Mr Eder, you say that the government is sparse. Why is the government sluggish? If at all, then only because the SPÖ has blocked any accusation in the judicial committee so far, because the submission concerning drug regulation has been in force since 20. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Eder: I can't do that! That's something completely different! They're mixing everything!]] Who has the chairmanship in the main committee? Who's blocking the main committee? Who blocks appointments? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: (in the direction of SPÖ) Every appointment you have blocked!]] But I don't wonder. Drug release, liberalisation, just don't control – that's the traditional line of red-green coalition. [[Abg. Eder: No one says that! That's wrong!]] We will not join this line of government! We are making an excuse for improved traffic controls, because, as Mr Kukacka has already said, this is an urgent problem. [[Abg. Grabner: Are you afraid of Vienna?]] [[Abg. Eder: Tell us how we want to proceed! Tell me how it is!]] Mr. Verkehrspracher – are you still? – Mr Eder! Two innocent police officers had to die in a routine road traffic check. Explain to the relatives of these dead police officers what You have here from the speaker's desk that you continue to block that you still want to prevent drug tests in road traffic! [[Abg. Eder: No, that is not true!]] Explain You killed the children and the widows of these innocent policemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Eder: You are a doctor and cannot explain it!]] This traffic criminal not only had heroin in the blood, he was also subject to a drug-weaning program or replacement program. He also had heroin and alcohol in his blood to methadone. Nevertheless, he got – and that as a double repeater! – the driver's license again. Such abuses – deadly abuses! – let's stop it. This is the initiative we are taking today. That is why we ask you: Give your consent to this deadline request, because this initiative will be important for raising road safety, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. On the addiction law Novelle, which has long been amended and in respect of which you also block committee dates again, as I have heard [[Abg. Grabner: But only heard! You don't know!]] We had 17 597 ads in Austria in 1999 because of violations of the Drug Law. The drug deaths have already become more. After a short statistical decline, the number of these deaths rose from 162 to 174, mainly young people who had their lives ahead. - But you're blocking. They don't want to! You don't want any change! They close both eyes on drugs! It's a chiceria that supports you there. – We certainly do not participate in this, and therefore we are firmly of the opinion that heavy drug trafficking can be a punishment up to life. Life-long for drug bosses – this is an initiative of the government parties. There you can cut off a disc, because this is a dissuasive example. We hope that the really heavy drug bosses will once and for all be removed from the market. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Eder: Who rules?]] When I think of the drugs secured at Wels Station a few days ago: 135 kilograms of a heroin from Turkey were secured at Wels station! This is a possible quantity for 27 000 dealers at a 5-gram limit. There 27 000 dealers can run around without even being punished for it. They don't even come across the 5-gram crowd. Or: These are roughly more than a million single doses that push addicts. They're huge quantities! When you think: In 1999, "only" – under quotation marks – were guaranteed 78.9 kilos of heroin throughout the year. The one find, only the security in Wels: 135 kilos! There are serious criminals at work, and we know from these serious criminals that they are mainly and mostly foreign criminal groups. [[Abg. Eder: This has been seized because it is forbidden!]] Smuggling and illegal trafficking in drugs from Austrian citizens is usually carried out in relatively small quantities for self-sufficiency. [[Abg. Eder: That is forbidden anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We want these international drug dealers to put the crafts in place. That is why we are interested that you, too, give your consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e9513	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e9535	Mr President. High house! Mr Eder, not the Federal Government is sparse, but with this deadline proposal, we ensure that we do not become sluggish. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As President of the Justice Committee, I am very grateful to the House. You – did it right, Kurt: [[in the direction of the Abg. Eder]] I could easily put this issue on the agenda. But Mr President Fischer has already mentioned this in the morning: There is a habit that appointments only come into being accordably. Regrettably, however, throughout the year we did not have a single judicial committee appointment – although several of the government coalitions were proposed – because the opposition refused to do so. In the Enquete Commission on Criminal Law, the opposition has already announced several times and clearly its rejection to the Drug Law, to this upcoming novel, and in a motion for a resolution – I have it in front of me: 316/A (E), XXI. GP – the SPÖ has also explicitly demanded that the addiction limit regulation not come. And she also tried to prevent it consciously and specifically in the main committee. [[Abg. Eder: This is about transport policy, Mrs Colleague!]] In this motion for a resolution, the SPÖ called for the expert opinion of the criminal law survey. Today Mr Kostelka made himself there and said: We need an expert opinion! What does that mean? – Either there is an expert opinion, as you put it in your motion for a resolution, or we need one more. But if we need one more thing, why didn't you accept the proposed dates? ==References== January should have been an Enquete date. ==References== Janen wanted Harald Ofner to have a law-enquire date. ==References== January should have been a criminal law survey followed by a judicial committee meeting. – All the dates that the opposition has rejected! [[Abg. Haigermoser: All rejected!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's grotesk what you're saying!]] For these reasons, and also because of the strategy played in the main committee, it was obvious that you do not want this novelle and therefore operate a delaying tactics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is why I am very grateful to the House for ensuring today, as President of the Justice Committee, that by May this law will be dealt with, that there will be an appointment by May. Recently, criticism – including scientifically prepared – has become loud, that in the drug sector, there has been an increase in awareness of injustice, that under the defense argument "therapy instead of punishment" small-dealers are privileged, who themselves are not really addictive, but withdraw from punishment with a therapy. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You can't drag the dates like that! The Justice Committee is being dragged away from you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: She doesn't know anything!]] It is also necessary to re-examine the criminality of the disclosure, and better regulation of the obligation to notify. All of this is taken into account in the new drug law. We are responding to scientific suggestions, and the terrible drug cases show that our path is the right one. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You should ask the experts!]] We are willing to hear expert opinions, because there is a very good work about the fact that liberalisation and harmonization, Mr Jarolim, may not be the right way, but that these two terrible cases – both the death of the two police officers and the find in Wels – have shown that we need action there.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e9663	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e9684	Mr President. High house! It's an interesting meeting today. It seems that we have today 'colored hour', because we are constantly talking about requests that are not at all for debate. You're talking about traffic. Whoever looks at the drug law will have to look for a long time until he finds the word "trafficking", for a very long time, yes, he will not find it at all, because this is something completely different. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You didn't watch! I didn't even talk about traffic!]] Apparently it's like this: After that's just Usus, we're talking about something. That's a good thing, though. This will allow me to return to the limit-rate regulation. – By the way, Mr Pumberger: She hasn't been here since 20. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== There was a letter from President Fischer to the Federal Minister of State; one cannot even say to the predecessor. There was also an abuse. Mr Khol, I will read this to you. Maybe you can explain to me why this didn't happen earlier. At my request to the four parliamentary groups – fishermen write to the four political groups – whether consensus on the inclusion of this draft regulation – border regulation – on the agenda of the main committee meeting of 8. It was answered by the Green Club in November 2000 that consent to the inclusion in the agenda would be granted if the Federal Ministry of Social Security had been granted until 3. All opinions from the review procedure were forwarded to Parliament by November 2000. I should therefore like to ask you to consider whether it is possible to forward these opinions to the four parliamentary groups. So far President Fischer. We got her today, at 1:15 p.m. So if you're blocking here, you've got that in writing here. Why don't we have before the 3. November, about two months ago, are these comments received? Why not? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] An application for a deadline until 9. In my opinion, May is actually a time limit and not a time limit. Until then, it will probably not be a problem for the government groups to come to the Committee on a subject. If you look at the other committees, you know how fast it is. The accusation of the blockade by the opposition is simply absurd. You are the chairman, Mrs Fekter. I didn't even know what the opposition would have to do to block things over months. Except you don't handle the agreement like that. That was also the reason for the limit-rate regulation. You could say bad. We agree, we give it to you. We didn't give it to you, we're doing it anyway. – That was the reason, and the argument of the blockade in any committees I really think is an absolute failure. Drugs in road transport – this is not a matter of this law. Mr Kukacka, it is therefore very interesting that you talk about it. We believe that there should be legal arrangements. So the accusation, we didn't want it, goes by the truth as well. We are of the opinion that we should aim at the nuisance of road transport. There is a very interesting request from your colleagues from Salzburg, in the Salzburg Landtag, which brings in a motion for a resolution in which they write in exactly that. They are in favour of making blood tests because it is then detectable in what state of impairment a vehicle was steered. What you want is pure evidence of drugs or drug residues in the body. This has nothing to do with the driver's impairment at all. There are a few athletes in there who have probably followed the case of Daum in Germany. These certainly know exactly how long cocaine is detectable in the body. This has nothing to do with road safety at all. I mean, the only thing you want... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You protect the drug addicts!]] What is it, Mrs Fekter, if it can be proved that Mr Daum consumed cocaine five months ago? Then does this have an impact on road safety? – That’s simply absurd! This has nothing to do with impairment at all. One is affected in short periods of time – no question. We can talk about it. With blood tests, it is detectable. Let's take a look at this! Let's do that! By the way: One is massively impaired in alcohol: 0.5, 0.8 promille. I'm not going to continue with that, Mr. Kukacka. I'm reading to you about this wonderful addiction law novelle something from the APA. This novel has a funny story. After massive criticism by experts, it has once again been completely depleted; Definitions Regulation keyword. Quote from the APA: In view of the broad criticism in the assessment that with the novelle of the principle "Help instead of punishment," some other projects were eroded. - That's in the APA. The rest have remained a few things, for example, the lifelong punishment for wholesalers. A very original statement from the University of Innsbruck – the Institute of Criminal Law, not anyone – is: § 28 raises the previous criminal approach from 10 to 20 years to 10 to 20 years or for life. That's just ridiculous. culprits who are not impressed by the prospect of 20 years of imprisonment will also have little concern for this new intensification. - Quote. If you are talking about experts, you also need to look at these things, the last point for us is the slightest problem. What? You want to make it is the criminalization of consumers, of small consumers... [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Illegal drugs!]] Yes, illegal drugs according to law! They want young people who come in contact with cannabis to go to jail. That's what you want! But you will never get our consent!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e9778	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Kukacka, Dr. Ofner, the Legal Committee for Reporting on the Government Template concerning a Federal Act amending the Addictions Act, 346 of the Supplements, a period of until 9. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. Vote on two further requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e9815	We shall also vote on the request by Mr Kostelka, the Health Committee on Amendment 337/A concerning a Federal Law on the Protection of Human Health from CJK and on the protection against the dangers of TSE infection in animals (TSE Act) until 31 December. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, on the proposal from 353/A (E) on accompanying precautions in respect of bovine and transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (BSE) or transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. TSE prophylaxis programme) a period of up to 30 years. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-18-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00054_d7e9857	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted from 354/A to 364/A. Question No 1720/J to 1777/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 31 December. January 2001, in view, will be convened in writing. The sitting is closed.
