ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e1591	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and open the 63. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of 61. The session was held in Parliament's management, without any opposition, and is therefore deemed approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are ing. Gerhard Bauer, Rosemarie Bauer, Huber, Parnigoni, Dr. Partik-Pablé and Mag. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e1631	As far as the negotiating items and their allocations are concerned, I can refer, as always, to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a declaration by the Federal Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e1707	I announce that the Federal Chancellor has informed me of his intention to make a statement today in accordance with § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure on the results of the Stockholm European Council. There is also a desire to hold a debate on this declaration. I propose to the House that the Federal Chancellor make his statement immediately, that is, before entering the agenda, and that the debate should follow immediately. As regards speaking times, the declaration should not exceed 15 minutes. In the debate that followed, one speaker per group should speak at a speaking time of 15 minutes. On this proposal I reached agreement with the members of the President's meeting. Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e1746	Mr President. Yes, I understand, however, that, as we have always done, there are 15 minutes per group, as always, as each political group then divides. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] So it doesn't necessarily have to be a speaker, I thought of two.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e1779	I agree. It is important that 15 minutes per group are not exceeded. With this modification there is now the proposal that each group has a speaking time of 15 minutes. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. This is what the proposal has been adopted. Declaration by the Federal Chancellor on Results of the Stockholm European Council
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e1809	I can now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for his statement. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (with a view of even more shaky rows of the SPÖ's deputies) Can anyone wake up the SPÖ?]] - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e1847	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Since last week, before the Stockholm European Council, we were deeply prepared for it and, as I believe, we had a very good debate on the issues being dealt with there, I thought it was a good use that was reported about such an important meeting immediately after the return. I would like to thank you for understanding that we have found a way to make it possible, in accordance with business rules, to take note of the report and to discuss it, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to fit it into the budget consultation which begins today with the debate of the various chapters. If you report on Stockholm, you have to go back a year and recall the Lisbon Council, a very important summit, where the European Union has set itself the very ambitious goal of making Europe the "most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world" by 2010. – This is what the Lisbon European Council has to say. For us, of course, what has become of these ambitious objectives, for which the foundation was laid in Lisbon, is very important now, how has this house been built, in which floor we are just so to speak. I'd say, We have now built the first floor, but we are far from so far away that we can say that the whole house of Europe is finished. For us Austrians, it is important to see that within a year we have come very far in budget consolidation. We have come from the position of absolute European final light into the solid middle field. It is a real, lasting reorganisation of our public finances and the state itself. And that's good for us Austrians! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, at the level of the European Heads of Government, the topic of pension reforms – three-pillar model, sustainable rehabilitation and safeguarding of pensions – was addressed for the first time, because demographic changes are clear: There will be about 25 million to 30 million fewer workers in the European Union labour markets in the coming years. What does this mean for the functioning of the European social model? In this respect, an ambitious goal has now been set: By 2010 the employment rate of older workers, aged 55 to 64, will be increased to 50 percent. This is, I say, really ambitious, not just for Austria, because today 14 out of 15 Member States of the Union do not achieve this objective. We must therefore work to ensure that the employment rate increases, the employment rate increases, but also the employment opportunities for older workers are really secured. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And in turn, it turns out that the Austrian road, which is careful and socially compatible, is absolutely right to raise the early retirement age in stages by 18 months. We are on our way in this respect, which will ultimately bring about a permanent reorganisation of the pension system. Only timely action can really save us from a collapse of old age care. The third issue was liberalisation. There are still protected areas, and it is very important that we can also communicate in this area why these monopolys broke out, why should we be liberalized! This is not a self-interest, ladies and gentlemen. Cheaper natural gas, lower electricity prices, lower telecom prices, more efficient and better postal service, a competitive rail link in a European context are an advantage for Europe and especially for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Take the small example of the famous European Sky. No human can imagine anything underneath it, but if it succeeds in a functioning management of the European airspace, through a "slot regime", with which the airspace can be optimally used to have about 25 percent less delays – hand in heart: Which one of us has not yet annoyed about a delay in flight or about exchanged or only later after-sales baggage? – then it means an economic profit of 30 billion schilling, so as much as a tax reform with us. These are the benefits of a functioning European management, and we must communicate this to the people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In the same way, the European Community patent for firms, for which inventors have a safer and cheaper protection of inventions, patents and patterns, is intended. It is intended to ensure that a young businessman who is setting up a start-up company is better and cheaper in terms of capital. It is one of the great advantages of the Americans that there are six times more venture capital available and even cheaper than in the European area. That is why these issues that we have dealt with are also of utmost importance. The issue of compatibility of work and family was also discussed for the first time. We have taken a big step forward with our Austrian model, with which we want to be the world's peak – we are already today – both on the issue of facilities for children and, above all, on direct services for families. The whole of Europe has looked at us on this issue! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In the future – this is new and was also quite controversial – there will be indicators, comparative values in Europe, so that you know who is where. Then it will also be very clear that we Austrians are far ahead of European competition on this issue and for the first time provide real choice opportunities for mothers and fathers so that they can choose in freedom for the child and the profession. This is a quantum leap in social policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A number of ambitious and quantitative objectives have been set in this area. For example, the Union's employment rate will be increased to 67 percent for men and 57 percent for women by 2005. This shows how good we are in Austria: In fact, we have nothing to do with this, because we have been doing it for a long time. At first we are in those areas within Europe, in which the so-called soft issues, that is, the soft issues, or, if you want to, the issues "with heart". In all those areas where it is about the family, about job opportunities, about low poverty, about a balanced income distribution, about environmental issues or education, everywhere we are top in Austria! And we can be proud of that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But I don't want to paint the picture too pink. Wherever it has been regulated for too long, a market has been closed for too long, where for ideological reasons it has tried too long to postpone liberalisation, the liberalisation of electricity markets, gas markets, postal services, railways and other areas, we are in the final third place. That should make us thinkful, ladies and gentlemen. We therefore see where we are good, but we also see where we have to go! It has proved – and this is particularly important – that we need to do more in the field of education, the knowledge society – that was a topic in Stockholm. With these budgets, we are now investing 8 billion schilling more in universities and schools and 7 billion more in research. In this way, we have our top ranking, but also through a ranking, through a competition from European universities, to ensure that a genuine competitive and performance attitude also takes place at high schools. I can already think of it when, apart from ETH Zurich, there is not a single German-speaking university among the 50 best universities in the world. I believe that this is a sure proof of the need for reform and further development here too. With the mere insistence, everything must remain as it was and as we are used to it, it cannot be found. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Unfortunately, it has not been possible in Stockholm to set a date for the liberalisation of electricity and gas markets. This has failed – I say this openly here – in a member country. I regret this because in reality there is a very unfair competitive advantage for this country and its undertakings behind it. It can't be that with the monopoly on the home market, you deserve that game capital, which you go on a shopping tour on the liberalized markets! We have therefore called on the Commission, in accordance with Article 85, to ensure that there is no distortion of competition, and after long discussions, the Commission has also promised to do so. This will be called upon, ladies and gentlemen, just after this summit in Stockholm! We have taken a big step forward in one area: The launch of a modern regulation of the securities market was given. This was only possible after very long and difficult negotiations by the Finance Ministers in ECOFIN, still the night before the European Council. I would therefore also like to express my express thanks to Finance Minister Grasser for his commitment here, because the integrated European financial market from 2005 onwards and the securities market from 2003 onwards will be a quantum leap in the development of the internal market. Thank you, Karl-Heinz Grasser! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With regard to the Galileo project, we have taken a small step forward, because for the first time the private sector is ready to spend more money on it, so that it can be hoped that this important satellite system can be implemented even without the burden of public budgets. There is a clear focus in biotechnology. We all in the Federal Government have prepared together with Austrian top researchers for this European Council, because we believe that the topic of biotechnology, bioinformation technology – while preserving the ethical and moral problems that are undoubtedly associated with it! – will be a very important area of research in the coming years. For the first time, we have also succeeded – and we have, together with Sweden, strongly insisted – that, in addition to economic and social policy, the environmental dimension will be a common and central concern of the Lisbon strategy. What we started under the Austrian Presidency years ago has now finally been resolved positively in the Stockholm discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that Stockholm is not to be seen negative, even though in some areas it would certainly have been desirable to make a more precise and courageous decision by the Heads of Government. For us Stockholm is also important because, in addition to a well-founded foreign policy discussion with the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, and the President of Macedonia, Trajkovski, whose Foreign Minister was here yesterday and yesterday and spoke to all the political groups – a very dramatic situation has been elucidated and, as I believe, now some political disillusionment – could also address the issue of enlargement. In this The area is an essential decision to make, because we want to make enlargement a good one, and we want to make it a success in a reasonable period of time, until, for example, the election of the European Parliament for the first candidates. This means, however, that honest talk is made about those issues where there are objective problems. We have now discussed the issue of labour market for the first time at the level of the Heads of Government. What the newspaper says is that there was a competition between Germany and Austria, is absurd! Every step has, of course, been agreed between me and Gerhard Schröder before – who speaks first, who goes after who supports! I am very glad that we, Germany and Austria, have received full support from the European Commission. There was no one Member State against it when we called for a seven-year transitional period for the labour markets – from the accession of the respective candidates. And we have also clearly pointed out that this model is a flexible model. There is, of course, the possibility of creating greater flexibility in bilateral – with border agreements or bilateral treaties – and there is also the possibility, after a review, to reduce the time limit unanimously, if you do not need it, but there is also security for the population and for our labour markets. Having achieved this is a great progress of the Stockholm Summit! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this has opened the way for a decisive phase of enlargement negotiations. Of course, the Commission is now on the train – it has already held an internal orientation debate and will officially present its negotiating items and topics in the near future. What makes me happy is that you will actually see real successes within a short time. In addition to two other countries, Austria is a state in which all higher schools are connected to the Internet. Others don't have that yet – by the way not even the Americans. We have seen that in the capital market we have picked up a lot. It has been seen that among all 15 member countries, Austria has made the biggest leap in information technology within one year. This is already proved in an international statistics. I have here the country credit of the "Institutional Investor", so to speak, the ranking of the world: We have improved within a year from place 16 of the world to place 9 in the world! – Mein Ladies and gentlemen! We can be proud of this together! [[Call the Greens:By social reduction!]] In this sense, the Stockholm European Council was also a very important intermediate station on the road to making Europe a global economic hub.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e1985	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. We are going into the debate. Mr Caspar came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2017	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the Stockholm Summit, the spring meeting of the Heads of State or Government of the European Union, would have been an important event in the development of the Union, for people in Europe. After all, it was about making the European Union the most dynamic economic region in the world, with continuous growth, more and better jobs, with a secure social network, equal opportunities for women and men in the labour market and improved social cohesion. What's the result? – The result, the hard result, is the liberalisation of financial services and the regulation of securities markets in Europe. That's it! This is a technical result towards the internal market, but, Mr President, the European Single Market is not an objective in itself, the single European market is one of several means that can help to ensure a better life for people in Europe. It is an aid to a good life for people, for better, at least cheaper products on the European market, but it is not the goal! The aim is to ensure a good life for people in Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] High house! Let me therefore examine the question of what has gone on in those areas that are important for people in Europe, especially those in Austria who have less interest in technical matters. What has happened in people's everyday areas? And above all: What has been your contribution, Mr Bundeskanzler, as representative of Austria in these areas? When I heard your speech now, I had to realize that, for example, the issue of social cohesion in your speech has not even been strangled with a word. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] I think that speaks for itself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let me now look, on the basis of some specific examples, at what could have happened at this summit, what Austria could have brought in there and, unfortunately, what God has failed to do with opportunities. What is the first question, continued in the field of more and better jobs? And what did you, Mr Bundeskanzler, contribute to this? – You, Mr Bundeskanzler, drove to Stockholm with a list of priorities, consisting of more than 30 sections, which means nothing more than that you have not had priorities. [[Abg. Grossruck: full employment in Austria!]] They drove to Stockholm without a focus on better jobs. But that would be in line with people's everyday interests: jobs that can satisfy content and feed people! That's the goal of it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! You have been informed by your majority here in the House by the main committee, in which you have become famous for "the politics pursued by Austria" (as it is stated in this opinion) "the full employment (full employment without new debt). [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Beromen"!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] What have you done, Mr Bundeskanzler, except for the economic situation with your measures that you have made effective last year? What have you done, except to use the resources of unemployment insurance and to re-establish the budget? [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Why don't you talk about the billions that have been removed from us through interest payments?]] What do you have? You did, except to contribute to the fact that there is now less resources to qualify or, if necessary, to re-train people? The balance sheet is sad, Mr. Bundeskanzler: Austria has benefited from the European economy and therefore has full employment, but Austria has lost its pioneering role in this field. – This is the result of your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] High house! Let me come to the second point. Second question: What has happened in the area of safeguarding the social security system, pension insurance? [[Abg. Großruck:... fog lights...!]] What has continued with regard to the achievement of the European Union's objective of increasing the employment rate, particularly those of women? – Mr Bundeskanzler, even on this point there are no priorities in your luggage, nor in this point has your majority in the main committee given you anything specific! It is not enough to point to "the reform of the pension and health system, carried out by Austria to ensure its long-term performance" – to quote from this main committee recommendation. What it is all about is to make sure that more people find work, more people find good work, more people put in the system and thus secure it. And for the expansion of the employment rate, you have not even brought a proposal in your paper! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I should therefore like to ask you again: What are your government's focus on increasing the employment rate? What are the concrete proposals, Mr Bundeskanzler, which you have to make in this area in Austria and, if necessary, in Europe? - I don't know anyone. Let me come to the third point: Federal Chancellor! What are the concrete measures in favour of women in favour of their equal participation in the labour market? What have you done to make the self-employment of women more attractive? – I know that you have the answer to all the questions: Children's money. But this answer is wrong. Those of you who signed the coalition pact between the liberals and the ÖVP, who occasionally speaks, have said that the money for children is a contribution to the relief of the labour market, Federal Chancellor. He is only right on this point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore ask you, Federal Chancellor: What, then, is the real Austrian contribution to the abolition of discrimination against women on the labour market? What is the real Austrian contribution to ensuring equal pay for women and men in order to make the labour market more attractive for women and thereby increase the employment rate? It is not enough for you to state here that the objective which has been defined in Europe has already been achieved in Austria and that we have nothing to do. This continues the line that you do not speak where you need to speak and that you do not act where you need to act, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What have you done, what has the Federal Government done with regard to a better reconciliation of family and profession? [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: They've made loads!]] Where has this Federal Government's childcare offensive remained? – You have remained guilty of specific answers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is not true at all!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, a fourth question: What proposals have you made to achieve European economic growth – right now! – to secure it? What proposals have you made to ensure that the European economy is not dampened by the downside of the US economy or even moved towards recession? [[Abg. May. Posch: Separately dampened!]] Have you made proposals to finally use monetary policy in favour of European economic growth, as the US has done extremely successfully in recent years? [[Call: We did that, yes]] Years ago, Mr Bundeskanzler, you were accused of accusing the President of the Deutsche Bundesbank because, with the policy of the Deutsche Bundesbank, he would have helped to dampen the European economy and thus produce millions of European unemployed. What is your attitude on this question today? Where are the concrete proposals of the Federal Government? Where are your concrete proposals on this question? [[Call to the liberals:When do you make proposals?]] Federal Chancellor! In fact, the Stockholm Summit was not a big thing, only in one he has the developments, he unfortunately continued the standard of Nice – I must say – in the unkind of the Heads of State and Government to deliver himself in front of the eyes of the world ridiculous cock fights, like children in the sandcastel to fight for who built the larger sand cake. Federal Chancellor! We Socialists therefore agree that the next European summit on institutional reforms will finally be prepared differently and more concretely and earlier. We are therefore committed to ensuring that parliamentarians – national and European – and government representatives work together in a convention, because it is necessary to ensure that this policy of cock struggles of small men will finally be overcome. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: What should this statement say? That's really incredible!]] Federal Chancellor! We are therefore also in favour of a clear allocation, which tasks should be carried out by the Union itself as a Union and which tasks should be carried out in subsidiarity by the Member States in future. And in this context, we are committed to giving the Union independent opportunities for action with an independent democratic legitimacy. This is the step towards increasing the sensitivity of the European policy on everyday interests of people. We want this Europe, that the Europe of the Union is finally beginning to develop its capacity in the interests of people's everyday concerns. This requires a different and a better democratic basis, since the people affected must be able to decide what is happening in this Europe, and we must also overcome this form of intergovernmental conferences, this form of summit meetings. We therefore want a democratisation of the EU and, as a first step, a year, Mr. Federal Chancellor, also in Austria, where public debate is being held on these issues, in which the government actively contributes to the increased interest of the people in this Europe. And this will not succeed if the questions become more and more technological, but then when it comes to concrete everyday concerns of people, to work, to their social security, to perspectives for families that women and men can put family and children under one hat. It will be when it is ensured that people's everyday interests are at the centre of European and Austrian politics. There is still a lot of change to be made.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2254	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. You want me to put the watch on how many minutes? [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 10 minutes!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2289	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The content and the division of colleagues Indeed, one was not a master. We have heard better from you, Mr. One. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: No, that's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: The cast farmer is no better either!]] Their contribution has also shown me that unfortunately one has to start from the very beginning. I can soon remind you of a few facts that have taken place. [[Prolonged calls.]] First of all: There has been a summit in Sweden and not in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, This summit was held by the Swedish Presidency, by a Social Democrats as President. Thirdly, The majority of the Member States of the European Union have been led socially democratically, ladies and gentlemen. And fourth, Mr. One: You are almost tempted to protect the Social Democrats from you at European level. A completely new situation for us, but we will also be able to deal with it. [[Lively cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] One thing I have to blame you from the past: You have today accused the Chancellor of taking too little care of these European issues. Mr. Eine, that's exactly what you are saying. At the Nice Summit, when we even set up a "firearms" committee in this House, which, in constant contact with the Federal Government, accompanied by the further procedure, was not present at this summit, a single Member was not present: That was you, Mr. One. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He wasn't interested in that!]] If today you accuse the Chancellor of not caring about it, I'll return that accusation to you. It was you who in the past shone by absence and did not even participate in this important Treaty of Nice for your group. That must also be held. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But let me say a little about the Presidency conclusions at this Stockholm summit. If you read the objectives and follow them very closely, you can see that they are a little general, but they are exactly what we are doing in Austria: Full employment as a goal, more jobs, more mobility of workers, less State aid, instead a modernisation of the social system, new technologies, less debt. Ladies and gentlemen! All of this is included in the government programme of the Austrian Federal Government and is implemented piece by piece. We have a budget that we are starting to discuss today, which for the first time guarantees full employment without new debts. And that is a performance in advance of the conclusions of Stockholm. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the details, ladies and gentlemen, which we find here and which have already attracted special attention in Austria on the topic of pensions. It has already meant that an expert who is probably known to us would have to start the next pension reform tomorrow. [[Abg. Kößl: An expert at SPÖ!]] That is why I may be able to come back to what is actually in the conclusions. The right thing is that we face a demographic challenge, that our society is getting older and that we have to do something in the pension system. Last year we decided on a pension reform. Here's what it says: The demographic challenge can be met over the next ten years by increasing employment rates, reducing public debt and adapting social protection systems including pension systems. – The Austrian way, ladies and gentlemen, which we started last year and which of course is to continue. And if you are talking about the goal of raising the average EU acquisition rate of older men and women, between 55 and 64 years of age, to 50 percent by 2010, then this is something that we naturally have to accept as a challenge. We do not want to wake up in 2030 and know that there is a pensioner per employee. It would not be possible to finance pensions. That is why it is necessary to adapt our pension system to the new challenges. But not through a new pension reform tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, because we have already done our homework. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say that there has also been a meeting with President Putin, which I consider very important in the sense of the European Union's foreign policy. The fact that there is a partnership with Russia is clear that we need to strengthen it is equally clear, and that within the framework of the Nordic dimension, Sweden has a particular interest in working with Russia much more closely, which is known. I think that if this cooperation between the EU and Russia is really strengthened, we will also do much easier on humanitarian issues. For us, of course, it remains to be remembered that we still find a humanitarian disaster in Chechnya today, because if we follow the latest developments and see that, instead of the FSB's army as successor to the KGB, the "terrorists" are fighting there – under quotation marks – this is not yet a satisfactory solution for us. I therefore think that this dialogue must lead us to achieve something: for the people of Chechnya, but especially for the raising of prosperity in Russia. This would also bring us more security in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let me address the issue of enlargement. For us Austrians, it is crucial that we reach transitional periods with regard to the free movement of workers. Especially the organisations that are very close to the SPÖ, such as the ÖGB and some parts of the Chamber of Workers, have always pointed out that we need to achieve something. If it is really so far that the Commission is swirling down and talking about a transitional period of five years, which can be extended by two years, so that, in the case of free movement of workers after a seven-year transition period, that is, if we look at it in concrete terms, this goes beyond 2010, this is a huge step in the interest of our workers, especially in the border regions, in the direction we need, because a day-to-day commuting problem would indeed be a problem for these border regions. I would therefore like to say that it is a great success of the Austrian foreign policy and the German Chancellor that we can make concrete commitments here with partners like Germany in this direction. It is a success, ladies and gentlemen, that the Federal Chancellor has achieved this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, criticism is also justified, and I think that this criticism should also be understood in the sense of further shaping the European Councils in such a way that it is not possible to lay itself a lattice every few months, which cannot be skipped. One cannot now believe that, after three or four months, there is already the next great leap, after a Treaty of Nice, which sets out a fundamental new direction in the European Union. That is why it does not make sense to put pressure on ourselves to ensure that every presidency at two European summits needs to rethink a large part of Europe. I think we should learn from it and perhaps rethink the first summit of a presidency as an informal summit, which only speaks and does not take major decisions. It would probably also have been wise for the Swedish Presidency not to raise this expectation pressure for Stockholm. I therefore think that we should move in this direction and we as Austrians should also make a contribution to this. As it must be for us to achieve, in the context of the European Union's constitutional reform, the priorities that are important to us: in the sense of a European Union catalogue of competence, in the sense of fundamental rights to be included in this European Constitution, and a constitutional critique in the sense of a task critique, because I think that the European Union is now too far advanced in its competences. If we follow this, Austrian foreign policy will again succeed at the next summit. I see a great success for Austria with this question of transitional periods in enlargement, too, in Stockholm. And for the Swedish Presidency, Mr One, I think it was not as negative as you described it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2424	Next, Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger will speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2445	Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, the debate we are having today on the conclusions of Stockholm – and this is a great lack – would have had to be much stronger and much more clearly under the theme of "Nizza and the follow-up process", both with regard to your opinion on the German Chancellor and with regard to Nice's final paper. The following, ladies and gentlemen, we already have to say: From Nice and the consequences of what is now necessary for Europe, from the promised post-Nizza process, we find neither a central statement in the conclusions nor in the Declaration of the Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think this is an obvious defect, because here, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for an Austrian role model in Europe or at least the achievement of a minimum standard in the European debate, in an open, clear and informative debate on the post-Nizza process, on the consequences of Nice and on how this should really be implemented. I am not of your opinion, Mr Spindelegger, that we should now be leaning back a year and wiping the sweat off the forehead because we have been working hard in Nice. The Nice Summit – let us be honest – was overall, and not wrongfully, not a great progress, but rather a step back in the European process. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No, not from the Austrian point of view! From the Austrian point of view, this is a tremendous progress!]] Some Austrian newspapers, very much appreciated by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and above all took his comments into account, rejoiced, but they were alone on further corridors. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, let me now come to the issue which, in the public debates, but also in the final paper of Stockholm, very much dominated the discussion, namely the question of demographic development and possible counter-strategies against a problem with pensions, ensuring the standard of living and the financial life and survival of the older generation due to the demographic shifts to be expected. Here, too, I see a connection with Nice. We had a summit of governments, we have a commitment to subsidiarity in the paper, but we have in the central announcements, Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union's intention to intervene in the very different national pension systems with measures which I would like to address in detail, and to try, by means of a blank measure such as the increase in the retirement age – de facto the longer working time of the people of old age – to shave the completely different pension systems in Europe, so to speak, across the same ridge. But this is a completely wrong approach, because the enrollment of subsidiarity alone will not bring it. The different social systems in Europe require different solutions, especially as long as they do not even manage to introduce minimum social standards. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A topic in the field of pensions, which the European Union should very well address, but which obviously does not, is the permeability of pension systems for people working in different European countries. The accountability of retirement periods and pension benefits in the European countries – not to mention third countries – is currently a disaster. Today, mobile workers are severely hampered in their professional careers by the fact that mutual accountability and compensation systems in pension systems simply do not work. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, just to say that the old people should work longer is really the wrong way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Rather, the European Union's task would be to ensure the accountability of mobile workers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the question of safeguarding pension systems and demographic development, the Federal Chancellor spoke very long and very clearly about his ideas of the pension system. However, he did not talk about it – and I do not think that it is a coincidence – that the same clarity is used to discuss and establish the increase in women's employment rate, including with regard to childcare, including research into the protection of women in old age and the like. Ladies and gentlemen! With a high female employment rate alone, you will not be able to secure a pension system across Europe and you will not be able to establish justice for women across Europe. If you proceed according to the lawn mower principle currently in force, you will only achieve the following: For women, the proportion of so-called working will increase enormously, namely those women who work – either part-time or full-time – but who remain far below men's wage opportunities and cannot even meet the central needs with their wages. This cannot be the future of a women's employment rate. Federal Chancellor! If you don't even mention this accordingly, I must fear that the subject is very subordinate for you. This is also reflected in the main committee debate we have had. The opinion – colleague It has already been quoted by one person – which you have been told by your majority and which has called for the Europeans to praise us for our child's money, has been entirely in addition to these needs for action and has nothing to do with what are really the core problems in the current European debate. Federal Chancellor! I would also like to say something about this: If you say in your speech that all of Europe has looked at us for these child money proposals, then perhaps this may have been presented in some Austrian paper, but I couldn't find any European newspaper that only shared this praise in this area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: You should read more international newspapers!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You should also read international newspapers!]] The last sentence, as I would like to end with something positive: The Stockholm Council has committed itself to taking the Kyoto Protocols into account and has again stressed the need for action in this area. Mr. Federal Chancellor, here you can be a pioneer, here I ask you to be a pioneer. This would be very good for Austria, as it stands in Europe today.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2551	Next word: Mr Schweitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2572	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Let me start with a thank you to colleagues. Mr President, I would like to thank you for this very true billing with the Socialist International. We couldn't have done this better than you did today. In preparing for this debate, Mr One, I have tried very hard to find traces of the German Chancellor's climate at that time, and I have also tried to find such a one, and I have also tried to find traces of the recent Federal Chancellor's climate at this European level. But my efforts, Mr One, were unsuccessful. The motto: What remained of the Wörthersee? I was well-invented, but I did not find anything, Mr. Einm. – This is the EU policy of the chancellors that your group has heard. Since this Federal Government, Mr. Einm, there have been Austrian traces at the European level. In my opinion, the Nice Summit was the first summit in which Austria succeeded in bringing its ideas into the policy of the European Union. They have criticized this, but this government with this Chancellor has managed to represent Austrian interests in such a way that they have found their rainfall in the Treaty of Nice. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But I will also deal critically with the results of Stockholm, and I would like to stress, Federal Chancellor: This Stockholm Summit has once again shown that this European Union is not yet the Union of Citizens. Looking back, it turns out that the only way to build the internal market has worked quite well. However, when it comes to other solutions to the problem, the Union is still not convincing today. To date – and this has been noted on several occasions internationally – this Union has not been able to convince on security issues. Here she is still guilty of proving the competence. The Union's role in the various Balkan conflicts was and is a very modest one. Especially remarkable – this criticism is once again addressed to socialists or social democrats – is also the fact that the Swedish Presidency wanted to go past reality, as if there were no BSE problem, as if there were no foot-and-mouth disease, as if there were no dioxin scandal. The Stockholm Summit should have gone on without addressing these issues, and that cannot be it. If these problems exist, one must also deal with them, even though the success of the summit may be at risk. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, it was important to continue pursuing the Lisbon strategy. The dynamicisation of the economic area and the expansion of competitiveness using new technologies are an important issue, and this needs to be taken into account. But that the EU politicians at the summit have only adopted a declaration in the hope and confidence that the animal diseases of BSE and PPS will soon be under control was clearly too little, Federal Chancellor. This critical remark is acceptable to me. We do not want an EU policy without regard to the up-to-date, reality, without regard to the actual state of the citizens and their concern, particularly those issues. At the moment, these questions are important and these questions should have been raised more intensively. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If hundreds of thousands of healthy animals are killed, just because this may mean a discharge for the market, then that is not a future solution. Non-artifacturous mass animal husbandry has been and will, Mr Kukacka, be enabled by a promotion policy such as export refunds to favour abuse up to mafia methods. Such a thing needs to be stopped, because then we have an alternative, then what happened here cannot be repeated. I think so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Many traders use the intervention mechanism as a normal market, for example, although it has been developed as a safety network. That is why we have to understand clearly and clearly that a comprehensive reform of the common agricultural policy is necessary. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are many proposals on the part of the Freeman, Mr Kukacka, such as the conversion of land and livestock to a farm for work. That would be a sensible story. It is an alternative, Mr Kukacka, to install an EU-wide attitude system. And I could present many more proposals from my colleague Achatz here. The fact is that it is high time that a departure from this wrong course takes place. The rule of unbridled free trade has put us in a lot of trouble and can no longer be the most essential basis of EU policy because it leads to a dead end, ladies and gentlemen. However, there is a need for action not only in the common agricultural policy, but also in other Community policies, as the EU Council in Nice also noted and took note of through the Austrian initiative. A comprehensive distribution of competence will not only have to be considered, Mr Bundeskanzler, but we will tackle this question offensively and at last have to live up to the concept of "subsidiarity" – according to the principle that decision-making competence, ladies and gentlemen, should be where it can be located next to the citizen. [[Complaints with the liberals]] There are many possibilities, you just have to recognize them and then implement them. Federal Chancellor! We need a clear definition of how to deal with different tasks. We would like to say: Of course, there are many Community tasks, such as foreign and security policy, economic and monetary policy. There would also be a need for a common environmental policy. However, much – and this also needs to be clear – should remain in the regulatory area of the Member States or be returned to the national level if we realize that things are better removed there than at European level. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I say it in full consciousness, Federal Chancellor: If, for example, reforms in the field of the common agricultural policy are not possible, because other countries have different ideas of a agricultural policy than we do, then there must also be a renationalisation in the considerations. I'm absolutely convinced of that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, it is also about future financing. It was Mr Schwarzböck who said that we had already penetrated the ceiling for the financing of this agricultural policy. It cannot be that a missing agricultural policy at European level leads to further financial burdens on citizens. We don't want that, and that can't be it. That is why we must also have a place in the European reflections. However, funding is also an essential issue for a very large European Union project, and we need to talk about it now. Financing is the central issue in the face of the greatest challenge in the coming years, namely in the area of Easter enlargement. If one says that before the next elections there should be the first accessions, one should also have clarity about financing. Each Austrian needs to know what the Easter enlargement causes to him in addition to costs and how these costs affect every Austrian, for every Austrian. That is a question that needs to be answered. It's close to the citizens. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are committed to enlargement by the FPÖ – and I should like to underline this – but we will be very careful to ensure that all that is set out in the Government Convention is respected, in the interests of the Austrians and the Austrians, in the interests of the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Our task must be to ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that this enlargement is carefully and thoroughly prepared. It can't be that Sweden says: We've done the three big "E's": enlargement, the environment – in English – and the jobs. And then there is to enlargement only the statement: It must come quickly – without appropriate preparations. That is not how it can be done, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we will have to pay particular attention to the fact that this enlargement is going to be compatible with the citizen – as is laid down in the Government Convention. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Together with the Germans, we have the longest common border with the candidate countries. We have – and this has also been stated in a letter from the Foreign Office to the Council – so that many problems that other members of the European Union will never have, because they simply do not have this common border. In the field of the labour market, freedom of movement, in the field of services, we have to pay attention to things other than to Ireland, than to England or Portugal. That is why it is legitimate for us to be here and call for transitional periods. It is about preparing our people for this enlargement so that it can also be achieved by the labour market that the service sector can handle this enlargement. Transitional periods cannot simply be set by saying: Seven years, and then it has itself!, but within this time there must also be a development. It must be determined how this development is to be seen, Federal Chancellor, it will be to be taken into account whether, within this time, development in the candidate countries has progressed so far that enlargement does not cause too great problems for the Austrians. I believe that it is necessary to define clearly what standard must be achieved in the applicant countries within these transitional periods, that enlargement can also be made Austrian and Austrian compatible. Federal Chancellor! That is why I would like to stress once again: It will be important for us to define our conditions relatively quickly, under which we can fully agree to enlargement of the European Union in the interests of Austrian citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2757	The next honourable Member, Mr Mag, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Lunacek. Time left: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2778	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, you have spoken about the construction in the EU of, as it were, a first floor to be built on. This requires internal cohesion, which has already been addressed by my colleague, Mr Lichtenberger. I would like to refer to what such a building also needs, namely good relations with its neighbours, to the closer and the wider environment. This is not to be ruled out. Let me start with the wider environment. You said: A well-founded foreign policy debate has taken place in Stockholm. It is true that it was spoken to Macedonia, to Russia. But where did the great proposals for peace policy in Austria remain, for example, Macedonia? – The only thing we have ever heard is to expand the KFOR mandate, instead of considering, for example, using an EU Special Representative who works there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] That's not what came from you. There came only – as was the last time in the committee – that the demands of Albanians are legitimate; also those of nation-building. EU Commissioner Petritsch, a very recognized Austrian South-East expert, believes that this is not necessarily the right way. I have therefore missed Austria's proposals for peace policy. Now to the nearer environment, to the attempt of the Foreign Minister to establish a strategic partnership with the candidate countries. At the same time, you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, are proud of the fact that you, together with the German Chancellor Schröder, have enforced that free movement is fixed for seven years – five years, and then for those who want more, that is, Austria and Germany, there will be seven years. There is no more talk about the four years that the Commission has recently proposed. No more talk is that flexibility may also be made bilaterally. - No! EU countries must vote unanimously again if this is to be less. Federal Chancellor! That is why the actions of this Federal Government in rhetoric are contrary, and the candidate countries will not thank you for that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Spindelegger and Mr Schweitzer, too, believe that the Austrians must be looked at in order to make this more open to citizens. – Mr Bundeskanzler! I have the impression that you are trying to make Europe's policy liberal and compatible. What you are doing is: They give in to the pressure of the liberals. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] – You, not Mr Gerhard Schröder. What you have done in recent years has been to give in to the pressure of the liberals. It is the liberals who want a longer period of time to free movement, not your ÖVP and not the enlargement commissioner Busek. He's very different. Is he now? Your enlargement officer, or isn't he? [[New interim remark by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler said last week that Mr. Busek should not go to Paris on behalf of the government. He is not the government representative of the Federal Government. At the time, however, he was very unanimously recognized by the Council of Ministers as such. Is it him now, or isn't he? Listen to what enlargement Commissioner Busek says, namely that the free movement of persons should be there as soon as possible, that it must be handled very flexibly, or just listen to the calls of the liberals, who are called there – Mr Schweitzer has just said it –: [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Is Schröder a liberal?]] A renationalisation must have place in the considerations! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What does it mean?]] Federal Chancellor! I note with you an internal-politically motivated lack of courage – and not that for which the EIA has stood, namely, a courageous European policy that has tried and managed to bring Austria to the European Union. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I don't hear that from you here anymore. They only talk more about what we need to do to give Austrian workers safety and protection. In a strategic partnership, you should also pay attention to what your partner Juncker from Luxembourg said: There are also interests and fears among citizens in the candidate countries. If Austria should be a pioneer for enlargement, then it would be a task – your mission, too, Mr. Bundeskanzler! – to work to reduce borders as quickly as possible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What I find here is: You lack the courage to contribute to reducing borders not only at state borders but also in our heads. You can't be proud of that!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2878	The following honourable Member, Dr. Stummful, has been mentioned as his speech. Time remaining: 7.5 minutes. I'll set the clock to just eight minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2899	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! When assessing the outcome of the Stockholm European Council, there are two methods of assessment. Stockholm can be assessed on the basis of the question: Was Stockholm a large, small, medium-sized progress in the context of European integration? – Most of the previous speakers have done so. The results of the Stockholm European Council and the debates there can also be assessed by category: What has Stockholm shown as regards our position in the context of European development, ladies and gentlemen? – I want to do that. Before that, I would like to refer briefly to colleagues. In your speech, my colleague, I made an interlocutory call, which reads: Which country are you talking about? – You didn’t hear this call, but my clubman, sitting in front of me, heard it and answered it precisely: Obviously in "Absurdistan". – If you have heard your speech, you have to say: If one considers Stockholm as where we are located, where Austria is in the context of European development, then as a parliamentarian of this House, whether in the government or in opposition, one should be so confident – I would almost say: so proud – to say: Austria is on the right course, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are on the right track, and we have a model function in Europe in important areas of issues – whether youth employment, child money, work and family compatibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] We should be so confident, Mrs. Colleague! That should also be you as an opposition politician. Our country is under this federal government, which has begun to reform the country and lead it to Europe, in the right course. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] First of all, we are on the right track in budgetary policy. Europe today says: Spectacular improvement of budgetary policy under this government, under this Minister of Finance. – Ladies and gentlemen! We should also register this: spectacular improvement of budget policy, budgetary policy as a future design and not as a debt policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Second example: We are on the right track in the field of labour market policy. Look at the results! There is a headline of the results of Stockholm: On the way to full employment. - Please, we have full employment. We have full employment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Swimmlein: Then you come to me in the district!]] Today we have the problem – but tomorrow we will talk about it in the "Economics and Work" chapter – that our economy does not get any labour, ladies and gentlemen. That's our central problem! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Europe envys us about the least youth unemployment. Europe envys us that the number of long-term unemployed has fallen by 40 percent last year. A model for Europe, ladies and gentlemen. Third example: We are on the right track on the question of our social system. You heard: We take correct, gentle steps to increase the retirement age, not abrupt increase. We're right on this road. 1 disability billions – a right path in the context of the integration of the European social system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Fourth example: We are on the right track in the area of family policy. Again: Our children's money is a model function for Europe – actually, the world's model function. Be so brave to admit, even if you are in opposition, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Fifthly, we are on the right path as far as the liberalisation policy of this federal government is concerned. No question at all: Austria has also been an attractive economic location in many areas in recent years. But many companies that make an international ranking have complained for years that telecommunications and electricity costs are so high in Austria. With its liberalisation policy, this government has addressed precisely these two weaknesses: Lower telecommunications and electricity and energy costs. This is a real way in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Sixth example: We are on the right path in the integration of financial markets. First example: The capital market offensive, which we have already decided, is a contribution to an offensive policy within the framework of this financial market policy. Second example: We are currently discussing with all the political groups in this House – I thank the Minister for Finance – in an extremely correct and serious manner, with professional, scientific support, the question of reforming banking supervision. There too we are right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] All four political groups will soon be discussing a draft assessment of a reform of banking supervision in the direction of pan-financial supervision in the Ministry of Finance, and we will decide this next year. This is also an important example of our being on the right track with this policy of our federal government, ladies and gentlemen. I am therefore saying this because I am one of those – I will do that again tomorrow, when it comes to Austria’s economic location – who does not see everything through the pink glasses. I know exactly where the weaknesses in Austria's economic location are. But so self-confident, so honest and so objective one should be aware that we are on the right track in these important areas of politics, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e2999	The next Mr Dr. Niederwieser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Time remaining: 2.5 minutes. So I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3020	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! My colleague stupidly said you were on the right track. [[Abg. Steibl: Good speech! Yes, I do!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – That after last Sunday you can still be so convinced to be on the right path, this already includes a large portion of refusal of reality, belongs to a large portion of disregard for election statements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But that's what you've seen on Sunday night. You mean to do everything right, only the voters see that wrong in your opinion. If you think that's a right way, then stay. You're on this road, we can only be right, my colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: Gusenbauer is not Häupl! Gusenbauer's not a chief!]] However, we are not quite right, and we cannot therefore be right because the sufferers of this path are the Austrians. I want to show this by an example, and there are many examples of this. Federal Chancellor! The delays in flight in Stockholm were obviously very important to them. You have told us here that this is a problem that employs everyone so powerfully. Federal Chancellor! What employs us in Austria and especially in Tyrol is the question: What have you done in Stockholm about the continuation of our transit contract? – This is a central European issue of transport policy, namely the impact of the Alpine region on many citizens. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The climate and one have murked!]] This was an excellent transit contract, as you yourself know, which was negotiated under climate and one that was implemented under one. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why he doesn't keep either!]] – They let him go out and don’t even address this issue. That's where you failed, Federal Chancellor! These would have been the problems that you in Stockholm should have had to make clear what is to be done in the interests of Austria. You should have reported on this rather than just explaining the world and Europe to us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you think you have to go here now and this project of child money – that's not even there yet, and you are still arguing in a great deal about details that are interesting but not new – which is not even real to sell in Europe or even worldwide, my colleague, I tell you, stupid: [[Call the ÖVP:There is a project!]] First, make it so that the Constitutional Court will also be in order so that you do not land on the belly again! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You'll be too quick!]] Only then do you go to Europe and tell us what you have done, but don't talk about projects and unlaid eggs!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3140	I call for the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3156	What we would expect, Mr Bundeskanzler, is that you will report to the Austrian Parliament in the future what you have done in the interest of our citizens at the European Summit.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3186	I hereby declare the debate on the German Chancellor's statement closed. Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 1762/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3207	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, according to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, I have a short debate on the reply to Question No 1762/AB on Question No 1742/J by Mr Glawischnig on the outcome of the Melker Agreements between the Governments of the Czech Republic and Austria on the Temelin power plant by Mr Bundeskanzler. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3229	In addition, I would like to have a short debate on the request made by Dr. Pumberger, Dr. Leiner, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the request for a Federal Act amending the ASVG, GSVG, B-SVG and B-KUV. This is the first time we've seen it in the European Union. The two desires are accompanied by a short debate. The debate on the response to the question and the immediate follow-up to it will take place at 3 p.m. on the request for a deadline. Debates of the European Parliament Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (500 and 500 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2002 and Investments (540 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3256	We're going into the agenda now. We will hold the debate in accordance with our practice in such a way that general statements relating to the Advisory Group II, which are actually part of a general debate, are permitted. It also intends to negotiate the Advisory Groups I and II, including this general debate. In any event, the corresponding budget chapter will be discussed at the end of the negotiation of the Federal Estimate on the same day. The planned breakdown of the debate and the vote within the meaning of § 73 para. 2 GOG can be found in a work plan issued in writing. I ask the House whether objections are raised against these divisions or against the joint negotiation of advisory groups I and II? – This is not the case, so I will do so. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3290	In addition, consensus was reached at the Presidential Conference on the design and duration of today's debate as follows: A day block time of 9 "Vienna hours" is provided for, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 176 minutes, Freedom and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green 104 minutes. The speaking time of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 20 minutes, or the speaking time of the Secretary of State responsible for the Advisory Group, which exceeds 10 minutes, will be taken into account at the time of the respective government group. Furthermore, the speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries will be counted from the outset on the speaking time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the speaking time of Mrs Vice-Chancellor in the debate held among the Advisory Groups I and II is provided that this speaking time does not exceed 10 minutes. That is the proposal which I am submitting to the House, and I ask because the House has to find out whether there are objections to it. – This is not the case, then this proposal is adopted in this way. Advisory Group I Chapter 01: Presidential Chancellery Chapter 02: Federal legislation Chapter 03: Constitutional Court Chapter 04: Administrative Court Chapter 05: Public Prosecutor's Office Chapter 06: Court of Auditors Advisory Group II Chapter 10: Federal Chancellery with services Chapter 13: Arts
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3385	We come to the joint negotiation of Advisory Groups I and II. To request oral reporting: Mr Donabauer wishes no reporting, Mr Feurstein does not wish to report either. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3415	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This morning, some cabaretist trains took on. [[Call the ÖVP:First now! Only now!]] This could be seen by listening to Mr. Stumpfully, who talked about the government doing everything right. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Not everything!]] Everyone has asked himself the question of what government Mr Stumpfully is talking about when he mentioned as his first example that this government has led Austria to Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I didn't say that! You didn't watch!]] Mr. Stumbling! Obviously you have been sleeping for the last two years, you have to say that clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Highly interesting were also the very controversial comments between Mr Schweitzer and Mr Bundeskanzler. While the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has sung a song on liberalisation and pointed out the glorious effects of it in the future, Mr Schweitzer was shortly afterward excited about the speaker's seat and said that free trade had to be restricted, that agricultural policy had to be renationalized, that the level of European integration had to be reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This government is deeply divided in a fundamental future issue of our country and does not have a uniform view on this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, Mr President, if you are of the opinion and have now recognized that you are now talking about another government and not the one you have been talking about for years, I should be pleased about it. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You didn't watch! You slept!]] – The word choice you used has not changed over the past 15 years: No matter what happens, Mr. stupid always tells us the same thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But if you think everything was so wonderful and right, I would recommend the reading of today's daily newspapers. Then you will see that the member of your coalition committee, the head of the Kärntner state and the old party of FPÖ, is dealing with government policy. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Cast builder on Haider course!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] – I can only say: Obviously, it is not the opinion that everything was right when he said that the government policy was to blame for the FPÖ situation, the Federal Government was driving politics without a heart, and he said – I quote literally – that it was not possible to make a policy with careless ads and posters, that it was necessary to explain politics to the citizens. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Gusenbauer represents Haider-Meinung!]] We are excited how the "glory" simmering election loser, Mr. Westenthaler, will either beat up the stupid or the Haider Group in the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: This is the biggest son Simmerings!]] Today, the 2002 budget is for discussion, and the Minister of Finance has not left the course with the 2000 and 2001 budgets. [[Abg. May. Posch: And the Minister of Finance is already quite pale!]] The question is: What are the effects of the budget policy, which the Minister of Finance recommends to the Austrians? In the light of the need for any budgetary policy to increase social wealth – in the general state and for each individual – we only need to look at the balance sheet: The growth curve is about to break into Austria not only in Europe but also much more. This is not an expression of a good budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The consequence for each individual is also clear: Despite high growth rates in the past year, despite good wage closures of the trade unions, the average Austrian worker remains a thick, fat zero as a wage for his hard work and for his great labor this year. In fact, it remains in the pockets of the Austrians of the total increase in productivity, of all the increases in wages, because everything goes into the pockets of the Minister of Finance and nothing remains for the workers. This is not a good policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Minister of Finance has made a number of constraints in his budgets, but to an even greater extent has put it on an increase in revenue. If you take a closer look at the limitations – Mr. Collegue stupidly, with the reading of the paper you will notice – then you can say: [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: (from the newspaper looking up) I'm listening to you!]] The Minister of Finance has told us at his first budget that it is possible to abolish the investment exemption because there are so many take-over effects anyway and that will therefore have no effect on investment. – What does it really look like? – Investments will, unfortunately, be reduced this year as a result of the abolition of the investment exemption. This is neither a good investment in the Austrian economy nor a good investment in Austrian jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, of course, the majority of the Minister of Finance is getting over revenue. Between 1999 and 2002, revenue from taxes and taxes will increase by 111 billion schilling. A Minister of Finance who has taken up the announcement: Expenses are being reorganised!, in reality owes the highest tax and tax rate in Austria throughout history. That is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That's wrong! That's wrong again! That's absolute nonsense!]] [[Abg. May. Posch: He has to correct the bowl-ditz course!]] But it is known how Mr Stumbling and others are trying to speak up again and again on this budget programme. The truth is: If this government is talking about reforms, people must be afraid that something will be taken away from them. If this government is talking about social security, it means to the sick, to the invalids, to the accident pensioners, to the pensioners, to the unemployed or to the students that they are removed. If this government is talking about a stopover, citizens must expect new burdens to come on them. And if this government is talking about spending-side budget renewal, that means that it is making revenue-side budget recovery. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an honest policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, all these deception maneuvers are no longer available through hundreds of millions of schilling expensive ads and advertising campaigns, to which your old-party man has already spoken indiscriminately. The Austrian population sees clearly what the course of this government is, what it means for each individual, and recognizes more and more people, Mr. stupid: It's the wrong way for Austria's future that you're going here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They spoke of the great praise of the European Union for budgetary consolidation. Mr. Stumbling! I recommend to you the relevant reading of the opinion of the European Commission and the ECOFIN Council, and you will find out what you have not yet identified on the basis of selective perception, which there is also a problem: that budgetary consolidation is essentially based on one-off effects, in addition to strong revenue increases, and that this budget consolidation is not sustainable. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Will we see!]] What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? – If fiscal consolidation is not sustainable, there may be a zero deficit in 2002, but a zero deficit that is your top goal to have even in 2003, it is expected that if this is to be made sustainable, the Austrian taxpayers will once again have their pockets in their pockets. This will be the consequence of the policy that has been reduced to one-off effects for the Austrians! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Gusenbauer as a fortune teller!]] It also raises the question of any budgetary policy: What services are actually provided? The Austrians pay taxes and taxes, and the question arises: What does the State offer for these taxes and charges? – The most important thing that a state that thinks and acts forward-looking is the expansion of public infrastructure so that economic growth can be sustained. Furthermore, it must offer investment in science and research in order to keep up in the future, and it must provide decisive investment in the education and training of the Austrian population. – In all these three areas, the Austrian Federal Government limits expenditure instead of increasing it. This budget is at the expense of the future of our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In fact, it is only a shift in the deficit: The Minister of Finance shifts his budget deficit into citizens' money exchanges, he shifts his deficit into a deficit of state services for the citizens, he shifts his deficit towards a deficit in social justice and confidence, he shifts his deficit towards a deficit in honesty and dialogue, he shifts his deficit towards a deficit for Austria's future. This deficit shift is not a good financial and budgetary policy. This is the wrong way for our country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With great interest, the Austrians are waiting for the government to finally come and explain to us how the sentence "saving itself" will be translated into reality, because this sentence continues to be fulfilled. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: (in the direction of ÖVP and the Freedom) Tags!]] So far, there are only tags and announcements. What about the negotiations between Mrs Vice-Chancellor and the Heads of State for an administrative reform? How does it look with expenditure in the cabinets of the ministries, where senior employees are paid six-digit monthly payments? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Edlinger Cabinet!]] What does it look like, Mr. Westenthaler, with the expenses for the ads that your old party man calls "insanity"? Where is the government itself saved? - Not at all! They only get into the pockets of Austrian citizens! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about your party cash?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Husch-Pfusch policy has obviously been done. After Mr. Khol, the word designer of the "speed kill", has now come upon it that "speed kills" essentially means: Shot in your own knee – and with this shot in your own knee the government coalition has had to live since last Sunday – is now obviously being changed. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You're looking forward to early!]] Mrs. Vice-Chancellor told us: Not so many reforms, not so quickly the reforms, but better prepare everything. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Practice humility, Mr. Gusenbauer! Humility!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! You might have been cheaper. We've advised you from the beginning, but you haven't listened to us, and that's your problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's easy as always, Mr. Khol: Whoever comes too late punishes life. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The story!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not even the quote you can correct...!]] But, Mr Khol, who makes a non-social policy, who makes a policy at the expense of the future of our country, who makes a policy at the expense of education and research, punishes the voters in a democracy. [[Lively applause at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The budgetary policy of this Minister of Finance will in just a few days lead to a reduction in the forecasts for economic growth. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It will lead to a fall in investment in this country, and it will ultimately reduce the public services that we urgently need for the future. This budget is not an expression of a imaginative, forward-looking social and economic policy. This budget is based solely on a zero deficit. That is the ideology of this government, and it will not bring our country forward, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3883	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Khol. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e3903	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Günter Stumvoll has meant that Caspar One seems to live in "Absurdistan". – I have to say: He's not alone there, too, Mr. Gusenbauer lives there. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] But I need to note some positive effects. At the last budgetary speech, Mr Gusenbauer, with the breastplate, stated that we would not achieve a consolidated budget with a zero deficit without new debt and full employment. Today he has already revised his prophecy. At least he has acknowledged that we are doing this for 2003, and has called into question sustainability. Dear Mr Gusenbauer! Their prophecies are always valid for a short time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Once again, I have to note that your emptiness is threatening. You did not make a single proposal as you would be doing in Austria's budget policy. [[Abg. Böhacker: Thank God he didn't do that!]] The only thing that saved you: What Günter stupidly said, that provoked you, stimulated you. You've lived in the first five minutes, and the next five minutes you've lived by the Kärntner state captain. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] - We'll do it to him. If you need it more often to support your arguments, he will provide you with more arguments, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] It should not be hidden from you either, because the long-term effects – in the public service less than 11,000 posts, the need for subsidies in pensions, the contribution of the local authorities – must also be recognized. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The higher taxes!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: The constantly higher taxes!]] You meant they were all just one-time effects. [[Abg. May. Posch: That was the bowl-ditz course! The heritage of the bowl-ditz course!]] Of the 100 billion we have to contribute from the debt made here, 68 percent are covered by permanent effects and 32 percent is covered by one-off effects. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: The heritage of the bowl-ditz course! Who was the Minister of Economic Affairs? Who was Minister of Finance?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why is Mr Posch in the first row today?]] Mr Posch! With you from SPÖ, we have tried four times to clean up the budget. Four times! There was also the bowl-dez-course. There was Alois Mock, too. At the time, there was also a climate of finance. We have tried it again in the 1999 Government Negotiation, but your party-chairing climate has failed with the trade unionists. That is why we now have a new rehabilitation course – and we will not fail. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I do not want to deal exclusively with you – that would be too little substance for me, since I would not be able to talk to you – but I would like to deal with the budget of 2003. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's gonna be exciting now! That with 2003 is exciting!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] In paraphrasing what our successful finance minister said during the last two budget debates, I would like to say: A future debate for Austria begins with a budget in Euro. Today we have a budget in front of us that meets the criteria of the Lisbon process, which, as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has presented – and I think he has done – is fully embedded in European economic dynamics. Full employment without new indebtedness – this is our goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will take 57.5 billion j next year and spend 58.3 billion j. 0.8 billion ye will be a mathematical deficit offset by the surplus of the countries and the municipalities. These too are permanent structural effects, Mr Gusenbauer. I would like to congratulate the government on having succeeded in achieving a financial balance with the countries and with the communities during a savings course, a financial compensation that will bring us forward. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Gusenbauer! Of course, it is also an temptation for us to make a policy with only hearts, so to spend and spend. Konrad Adenauer has always said: That's what the Sozis can do. - That's what Adenauer said. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] They spend money previously taken by the taxpayer. That was Bruno Kreisky's policy. Stephan Koren left him a full trust, like Duke Friedl at the time with the empty bag, after the break that cost us the majority. Bruno Kreisky has built a "golden roof" like Sigismund the coin kingdom, and we still pay for it today. - Yes, the socios can spend. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But not only do we have a heart, but we also have a brain – because we have a sense of responsibility. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Call:Where]] Today's debt is tomorrow's taxes! We know what yesterday's debts mean for us. We pay for the debts Bruno Kreisky and Hannes Androsch made today with effort and with hangings and worms. 100 billion of interest and debt repayments – this is half of the annual income from wage taxes and income taxes in the whole Republic. So every second schilling of what is paid for in wage and income tax goes up for the repayment of debts. In order for our young people to receive a pension, we must not make new debts today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In order to secure the pensions of our older people, we must not make new debts today. If we want to get full employment, we must not strangle our economy with new taxes. This is why debt policy is absolutely non-social. Now it's over! I hope we can stick to this course and keep it up. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer, I think you should see the following: For research and education, we spend as much as never before in the history of the Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Take a look at the budget!]] Investment in research and education is the future investment for our young people. Research and education secure work in this country. That is why we are spending a lot on these areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We also spend a lot on our infrastructure, but in all ministries we find in the takeover balance Promises from ancient times in which generously, without setting priorities, were promised everything and everyone. We now have to order, we have to set priorities, and we have to make economics. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Have you slept for the last 15 years, Mr. Khol? Have you been sleeping deep for the last 15 years?]] And that this government can operate is a happiness for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the budget decision next week after 14 months, we have achieved an important goal of our path: We have dealt with the reform in the financial world with three budgets and the financial balance. We have halved the debt of the ÖIAG, we have rehabilitated the ASFINAG. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Speak bubbles!]] – Mr Wittmann! "Blows of speech" do you say? What were you, Mr Wittmann? [[Lively cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] If I repeat the nickname we gave you in the coalition, I'll get an order call. It's not worth it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have launched the most important reforms in the public service, and we have implemented a pension reform to ensure pensions for our older fellow citizens. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Speak bubbles!]] For each letter in the alphabet, from A to Z, we have implemented a reform: from A – like: Workers and employees are equated – until Z – civil service is re-ordered – for every letter in the alphabet! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You won't be better!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the reform is to achieve this objective in the financial field. We have major structural reforms, important structural reforms in front of us, where we have already set the objectives, such as for children's money, for the ORF, for the objective of post-contracting, for the AMS, for the reorganisation of the labour market administration. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Speak of civil servants! You're so far away from practice!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You won't be better! These are speech bubbles!]] There is an overall reform in the field of the university ahead of us, we need to reorganise the health insurance funds. These are the most important reforms for the Republic. We'll prepare her carefully. [[Abg. Silhavy: You can see that anyway! As with the ambulance charges!]] The term pressure of financial nature has become smaller. But the reform is just as urgent and this House will still be using it very much. Ladies and gentlemen! The administrative reform is certainly at the heart of our government, and we are going to be measured by the success of the administrative reform. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Only announcements, no result! For two years only announcements!]] And here I tell you: We will only bring about a reform of the administration if we deal with this in widest agreement with the local authorities if we punish the administration together with the federal, state and local authorities. We have already achieved very important intermediate goals: I am thinking of the procurement agency, of the law on the objectivity of post-contracting, of the BIG, that is, the central Federal Building Administration, which was distributed. Yesterday we passed a law on the decentralisation of the issue of passports. We have started a number of structural reforms in the field of public services. We must continue along this path of reducing unnecessary state responsibilities, and job reform is a courageous thing. All cheer theoretically, but everyone wants to have his own law, each professional group wants to have its own law, and if there are only 38 representatives. We did it before. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: A few examples of this unnecessary expenditure!]] It is unnecessary, for example, that there be complaints in large areas of financial management and in large areas of rural administration. For example, there are about 1 300 complaints per year against valid decisions by the administrative authorities in case of redundancies and similar matters. In these cases, it would certainly be useful to employ even the independent administrative Senate or the administrative court. That would save time and money. For example, Mr Niederwieser, do you know that a state official in Tyrol, who has to grant an exemption if a gearbox is installed in a small vehicle of a disabled person, which the disabled can switch by hand, has to create an act, send it to the Ministry of Transport to Vienna and apply for the exemption permit there? From there the administrative act is "let down" to Tyrol. In individual cases, the body is authorised to grant the derogation, and only then can the disabled be granted the derogation. – Degrading such things from the time of Metternich is administrative reform! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Without centralism, in cooperation with the countries, in cooperation with the communities, but quickly and in the interests of the citizen! We will have to make great efforts to continue to implement this 2003 budget, to ensure that it is sustainable. I myself was a clubman in governments where we also made such efforts. Hardly had we decided on a budget, the song "Happy days are here again" was sung and strongly released again. That can't be! We now, when we have decided on this budget, have consolidated the finances. But budget policy with heart and brain also means responsibility for the next generations!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4340	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. The clock is set at 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4361	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Appreciate members of the People's Procuratorate! High house! One month ago, Minister of Finance, you told us in the budget speech: "I have a dream." You had a dream that you connected with a budget deficit that you dissolved into a zero deficit, combined with a dream of an Austria that is different from the previous Austria. Mr Finanzminister! The weeks after your budget speech, after you had explicated your dream, were a nightmare. These weeks after your budget speech, a nightmare, filled with anti-Semitic speeches, with exclusion, with strict instructions from a party to a poster company, were in a campaign to place foreigners besides crime. It's out of your dream: a nightmare! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A nightmare that, ladies and gentlemen, has resolved something in the short term – thank God – about the election outcome of last Sunday, there would not be the new dreams, perhaps also triggered by your ex-party husband. Maybe this has caused something to happen with you, too. He says that in the government there is only more technocracy. I think there's going to be I guess you've been talking to me. The nightmare would also have disintegrated, but there would not have been the statements of a vice chancellor who says that in recent months the chaos in the Federal Government has sometimes been disastrous. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Khol, you are talking about something else. I am now speaking of the Vice-Cancellor's statements. She is not sitting here now, but her comments, namely the chaos, the disastrous effects, the disastrous picture that this German government has offered to the Austrians, Mr Westenthal, in the eyes of the vice chancellor and in the eyes of the "simple party member", speak for itself. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance had a dream, a dream he founded with Martin Luther King. The dream of Martin Luther King, Minister of Finance, that was another dream. This was a dream of a human being in a society that was – and still is – influenced by racism and exclusion. And this Martin Luther King has gone to the federal capital and has said that he wants to redeem a check – perhaps that in the picture that connects you to Martin Luther King – from this government, from this society. He wanted to redeem human rights, he wanted to fight against exclusion. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It would be good for you and the Federal Government not only to talk about a zero deficit, but also to say that human rights apply to all in this country, regardless of whether foreigners or foreigners! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It would be good for this Federal Government and the Chancellor to not only hide himself when someone brings anti-Semitic hetzparols into the country, but to say clearly that this music does not play in this country! [[New appeal to the Greens and SPÖs.]] You can still talk so much about a zero deficit and your dream – if the zero deficit you want, ladies and gentlemen, is connected with and accompanied by exclusion from education, lack of ideas about a future in which all – I emphasize: all! – having a right to enforce their rights in this society is bad. Only if you share this idea of a society with the same rights for all, regardless of the colour of the skin, no matter what religious confession, whether foreigners or foreigners, you may quote Martin Luther King again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's zero deficit is also connected – and that's the problem – to the missing infrastructure of tomorrow. Yes, we draw a balance after these months of a black-blue, blue-black federal government. What have we got from you so far? What did we get? – Laws that the Constitutional Court rightly rejects us. In many areas we have received higher threats of punishment and a reduction in the age limits, we have received from you a top coward that you want to cover up again. We have received the announcement from you in these months: Get in the NATO as soon as anyone's ready. We have received a relatively clear commitment from you that education and research are not worth much in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! If today's zero deficit is linked to the missing infrastructure of tomorrow, this reminds me not only of the USA because of Martin Luther King's speech, but also because there are the most drastic parallels to your policy: the missing infrastructure from tomorrow. Yes, it was the father of the current U.S. President, who with his "Read my lips!" on taxes, on which tax increases have made a false promise. Yes, it was these years of a republican government in the United States, which has begun with the stated aim of reducing the taxes of the rich, to relieve the rich: this reminds us of your policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That actually reminds us of your policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] If you look in the USA at how not only a system of education has been led into the sand, but also how an infrastructure has been put into the sand there, how the roads are devased, how the traffic system has been devased there – but one still works there: these are the prisons that have been expanded – then this reminds us of the debates of the last days that we have held here in this house. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Jobs were created!]] If this is your dream of a better society, namely that you increase the penalty that you lower the age limits for young people, then it has a lot in common with what is listed in real-life politics in the USA. But I would remind you, Minister of Finance: In the United States, unlike Austria, the billionaires obviously still have so much social conscience that they have demanded from the new Bush government not to reduce taxes. You said: We do not agree, Mr Bush, that you want to reduce taxes for us billionaires. We want to pay taxes because we want a country where it is worth living in which social integration exists and not social exclusion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would have liked a statement from this government on the occasion of the budget, in which one is not only proud of the fact that one creates a zero, but in which one proudly states that this country is also proud of its human rights, can also be proud of its social rights and is also proud that there is a good future for its young people in the education system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's exactly what we do!]] What are you doing, ladies and gentlemen? - You're setting up a school order again. They want to discipline the students again, raise the maximum number of students and disassembly the accompanying teachers. This is the music it plays with you, and we oppose it quite clearly: We want an education system that offers all people opportunities for their realization. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How do you deal with drugs?]] We want an education system that gives all people, no matter what needs, this opportunity, and we want society, the state, the federal government, Mr. Khol, to create these opportunities for the citizens. We do not want a two- or three-member school and education system that will produce the new assistant worker of tomorrow, because the teachers in the classes do not have enough time to deal with each student and each student individually. That's not our idea, Mr. Khol! I say this quite consciously because I have benefited from these possibilities of the Austrian education system as a child of a worker. I know, Mr. Khol, what I'm talking about. I really know. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I know that too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's also come to the hard facts of this budget: The topic of children's money. Mr Finanzminister! As far as I know, in these days you are negotiating with Mr Bartenstein and with the Minister for Social Affairs on the financial aspects of child benefits. Mr Finanzminister! Not only would I be interested in what child money looks like today, but I would be interested in your side if you were already talking about your dreams of what the child's money looks like tomorrow. How does it look in the 2004 budget? – Now Mr. Khol is gone. Let us not only speak of the year 2003, but let us also speak of the year 2004! We may also be speaking from 2020! Thank you, Mr. Khol, you came back. Let us speak from 2020, but first of all from 2004! You know as well as I do, Minister of Finance, that the promises made by Mr Bartenstein and by the Minister of Social Affairs in connection with child benefits will only last until 2003. If you are just about thinking about financing pension insurance for replacement periods too, there is a deficit in the family compensation fund in 2004. But that's after the election year. In 2003 you can still spend, as you can also spend 100 S on family allowances. [[Abg. Edlinger: Free to Adenauer!]] And in 2004, Mr. Westenthaler, what is then? – Then you will stand up and probably want to talk about it, that the past government, probably still the black and red government of 1999, bears responsibility for You could not live up to what you promised in 2002/2003 to people with child benefits, with the increase of family allowances. And in 2020, if those women who have now promised retirement periods will retire, then some federal government will have to stand before the people and say: We promised you the black and blue from heaven 20 years ago, but these pensions are not to be financed. – You know, Minister of Finance, that the 3.9 billion Schillings, which are paid up to a maximum of the Family Allowance Fund for replacement periods and retirement periods – and they are not even safe – have nothing to do with the benefits covered by them. 12 billion schilling – minimum! – costs the replacement periods, the retirement periods, which are made public via the childcare allowance. A maximum of 3 to 4 billion schillings are paid. We will look more closely, Minister of Finance, at how much is actually paid. 12 billion schilling of benefits are due. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: How much is paid today? Say that!]] – I would like to say it, Federal Chancellor. I'll charge you, but it doesn't look cheap for you. Today, 1.2 billion schillings are paid in, and performance is due from 6 to 7 billion schillings. The difference is between 5 and 6 billion. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Eben! Who's responsible for this?]] In the future, 4 billion will be paid, but benefits of 12 billion will be due. That means the difference is 8 billion schilling. Coverage You're 8 billion? [[Abg. May. Trattner: He doesn't understand!]] Where do you cover these 8 billion, Mr. Federal Chancellor? - That's what interests us! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: How many times do you want to explain this to you?]] And we would have liked to know what it would be like in 2004 with the benefits in the family tax compensation fund, but not only there, if you, Mr Westenthaler, would have the courage to say: We were wrong, we can no longer give these achievements for the future – that would interest me. I don't think so. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You will never understand!]] And another one, Mr. Finanzminister – it may sound like a horse: If one speaks of budget figures and of the fact that these budget figures should also have something to do with budgetary truth, then I would expect in future that the figures coming from your ministry, but also from other ministries, such as the employment of temporary workers in ministerial offices, are at least such that the statement in a question response corresponds to the statement in another question answer. But what we had to say was that the figures you printed in the budget to those temporary temporary workers employed in the ministerial offices, no matter what ministry, do not even agree with the statements made by the ministers on the budget committee, do not agree with the statements made in the replies to the requests. There's no number at all! Ladies and gentlemen! If you deal so responsibly with the mandate of the legislator to control the Federal Government that you serve Parliament, the MP simply any house numbers, if you also act so responsibly that in the ministerial offices the number of temporary rental workers exploded, that at times in a ministerial office, such as the Social Ministry, 15 temporary workers in a month, that other people were also employed, that these persons had contracts of over 200 000 S or at least monthly payouts of 200 000 S – you know – that you are not prepared to inform Parliament, then what about your other major announcements regarding your economic wisdoms with or without zero deficit? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Plank.]] We are interested in how you, the Federal Government, like you, the government parties, deal with the people in this country. We are interested in whether there are any statements with which people are heated, whether there are statements with which exclusion is carried out, whether there are statements that will play the future by not investing in education and research, whether there are statements with which the secret march in NATO is spoken, or whether there are statements that are honestly meant and that point to the future. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Integrating in railway tracks!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4626	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Westenthaler. The clock is set to 12 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4648	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! High house! Mr Gusenbauer, you seem to have given us your new passion here today, namely the quotation of Jörg Haider in your favor. I have taken note of this with great amusement and can therefore make a proposal to you right at the beginning. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I'm glad!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: This is more to your disfavor!]] After all, I'll give you later the book by Jörg Haider: "The freedom I mean" and the idea would be to continue quoting today: [[the speaker shall keep the said book up to date]] Maybe you're going to take an Austrian tour under the title "Gusenbauer reads Haider". That would be a very good idea. Perhaps you can learn something and then please people with these quotations accordingly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is a shopkeeper!]] Secondly, It is already – and I am now getting a little more serious – to see and feel a certain new arrogance and arrogance of social democracy. This is also understandable, because after 15 years in which one election defeat followed the other to have won a choice, one can rejoice; I understand that. But it is already a high degree of arrogance and superiority. Mr Gusenbauer! If you compete as a top candidate, you can win or lose. Only you, Mr Gusenbauer, have never been elected as chairman. And I promise you in two and a half years, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Then you are in front of the voters, unless the story of your party overruns you and your party doesn't think of another. But what is to be seen and noticed after this Sunday, also in the presence of Mr Gusenbauer and some of his colleagues, is a certain anatomical change by Mr Gusenbauer and some others, yesterday by Mr Cap and some of his SPÖ politicians. This anatomical change is shown by the fact that the shoulders are a little higher – is okay after this election success – that the chest is a bit wider, the chest is a little bigger – is okay after this election success – and that the attitude is also somewhat more straight – is also okay after this election success. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Uppadded!]] Only, Mr Gusenbauer, what is also striking – probably many voters who voted for the SPÖ on Sunday – is quite different, and the next anatomical change is that the nose is on the ceiling. And you will not do well with the voters, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The electorate does not appreciate this superiority at all. I can only say that you should do what you start with such a result, namely, to exercise a little modesty and humility. After such a result, if you were successful, you should certainly show that and less arrogance. But I'll leave that to you. In the end, you have to deal with your voters. Mr Gusenbauer! What I notice is that you are now taking a third time here – this is the third budget debate in just over a year – and for the third time you are criticizing everything in Bausch and Bow. But, Mr Gusenbauer: Where's your alternative? Where is the alternative concept of SPÖ? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Listen!]] [[Deputies Dr. Khol and Dr. Stummful: He has none!]] Where is your coherent counter-model for state renovation? – I say to you: You simply do not have a counter-model because there is no more sensible and better alternative to the government's current future security project, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Read!]] You don't have one! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You could put it another way. Your party – not yourself – has for years had the opportunity to improve, your finance ministers have had the opportunity to do something for years – Mr. Edlinger before you, for example – to do something to reorganise the state budget. But he didn't. On the contrary! He has chained a tax package in 1996/97 with a dramatic burden on citizens, especially the "small people", with a wage and income tax increase, with a corporate tax increase, capital income tax increase, tobacco tax increase, sales tax increase and, and, and. There was an entire list of dramatic social cuts: Recipe fee increased three times, you have eventually changed the maximum contribution limit on social security, you have introduced an energy levy on electricity and gas, you have reduced the care allowance in duration and amount, as well as the care allowance, the care allowance, the building savings, the general deposits, the deductibility of special expenses, the tax freedom of overtime, the holiday and Christmas money, you have cancelled the birth allowance and the student leave. These were your measures! That would be your alternative concept to the current rehabilitation course. I'll tell you: The current course is much better for me than what you have done here in recent years, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer! You also speak differently here than you do otherwise when it gets tight. The day after the Minister of Finance's budget speech, there was a very interesting appearance by colleagues Gusenbauer in the "Time in Figure 2, which was very interesting. There has been a preliminary contribution, and in the averaging of this contribution, the moderator, Ms. Thurnher – she is unthinkable that she would be a liberal official in the ORF; she belongs somewhere else –, the following – I quote literally from the "ZiB 2" of the 2. March 2001 –: "Yesterday Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser presented his third proposal within just one year; for the first time, there should be no re-indebtedness. Today, the opposition in relation to the budget is now again talking about a record burden. But that doesn't seem to be true among the population." In a report that was proposed, the following was said: "The "Rahlemann" on the government bank – is meant to be Karl-Heinz Grasser; is something beautiful – "but at the moment little resistance from the population is obtained for his saving course. Only five percent, say several surveys, do not like the measures at all, although they get everyone to feel in the money exchange. "The term "zero deficit" is almost exclusively positive," says political scientist Anton Pelita. And Pelinka advises social democracy on this mission in the O-Ton: "Social democracy is certainly well advised, therefore, to mediate rather medium to long-term and also to accept that the government currently has the better cards in budget policy." Thank you, Mr Pelinka, for this honesty. It's true: The government is currently simply having the better cards, because this course is the right one! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Then colleague Gusenbauer sits in the studio and is interviewed. The first question was: "Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, most people find the goal of the zero deficit in order, that is to say several surveys, which apparently means more consent to this goal than you might want to admit. Are you not, therefore, really a little difficult with your criticism of this budget?" Gusenbauer – listen carefully! –: "There's nothing to say about saving, that's all right." – This was said by Mr Gusenbauer in the "Time in Figure 2. Next question by Mrs Thurnher: "That means you agree with the zero deficit rate?" Cast builder: I agree that this is how the budget and the government budget are put in order. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Read exactly!]] – And that would go on right now. I don't want to quote it all, although it's so interesting. You're confessing to that! And today you go out and shoot all the measures by the sun and the moon, although you actually know that there is no alternative and that you have to do the same, namely to clean up the state budget. But they didn't do that for 30 years. That is the truth, and that must be said! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is the first zero deficit for 28 years, the first budget without new debt. With this third budget, we are now at the end of the first phase of this government activity and the clearing up of the debt that you have created, which your finance ministers have left behind. Now, the second phase, namely sustainable rehabilitation, is beginning to implement all of these measures to renovate the state budget: socially just, responsible and in the sense of ensuring the future, namely all generations and not just short-term thought. Perhaps it was also always a mistake of past governments that one had always thought short-term, from choice to choice, and the situation of people has actually worsened even more. You should not think from choice to choice, but from generation to generation. That would be a right policy, Mr Gusenbauer, which one must finally implement. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You have not brought an alternative – I have already said that – I have already quoted the measures you have finally taken. Their path is not an alternative, it would actually be the way directly into the state bankruptcy with a permanent damage to the economic structure in Austria and with massive income losses for all Austrians. And we don't want that! That is why this 2002 budget is also so important, because it means an end to debt, and because in this new budget, which we will decide in the next few days, we will not have any new revenue-based measures, no more burdens, but will be saved exclusively on the expenditure side, in the administrative reform and in the bureaucracy. That is what people will appreciate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This budget is the base for Austria's financial recovery, from which we all have something. Finally, it is also a budget that creates good conditions and produces low unemployment. We currently have the third lowest unemployment rate in Europe, we have the fourth lowest inflation rate and we have very, very good economic data. Last year alone, there were 7.6 billion schilling in new investment volumes, 132 new companies have settled in Austria during the time of this new government. This is something quite decent in itself, and these companies have created 5,000 new jobs. This is something that is very pleasing in this positive financial climate. But the comparison of the current course to your course of 1996/97 can be seen. You have actually taxed 3 million Austrians with your 1996/97 budgets. And if Mr Gusenbauer is speaking today about the burden on workers, I can tell him what the predecessors of the current Minister of Finance – the SPÖ finance ministers Edlinger, climate, and as they all said – have done. They removed 560 S per month from an employee who earned 15 000 S in 1996/1997. – That was your policy! That's not the case now. Now we have 3.5 million payees, of whom 2.6 million are not taxed on the tax side. And that's a decisive thing! In comparison to your budgets, this budget also has a lot to do with purchasing power. In the end, this 2002 budget provides for more purchasing power for all Austrians: for example, in the lower-income third, of which we are so often talking, by 9.2 billion Schilling more purchasing power than in 1999. [[Abg. Oils: The people have to endure this!]] This is a fine success of this budget, and we will implement it, Mr Oellinger, that you will not prevent us from doing so. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We will also point out, with what clear arguments and how much you will bring the people behind the light, for example, on the question of ambulance charges, which we will also advise. They are constantly claiming something that is not true. Yesterday, for example, Mr Kostelka said at once: The apprentices have to pay an ambulance fee! – He simply claims that. An untruth that has been completely taken out of the air! You know very well that, on the basis of their low income, the apprentices can, of course, apply for a prescription exemption and receive it, and everyone who is exempt from the prescription fee is of course also exempt from the ambulance fee. They have once again been led to an untruth, again a propaganda that is not true. That will be argued accordingly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Because you are so vehemently opposed to the ambulance fee: all of this is terrible, there is no steering measure and in fact we didn't need it at all, I can remind you that there is a folder of SPÖ Vienna, on which Mr Häupl is pictured – but this folder is already from 1995 – and in which an article by health city councillor Rieder finds himself in which he says: "A study conducted in the Wiener Rudolfstiftung revealed: In individual ambulances, 86 percent of all cases would have also been treated by established doctors, thus reducing the very high cost of hospitalization." The SPÖ recommends: "To the house doctor instead of to the hospital." They say: In the ambulances are so many people, we have to take a steering measure!, and you say that this measure is therefore perfectly correct. That is why you are so unbelievable in the argument at the ambulance fee: because you have already introduced, first and foremost, for 2 million Austrians, ambulance fees and self retention, and secondly, because you know that the ambulance fee is a right steering measure, which we will also stand on and which we will carry out. - So that makes you unbelievable. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This 2002 budget will ultimately be – and I am firmly convinced – because it does not involve any further burdens and because it continues the recovery course, ensuring the upturn for all in the next few years. There will be an upturn for all in this period of government. From now on – I say the stone and clear – it is also over that we break our heads over how we clear your baptizer, for we have already done so! Now we are thinking about the most important reforms that we will implement in the next two and a half years: childcare, social reform, ORF reform, objective post-contracting, health protection, redundancies, administrative reform, red tape, security up to pension security, and measures for greater social justice, as well as a comprehensive reorganisation and improvement of the Austrian tax system. We will implement these measures. We will implement these measures, particularly in dialogue with the population, which will certainly not only have an open ear for these measures, but will also support these measures for the fundamental reform of the state with a healthy budget, with a healthy employment situation and with a good financial situation in Austria in the next election. I'm absolutely convinced of that!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4884	Mrs Bures spoke in favour of an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you to start by reproducing the claim to be corrected and to make the corrective statement to that effect.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4909	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler claimed that apprentices are exempt from prescription fees and are therefore exempted from the ambulance fee. – This statement is false, Mr. Westenthaler! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Listen!]] I know you're upset about this topic. True is rather: Apprentices must pay ambulance fees in the future! These ambulance charges are one of the most unsocial measures you are introducing! Don't claim that apprentices are excluded from the ambulance fee – that's a false claim!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4958	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e4979	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The decision of the 2002 budget falls into an economically not easy time. For example, in December, in the run-up to Nice, I pointed out that there was some indication that an international slowing of the economy could be quite apprehensive. On the one hand, this was related to the oil crisis, on the other hand, to some of the weaknesses of the American economy and a failure to recover the Japanese situation. - You have to see that. In view of a situation where economic issues are concerned, and not just economic ones, how to react?, the question is that, given the situation, the exchange rates break down in some areas, especially in the high technology values, but also in the old economy – the Austrian situation seems to be a little off – in which there are still great uncertainties. How do you react? I must tell you, Mr Gusenbauer, I am actually disappointed that you have not taken the opportunity to present well-founded economic policy in view of this situation, because with these woodcuts: here the kingdom of light and there the kingdom of darkness, you do not come true. In such a discussion, we need to work together to develop the best economic policy strategy for Austria! I say quite frankly to you that we have been considering this for a very long time. It is not true that we are putting something down now, and that was it, but we have been sitting together for weeks and months and are within the scope of the possibilities available in economic policy, which is why: What is the best strategy for Austria? There are basically three basic possibilities. On the one hand, you can continue as before. Where this leads, you know, I don't need to get polemic right now: This meant continuing to take on high deficits, taking debt into account, which ultimately burdened taxpayers over rising interest rates. It is absolutely wrong that, as you have said, Mr Gusenbauer, the Minister of Finance has almost shifted his deficit from the budget funds to the private funds of taxpayers, but perhaps it is not common to you: The Finance Minister doesn't have a checkout! It manages optimally and carefully the money that taxpayers make available to him faithfully. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Every single schilling, each debt collection must be repaid, with interest and interest interest. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] All you believe to be able to save yourself in budget consolidation is becoming harder and more painful in the wake of each Austrian taxpayer. There is no painless budget rehabilitation! That is why we are also in a difficult phase, because we have openly said that everyone will have to make sacrifices for the reform of the budget, the budgetary policy, for full employment without debt. We have, however, taken great care to ensure that these victims, who meet everyone, are socially balanced. That is, "little people", poorers meet these necessary victims less than the middle class or those who have more. I'm in favour, I think that's right. It would be wrong to say, however, that there is a budget recovery that no one feels who does not notice taxpayers who pass through the people of that country without a trace. We know that many are angry about the fact that some benefits have been increased, that deposits have been reduced and, and so on. I know we are aware of this, but we believe that these victims are entitled because they ultimately free the future of the country. Budget consolidation means, for us, that we spend taxpayers' money on future investment rather than on credit repayments or on the interest of previous debts. [[Abg. Oils: Where?]] – This is “new government”, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There are three ways in economic policy which are theoretically imaginable: to continue as before, i.e. debt in three-digit billions in Schilling, well over 100 billion schilling each year. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Consumer policy!]] The question is: Is that what you want? If you do not want to do so – and I believe that some of your public statements have also indicated that you are in principle committed to the saving goal – if that is the case, then there are two other ways: You can do something on the revenue side or on the expenditure side. But what is not going on, ladies and gentlemen, is to criticize any increase in revenue and, at the same time, condemn any reduction in expenditure as unsocial! [[Abg. Edlinger: Who's doing that?]] Mr Gusenbauer! That's not possible, it's illogical and that's also insensitive! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: You have a selective perception, Mr. Federal Chancellor!]] We have become aware of a mixed form: to a third about revenue-based measures and to two thirds either reductions in the federal sector or modern financial compensation, a joint effort with the countries and local authorities. And since, I have to say, the Social Democratic heads of state are already more than you are, because the Pact for financial compensation has been signed with the heads of state Stix and Häupl. These gentlemen stand by, they knew how necessary in the interest of the future of our country is this budget renewal. And all that has now been implemented was known previously, has been jointly developed and has been largely accepted as a goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, your task as an opposition is to criticize individual measures. But for the sake of intellectual honesty, one should already point out: Ambulance fees have not only been proposed by the city councillor Rieder, but also by the MP and ex-minister Edlinger. Or: the abolition of the investment exemption. I have a good memory and can say that is not a gratifying ODP or FPÖ requirement. For years I have heard the same demand from socialist finance ministers Lacina to Edlinger. Stay with the truth, Mr Gusenbauer. Stand by! That's not a shame either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The difference between you and us is: We have the promise of the economy – as a temporary victim! – to abolish the investment exemption for three years, and then to abolish it in a corporate tax reform. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Too late!]] This would have been collected by you and would never have flown back to a strengthening of the economic location. That's the difference! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our budgetary situation, however, requires not only a concept of savings, but an overall concept in economic policy. First we need to reorganise, then reform and third invest, and we do everything: We clean up the budgets, we clean up the holes in the hospital register – which have not been caused by us! – we are restoring the debt situation in the ÖIAG that we have inherited, and we are rehabilitating some of the things that have been in existence in pension insurance for a long time. At the same time, we are reforming the administration, we are reforming the system of cooperation between the local authorities, we are reforming the universities and the schools because we simply want the best training for our young people. At the same time, we invest in education, research and infrastructure. If you can read the budgets, you should really look at it: Does it have any time to spend more money on research in any year, yes or no? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Yes, last year!]] You cannot deny it: In this budget most of the money is available for research and development! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Has there been – and you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition – some year in history when socialists carried the responsibility as finance ministers or chancellors in which more money was spent for schools or universities? Then get out, then tell the truth! - You're silent! No, it has not been because more money is available for this area now than ever! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The third question, which was your three points, Mr Gusenbauer, was: Has there ever been more money for infrastructure, rail and road in one year? The answer is: No, no, no, [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] The total budgets for ASFINAG, ÖBB and SCHIG are more money for this year and for next year than at any other time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore: We like to conduct the idea competition with you, but then we also want to hear ideas about alternatives! What would you like? What approaches would you have liked to make different? Where do you want more or less on the revenue page? [[Deputies Dr. Mertel and Mag. Worm: Read messages! There are SPÖ applications!]] Then, of course, the Austrian voters can make their decision, the citizens can decide: This or that is preferable to us. But I would also like to say something basic to honourable Members. I would like to point out that in recent months we have set in motion a number of social policy issues, and that is contained in this budget: the equality of workers and employees, for example – who is against them today? – or the question of a modern and forward-looking family policy. Of course, you can talk to us about certain things, for example, that there are still many things to do in the field of kindergartens of the countries and of the communities. The countries and communities will do the same, and we will help them. In the field of direct transfers, however, it is important to take young mothers the fear that children, a child or even several children may have a slip into the poverty zone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is a truly social policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Compatibility of work and family. – Mrs Mertel! You've been a family spokesperson for a long time. The professional ban, which always existed, was exactly the barrier that prevented the compatibility of work and family. If we now quadruple the limits of commitment, this means for the first time the possibility for young mothers and fathers to choose freely for child and profession. We are really proud of this, ladies and gentlemen! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, there are a number of programs organized by Martin Bartenstein together with the AMS – for which they are very much to be praised –: Re-entry premium, Karenz plus, everything is made possible. 15 000 young mothers are currently participating in such programmes, and this costs, if I am properly informed, to the 2 billion schilling. This is an impulse that we can be proud of together. We don't need to argue about this for heaven's sake! A competition for ideas of the best minds is in demand, which is still possible in this area. To say that an investment in our families from 9 to 10 billion schilling is nothing or even bad, ladies and gentlemen, is not serious, that is not serious, and I actually want to have a serious discussion with you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the third point you mentioned, on the issue of investment in brain-power, information, communication technology and all these things. – Perhaps it is still too little possible, but why don’t you take note that the biggest boost in this area has just taken place in these months? For example, we double the number of apprentices in the ICT professions, we quadruple the number of university graduates in the next four semesters, we increase the issue, the number of graduates in the middle and higher secondary schools who have an ICT degree, from 20,000 to 30 000. Is that really nothing? 40 classes more for 1,000 students? Is that not something to which the opposition can also say: Yes, that is what we stand for, that is outside the party dispute, that is important for our country!? – I say openly to you: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would have liked to have a discussion about this. Mr Oellinger! They complain that Austria is not tolerant, and anti-Semitism, racism and hatred will now take place or become stronger than ever. – Deputies! At the word, take me: It has never been done so much to involve those people who are fully integrated in Austria, whom we have invited, for whom we are responsible, in fact! [[Abg. Oillingers: Individuals!]] Those who legally live in Austria will also be able to work here. The 10 percent of foreigners – more than in any other country in the European Union – are thanks to God for being peaceful and neat and properly integrated. That is what I am proud of, honourable Member. Don't paint a picture of my homeland! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] The same applies to integration work. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] Don't you know, do you want me to tell you? [[Abg. Oils: Yes, please!]] – We currently have 10 500 teachers, who – at least 8 000 of them – do nothing else than to be available for disabled people or in any way not fully trainingable or only with difficulties in training, and 2 500 teachers are available for foreign integration for those foreigners who do not have German as their native language. I'm telling you openly: This country was, is and remains an open, tolerant country! We should also be proud of this together, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This 2002 budget will therefore be decided at a very interesting time. The economy in America is falling significantly, this year to 0 per cent, next year perhaps 1 per cent, in Japan to 0 per cent. Anyone who believes that this does not go back to Europe, even to a country like Austria, which has to reconquer 50 percent of its value added in the international competition every year. That's quite clear, too. But even if the economic researchers lose their economic forecasts tomorrow, our wise mix will keep the objectives of a budget renewal, a zero deficit and a full employment. It is important to us that this budget is the taxpayer's money in future investments rather than the repayment and recovery of old debts.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5300	Mr Edlinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5322	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Dear ladies and gentlemen!]] Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Today, we are holding the second reading of the 2002 budget, and I think it is very interesting to let the discussions which have been submitted so far pass a little revue. [[Abg. Zweytick: This is not a simple cabaret!]] First of all, the clubman of the Austrian People's Party and book author Khol spoke, who took part in an incredibly subjective display of history. Perhaps his contemporary historical views are interesting, they are – I am convinced – also literaryly excellent, but they are politically wrong, as far as you can see from the preprint. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They have talked about budget development and have complained about the fact that the budget still has today to manage the policies of Kreisky and Androsch. They forget that Austrian debt development is wonderful. [[The speaker shows a table entitled "Development of Debt since 1970".]] In the 13 years of social-democratic solo government, there were 295 billion schilling debts. In the 13 years of joint government with you, Mr. Khol, debt increased by 991 billion schilling. [[Call the SPÖ:Hear, hear! Oh! Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go!]] If you convert this to GDP, then the annual debt increase of the Republic of Austria at the time of the single government of the Social Democrats amount to 1.7 percent per year, in the coalition time with you we have achieved an increase of 2.64 percent. [[The speaker shows a further table entitled "Annual debt increase in % of GDP"]] I do not even criticise this, but I also recognize the politics of the last 30 years. I just think it's extremely interesting that you forgot everything you did in the 13 years before 2000! Therefore, Mr Khol, I would recommend another subtitle for your book. If you think your political representation here is going to happen, then you conclude that your book would probably be a racer, you would type it this way – choose it –: "From Absurdistan to the Gobi Desert" or "From the Gobi Desert to Absurdistan"; The latter, I think, is better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I thank you for the advertising, Mr. Edlinger!]] I have also listened with great interest to the statements made by the Federal Chancellor. The Federal Chancellor was a minister and vice-channer for eleven years in the red and black coalition, and after the 4th century. In February 2000, he told the astounding public: I had no idea about the budget and the debt at all! – Everyone in Austria knows that each individual decision in the Federal Government needs to be taken unanimously. Eleven years – and he had no idea! This is obviously the qualification that an Austrian Chancellor in this government needs: to have no idea. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also appreciate his contribution to the budget today. If the Federal Chancellor believes that it is a mix of revenue and expenditure, he is of course right. A budget is always a mix of revenue and expenditure, if you have not yet known! [[Call to the liberals and the ÖVP:But go!]] Only your goal is very centred: They tax the "little" by extra taxes, and they take away benefits from the state. Never had the "little people" in Austria to pay so many taxes for so little performance! This is the historic merit of your government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I find it very far-reaching when the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria says that the women so far were afraid to have children. I think this is a very interesting argument, and I have to say that I am very glad that I am married to such a "mighty" woman, because we have three children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The 2002 budget creates the framework that this government clearly needs in order to continue its course of policy to date. It is the path that continues the injustices towards the more socially weak, which continues the burdens of the "small people" who continue the redistribution at the expense of the "little" who continue to weaken income and economic growth. And it is that way that people in Vienna have given a clear departure! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] I do not want to make the claim that the results of the elections in Vienna are solely due to the policy of the Federal Government. No, I don't want that to be very measured, because, of course, the excellent policy of the Social Democrats in Vienna is a very essential aspect: For the Social Democrats, humanity counts, we have created a beautiful, human city that has not succeeded in destroying even this federal government! – That was what was finally expressed in this vote last Sunday. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your policy, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen – you call the "turn" – is indeed a turning point: a cold turn away from the politics of the last three decades of Austria. Indeed, the last three decades in which social-democratic governance existed in this country were 30 good years for Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Herrschte! That's right!]] Austria has become one of the leading industrial nations, one of the richest countries in the European Union, a country of social prosperity and a country of social peace. – This is the result of 30-year-old social democratic policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your budgetary policy builds on the fiction of the lack of truthfulness, for you have claimed – and still claim it in each of your speeches – that you have taken over disproportionate debt when you took over this country. [[The speaker shows a table again, with the title "Bulture ratio 1999".]] The debt of the Republic of Austria was 64.9% in 1999 – which is what you started. In the countries of the European Union, the average was 68.1 percent. Rather, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we have taken over orderly finances, pardon: so that you will ultimately operate on the basis of a political reality that owes you to your previous government! [[ironic cheerfulness in the liberals and call:Yes, but do not hand over]] I deeply regret that the Austrian People's Party suffers so massively from memory loss! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, you will have to pay a very expensive price once again, because if your current coalition partner comes up with what behind-thinks you have in your policy, namely a massive redistribution from bottom to top, for which the blues are to make the wall for you. This is the result of your policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You from the government parties come here and say you'd cut off debt. – True is rather: The debt level continues to rise. In the few days in which we debate your budget here, the debt of Austria is rising by 500 million schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: These are the interest rates for your debts!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Isn't that funny when you compare your policy here in the public with what you're actually doing?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's your interest!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, you also claim that Austria would have been, as it were, a budget lock. – This may be true, but only for a single year, in 1999, in the year in which the first stage of family reform took place and many measures were taken in the field of tax policy. All of this happened a little bit – I'm quite admitting it – with a shriek at the election date. And that was wrong! But you're doing the same thing now! When I think about what you promise the citizens for 2003, I can only say: You have to be scared and scared! With regret for the people, but with the serenity of a social democrat, I look forward to your chaotic policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about redistribution, we also need to look at the tax revenue. You say from the government parties that we have no alternatives from the SPÖ. . I know that you suffer from selective perception, no question at all, because you do not read our minority reports, nor our motions for resolutions. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Of course we do!]] You don't have to. You can move on in your arrogance by constantly claiming that the Social Democrats are against everything and everyone. We Socialists are not against everything. We are against the fact that you are unilaterally burdening workers and employees and pensioners in our country! On the other hand, we are! On the other hand, we're putting in a veto! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the wage tax just explodes, if that happens? – The workers and employees in this country! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! The "press" will be You probably don't want to assume that this social-democratic policy is doing. I can therefore give you a press article of 23. March – that is the summation of your policy – in which it is said that when tax increases are raised, the government surpasses all its predecessors. [[The speaker keeps a panel in height, reads from it and then introduces it to the speaker's desk.]] – Congratulations, with a regret expressed to Austrian taxpayers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Our criticism of your policy is the alternative. What, then, is our criticism, where do we put, where would we make changes? What has happened over the past 30 years – and what happens now in this so-called turn? What we criticise is an alternative. I can only recall the following: The prosperity, income, pensions of people have increased in a way that has never been the case in 30 years of social-democratic government. – Now, on the other hand, workers and pensioners are taxed, as has never been the case in history! The standard of living of the Austrians was 35 percent below that in the Federal Republic of Germany in 1970. – Today we are 5 percent above that. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thanks to our government!]] We Socialists have brought Austria to the fore, but you are catapulting our country by FPÖ and ÖVP! This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Achatz: What are your suggestions?]] In 1970, access to educational institutions was no longer dependent on money, but was made freely accessible to all people. There was the free school book, scholarships were introduced, but the study fees were abolished. [[Abg. Achatz: You only talk about the past! What are your proposals?]] In the 1970s, a middle school was opened every 50 days – and that was the case for 30 years. [[Abg. Achatz: You always look back! Finally, make proposals!]] Today, all these areas are saved: Reduced planning positions for teachers, in education is saved – and therefore unfortunately in the future of our children. [[Abg. Achatz: proposals! Proposals!]] Your Minister of Finance is enjoying the tuition fees! – This is the cold that you express to the people of our country, people who – as has been the case so far – want to have free access to the educational institutions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Achatz: proposals!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Health care has been greatly improved over the last 30 years. [[Abg. Achatz: proposals!]] Every day there were two doctors... – Papagei! [[Abg. Achatz: proposals!]] [[Call to the liberals: Unheard!]] It's okay. [[Abg. Achatz: proposals!]] The proposals are as follows: Smoothing your disassembly in the social field! This is a comprehensive social policy concept, but unfortunately you have no idea! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn) "Papagei" he says to one of our delegates! Unheard of! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)]] That was the change of social democratic policy: two doctors, five nurses every day more! And that for 30 years! – But what happens today? – sick people are burdened, accident pensioners are punished taxly. The way to the two-class medicine is precisely defined. The ambulance fee will come back! And what does your work programme say? – Mitterlehner has already managed this –: Review of the introduction of self retention on all medical visits. 20 percent retention on every doctor's visit, that's in your work programme! Mitterlehner thus presents a "positive test" in this respect. – Again: That's the way to the two-class medicine! That's what you want to order the Austrians, my dear respect. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the 30 years of socio-democratic government, no less than 720 000 jobs were created. – As you say of the coalition today, unemployment is low: This was always low in Austria, because it was the main objective of social-democratic policy, and also at times when in other countries there was a 10 %, or 12 % unemployment rate, to invest massively in employment policy. This was not always easy with the ÖVP – I can tell you that. It was not easy to make a worker-oriented policy with her; but we did it in the end. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] However, they want to see different things in this area differently today. They cut down AMS funds from the coalition parties, ultimately cut down in the area of means where they would have to be used for workers and employees in our country. And that's what I blame you for. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you now ask what the alternative is, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. – The alternative is that we can’t really approve the policy of social disassembly, the policy that only the so-called small taxes are collected, but multimillionaires operate their profits in foundations past the Fiscus and want to have a change. This is the policy I criticize, ladies and gentlemen. But I miss alternatives on your part! And here we will keep holding the mirror again and again, if you pretend to be there for the people in our country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Prolonged calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, both by the so-called Christian-Social Party and by the ÖVP. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Call the ÖVP: What are you doing?]] It's fasting. Hold back! Go inside! [[Call to the ÖVP: Is that the ten commandments Edlingers?]] Be entertaining with other big but empty announcements! Save with false promises! Save with untruths! Save more with yourself and with expenditure for propaganda! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I ask you, Minister Grasser: Is it true that at the third reading there is still a request concerning 50 million schilling to be made in addition to propaganda in this House, inadvertently straight? [[Ruf:This rumour kitchen of the Edlinger...]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I ask you very specifically whether that corresponds to reality! Again: Save You're with yourself! Save No longer at the expense of the "little people"! Save No longer at the expense of the diligent and decent Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5859	Mr Westenthaler spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5883	Mr President. High house! Mr Edlinger has clearly demonstrated here from the speaker's desk a Member of this House with a comparison of animals. . I therefore ask, Mr Edlinger, that the SPÖ Group here again and again point out past times when animal comparisons are being made, that is why it is precisely for this reason that there is a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5935	Deputies! I have already requested the protocol and will comment on it over the course of today. Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e5959	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The 2002 budget is aimed at achieving fiscal consolidation. The aim of the Federal Government to have no new debt and full employment was to find and find broad social consensus. Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you of reform dialogues 1 and 2: All the socially relevant and large groups in our country were involved: the government, as well as the opposition, which, however, now no longer wants to remember or can remember, as do the countries and communities, the social partners, science. And – which was probably the most important thing – the population supported this consolidation course. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, the goal of achieving fiscal consolidation by 2002 – that is, in a very short time – has made a radical departure from the previous course necessary. So far, we of the ÖVP have been in the process, we know what we are talking about – hesitant, slow, half-wayed, and often half-hearted attempts to put the budget right. In 1995, the ÖVP – I will never forget – insisted that the budget deficit in Austria would be right. However, there were elections in 1995 – and the SPÖ always refused the pursuit of this goal at the time. I would like to point this out, ladies and gentlemen, and I would also like to remind you of the pensioner's letter of the then Federal Chancellor Vrannitzky. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'll never forget that!]] The new path to which this Federal Government has decided is not easy – and it is especially an unusual procedure in Austria, which is, however, absolutely necessary. The starting point was dramatic, Mr Edlinger: 1,700 billion schilling old debts mean costs of operating the old debt of 114 billion schilling annually – and that is more than the sum of budget chapters education, culture and science combined! In view of this situation, the Federal Government had to act quickly and decisively. Although economic development is no longer so simple: The economic data 2000 and the current forecasts for 2002 are quite satisfactory, and above all it is – the most important! – the labour market situation is particularly favourable. They can store newspapers daily and will recognize strong demand for the economy on the labour market. In Austria we currently have a record of self-employed employees: over 3 million people. The unemployment rate is 3.7 percent; Austria is thus in the tip of Europe. This government, which is trying to bring order into state finances, is being accused by the opposition – and there is a great deal from Mr Edlinger – of "social cold", "human contempt", and of "destruction of solidarity". [[Call the SPÖ: That's right!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: (in the direction of the Abg. Edlinger) Bad short-term memory!]] Negate all these accusations You are truly fundamental, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, because: Why does this budget have to be renovated? – In order to maintain this very solidarity, namely solidarity between generations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In case of completely unrestricted expenditure growth, then suddenly one generation would only have to repay more debt at all! Of course, we are also aware of the solidarity between the strong and the weak, but it must be extended to include solidarity among the generations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You can't go on Duration of the youth left uncovered checks to be able to win very cheap elections for the moment. – This is very easy to do, Mr Edlinger! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In particular, debt must also be repaid – and budgetary consolidation must take place in which, at least in some way, full employment exists. And that's exactly the time that this government has used. It is also not "social cold" if, in such times, the welfare state is reduced to those areas in which it is actually needed. – Social cold would be to build on the livability of social systems to other generations. The decision-making process for this budget is the first major step towards a reform package – and we have thus taken a major step forward in the reorganisation of state finances. However, what already upset me are the reflexes, are the Ural reflections of the opposition: They are now trying again to suggest to the population that there is no need for any change, that all the measures of this Federal Government are exaggerated, indeed unnecessary. – With this, ladies and gentlemen, above all of the SPÖ, you go into a completely structural-conservative and, above all, in a direction passing by reality and the facts just to disregard. – This was your attitude, too, which has brought us exactly where we now have to move so hard away. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties: If you do not believe in conservative budgetary policies, then take an example of other EU countries, including EU countries governed by socialists: The majority of these countries can already have budget surpluses. This federal government – which has already been suggested here a number of times – faces the challenge of many further reforms, and the most important of them is my belief in the administrative reform. As with the national objective of fiscal consolidation, all the key forces in our country must also cooperate in this objective, because, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, that is a difficult goal, this path is a rocky but more necessary one. And: The corresponding potential is also available. The public hand must rely on its core functions; We can't afford double-tracks anymore. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call:Why does ÖVP not know]] This reform must be implemented together with the countries and communities: one another, not one another. In a federalist state – and we confess federalism – such a reform can always only be carried by all local authorities; all forces must be bundled. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Keywords!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say a few words on media policy. In the field of media policy, a great deal has already been presented by this Federal Government. The famous "Stillstand", which has been conjured so often, which actually took place for years, has finally been overcome – and it is irrevocably over. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Mertel.]] – No, the German Chancellors have always been the Social Democratic Party in the last three decades! You should actually know that, Madam President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] For example, I just remember this important law regarding "KommAustria". And what's in front of us? – A modern, forward-looking ORF law and a private TV law. To make the ORF fit for the challenges of the next years, but to allow private television, that must be the foreign exchange. But also here is the image of the opposition: Again and again, lamenting about alleged attempts by the government to secure power and influence in the media. But where were you when it came to this independent authority, Mr Cap? - Yes, on the other hand. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: On the other hand, he was!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Nothing but keywords!]] Work with us on this future-oriented media development – instead of giving in to this opposition reflex refusal again and again! We have been waiting a long time for your cooperation, but I am afraid we will have to wait even longer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] This government has started a long-term reform process. There is always criticism, perhaps also quite legitimate, and there is a need for legitimate and constructive criticism, yes, of course, but: The return so often sought by the opposition to old, rigid structures must and will not exist! This cannot be achieved by Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6154	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6176	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Bundeskanzler, you have pointed out that the debate here in the House should, as it were, be conducted more seriously, and They have said that there are several ways of achieving certain budgetary targets, in this case the zero deficit holds. The fact that there are always revenue and expenditure measures is not really impressive. The question then is where, within the expenditure-side measures, the priorities are set within the revenue-side measures. Behind that is the true face of political initiatives and a government's access to content. If both sides today agree that this government is a turn-over government – you say this and that it is good, the others say it's bad – one must also say: In some areas, a change in content has actually occurred – and this must be assessed. It is not so much about – as is always said in particular by the ÖVP, but it is also preached by the FPÖ – that this magical zero deficit is in the foreground. That is an aspect, in principle a condition for economic policy to determine the level of the budget deficit, but this should not, as it were, be made a kind of replacement religion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] No one will have anything against it if, in times of good economic activity, proper and proper measures are put in place to reduce a deficit which may be considered too high when we have to pay 100 billion schillings per year. Of us, there was no objection to such a procedure at first. However, they will have to be allowed by the coalition parties to debate where and how this objective is achieved. And you can't mess up everything just because you want to write the big zero in front of it, so to speak. I can't! This is also unscrupulous, Mr Bundeskanzler, and there you played too! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For example, if we look at the comparison of revenue/expenditure measures or the structure within only the revenue side and only the expenditure side, we would have revenue structures such as in the Scandinavian or comparable other countries, then we could only say: congratulate! In fact, we would not only have a zero deficit, but we would already have a budget surplus. In any case, we would have no objection – Mr Van der Bellen. [[Abg. Böhacker: What do you want to do? Say it! Get out of there!]] Mr Böhacker, you know exactly what divides us ideologically. And I come to the argument of sustainability. Because you haven't answered this so persistently the last time, I want to repeat this now: We are of course not of the opinion that a large basket should already be offered for 2003, so to speak, to client-oriented – in this case, of course, your clients – promises regarding tax reductions in the area of companies. This is, for example, a significant difference between you and us. We would probably have planned other measures in the area of foundation taxation, but I admit that the budget alone cannot be rehabilitated; that is clear. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Yes, you and the wealth tax...!]] Federal Chancellor Schüssel has explained here that promises had already been made in the future from various locations – and that would be done again. I believe you are, but first and foremost, you are working on your own ministers, who are still in office and dignity in some way. I am referring, for example, to the Third President of the National Council Dr. Fassleven, who has laid enough eggs for us in his capacity as Minister of Defense; we can still fry until Easter. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] What are the differences? . I am not going into the debate on NATO accession and what budgetary advances would be necessary. However, it would be interesting to discuss it if the chancellor were back in the house. [[Call the ÖVP:Look! The Federal Chancellor is behind you on the government bank!]] – On the basis of a definition to join NATO, it means: percentage higher expenditure in the military sector, as measured by GDP; yes, that would be an obligation. You know it is. And we do not need to talk about what adjustments in the military-technical and infrastructural field would be necessary in such a case! We know very well that this is not just about the interception hunters, but only this acquisition would already go to the 40-billion schilling limit, but at least 25 billion shilling would apply for it. That's what everyone who's working on it knows. So there are the differences, and that's what it's all about: What are the measures used to manage how? This is the task of budgetary and tax policy. It's certainly not a coincidence that it's called that. – But you want to blur all of this by constantly dancing around this zero like a cult dance and actually performing a woodoo. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] As I said, The facade is crumbling, the paint is already matted, even with the Minister of Finance, because behind these measures a number of really conservative-reactionary – but that be it to you – are politically inconspicuous measures. And that's what it's all about. I come again to the question of sustainability because, last time, Mr Finz has refused to address this question. I understand that if he does not want to deal with the green opposition alone, then we are quoting the European Commission. It also says nothing but us, that the ratio of revenue to expenditure recovery is such that there can in no way be any mention of sustainability – if something is not added. And what's going to happen? – They have promised further expenditure in the area of families, agriculture, the military sector – that is why I say: conservative-reactionary. And you also promised tax gifts for the entrepreneurs. You from the government parties remain guilty of the answer as to how this sheer is to be done, which you have already opened up for 2004. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But they can be celebrated here for the achievement of this zero, which, however, cannot necessarily be described as great art in times like this, I think. . But I also understand the need of the SPÖ, which the propaganda-waltz of this federal government can hardly resist, the SPÖ in the past, together with the ÖVP, has not always been the happiest course and has in reality decided on it itself savings packages, even with the ÖVP, which were at least as incisive as the current ones. It is the evil luck of Mr Edlinger and his predecessor that, even at his time, rehabilitation packages have been made through which there have been percentage savings, measured again by GDP, savings that were greater than those currently in place to achieve this zero. The only thing to congratulate you on by the government parties is this glorious idea, as you can make from a zero as much. This is a merit of the Minister of Finance, since you all followed him. I think this is relatively smart, but it's not going forever, and, as I said, the facade is already crumbling. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Here, for example, the Pact on financial compensation has also been strengthened – Mr Khol is not here now, but the Federal Chancellor has also referred to it. We are, of course, suspicious of the fact that this will continue to be the case. Regularly Come But it is with the answer that there is also an internal Austrian Stability Pact, which was signed. Listen carefully to what the ladies and gentlemen have to say about this, for example in the media: If that and that is not, then neither this nor that and that. – Mr Trattner now nods, he knows what I want to do. On the occasion of the re-ignited discussion on how to address this drinking tax refund, state politicians said only yesterday: Yes, if that is all the way it looks at the state of affairs, then we will not be able to comply with our financial compensation agreements. – In front of the curtain, Mr Trattner, you have an opportunity to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] – Where that comes from now is the one thing – but we are now dealing with your promises. Schossel and Khol have said how great this financial compensatory pact is, which according to its content – Mr Böhacker, you know that exactly – is essentially a continuation with the old structures. It has not happened much, a few nuances on the population key – I know that interests you as mayor, colleague Zweytick, that is all right – but essentially the old structures have been rewritten. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Zweytick and Mr Böhacker]] And that is the deficit in this financial compensation; the administrative reform. The ASFINAG was also stressed by Mr Khol. But none of this is rehabilitated. Where, please, is the Asfinag renovated? – Please, come on. You're out and explain this to us! But perhaps the Minister of Finance can help us there, he has already spoken. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also in the hour of glorious proclamations – this is now ongoing for months now; the last budget speech with the collection of quotations from the "happy Lord God's angle" was here the summit of these sermons – legitimate that one question that with regard to the relevance of the future. I come to the priorities that we have always criticized in the areas of education, research and development. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have referred to the integration teachers in the field of education, i.e. rather you have made an apologies for my colleague, Ollinger, how many teachers are not in class to advance integration efforts. It is precisely these teachers that are being terminated now because of your actions! That's the problem! And that's where you want to sell us that all this is used for the future. – It is not a red tape reduction, but a plumper personnel reduction at the expense of the future and not a future orientation! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is also in the field of research and development. You have to keep talking about a number of things. Until now, at least within the OECD, it has been common – we already know the dispute – to strenghten these expenditures in percentage terms in terms of GDP as a comparison indicator and not in absolute terms. Otherwise, one would have to be so fair and at least make an inflation adjustment, but not even as fair as the speakers were in this matter. I have now looked nominally at this, and if you assume 2 to 3 percent of the annual increase, then not even in absolute figures there is a great progress, let alone – and in our opinion that is the relevant indicator – in percentages of GDP. However, they come here and say: Never has so much been done for research and development! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] You have to let that happen if you ask for a serious discussion. The last points – you know that – have also been raised by Mr Edlinger: If it is true that once again 50 million schillings are to be spent for this campaign this year, I can only tell you: We'll keep knocking on your fingers. In reality, this is not an information campaign, but a pool of untruths that you let go of people – and that at the expense of the taxpayer! [[Abg. Kiermaier: Yes!]] At the expense of those taxpayers who are constantly stressed by you, who are, so to speak, put into the center of your thinking, the discipline, the diligent; you are still manipulating it now. Congratulations – for this we needed the FPÖ in the government! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: This is only the answer to your untruth! The government is obliged to do so!]] I come back to integration again because the Federal Chancellor, and I find it legitimate on the occasion of a budget speech... – Mr Westenthaler is now happy again in plenary. [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Mag. Trattner.]] I've found this quite well, Mr. Westenthaler... – Haider, too, I'm still coming. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What's going to be Haider?]] But I said, "Heiner im Plenum". [[Abg. May. Trattner: Although your speech is so whining!]] You have done quite well in this election situation, at least as far as the tolerance here in the house is concerned. Her speech was more moderate than usual. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You like it now?- Oh, my God!]] - That's something else. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I just said it was easier to stand. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] If your wisdom on last Sunday is that you're flying around with the "Führer" fable and holding it to the SPÖ, then it's really not all. [[towards the freedom of movement]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Werner, now you don't know each other anymore!]] But that's not just my problem. I only mention this because it is still a crucial question. [[Abg. Böhacker: Now he's lost the thread!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Now the Westenthaler has come in too fast, now he has lost the thread!]] It is precisely the head of state from Carinthia, to whom it has been reserved to drag an element into Austrian internal policy in this unscrupulous speech in Ried, which has so far not been there – at least not in the last decades. Mr Bundeskanzler, it is not possible, on this holding by Mr Öllinger, only with the argument that the country is ready for integration – "the country"! – to answer and bring a few examples. Thank God the country is still ready for integration, but there is a lot to be feared in this government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have so far failed to find clear words, Mr. Federal Chancellor! And now you've got to keep the country behind which you're hiding. As for the region of Vienna, the big city of Vienna, I must say: We can look calmly into the future, you've got the bill presented! – The country is all right, the government is not! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Especially in Simmering!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6522	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6544	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! Now, of course, my colleague Edlinger is not in the hall, but I have to say he always suffers a little memory wound. I'm gonna help him a little bit on the jumps now. First: He criticizes the 50 million schilling for a campaign. [[Abg. Leikam: In addition!]] [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens: The Haider has criticized!]] Mr Edlinger has to look at the Vienna Landesbudget. In the Vienna Landesbudget, 450 million Schilling are planned for PID alone, the Press Information Service. [[Abg. Leikam: Wischi-Waschi campaign, says the Haider!]] And before the Wiener Landtagswahl one has made available for the presentation of the city councils alone – so that they can make beautiful folder with beautiful pictures and more like them – another 180 million. – A pure jubilee brochure, no information brochure! To the jubilee brochures, the I should like to say that you made earlier in the Federal Government: The Federal Government's advertising efforts in 1998 amounted to 163 million Schilling, Mrs Mertel! 163 million schilling! [[Abg. Haigermoser: How much?]] Of that alone for the Chancellor 71 million schilling – right, right, that's in Argentina! – and the Minister of Transport, 37 million Schilling. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And then he goes to Argentina, the Vickerl!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: And buy one consecration for the other!]] How has the advertising been split up, who has got what, how much has been spent in what area? If you have a key, you can see about the relation. Onsets in the "Standard": SPÖ 5 million, ÖVP only 1.7 million. There are connections in the "FORMAT", which were at all only for the SPÖ – only the red circle. Onsets in TV-media [[the speaker shows a graphic]] A little cake corner belongs to the ÖVP, but the rest of the cake has heard the SPÖ! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The ads of the Trade Union Confederation are not yet included!]] So you've acted, and now you're saying an information campaign of 50 million schilling, that's a big disaster. I think you're suffering so much from memory trauma that you can't even imagine it anymore. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I also say to you: I would have liked the Social Democrats to have behaved under their then Minister of Finance as he has spoken here. But he behaved quite differently. I would remind you of the speech by President Vergestnich on Mr Finanzminister's actions. [[Abg. Verbatim: Reading!]] I will help you a little bit on the jumps and tell you what the then Minister of Finance did. The general tax deduction for taxable income between 200 000 S and 500 000 S will be cut down, and it will fall from 500 000 S. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Verzetznitsch voted in favour of this.]] Special expenditure – Mr President, I have not heard from you! –, which could be reduced to half before, only more than one quarter were decommissionable. The first five overtimes are only more tax-free, up to 590 s. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Vergestnitsch has voted in favour! Where was the union?]] Where have you been, Mr President? The validity of the exemption decisions has been suspended since June 1996 and it has only been valid since 1998. These measures have, after all, amounted to 117 billion schillings. And what happened to the 117 billion schillings? Has there been a reduction in public debt? Has a reduction in re-indebtedness taken place? On the contrary! Minister of Finance Edlinger said: I wasn't responsible for the whole thing at the time, because I wasn't the Minister of Finance at all at the time! – But Minister of Finance Edlinger was responsible for something: for the development after these measures! And the development following these measures was devastating, in that the public deficit in 1997 accounted for 1.7 percent of gross domestic product, 2.3 percent in 1998 and 2.1 percent in 1999. He didn't care about the consolidation course at all. That's why the problem arose. It was no different in the case of public debt. Public debt remained at 64.7% in relation to gross domestic product from 1997 to 1999 at 64.7%. Look Let me say to Mr Edlinger that he has to correct his beams, which are obviously wrong, before he turns out here again and blaming again! [[the speaker shows a graphic the other day]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: By the way, there has already been all the loads of Nuremberger and Vergestnitsch! They all voted in favour!]] And if you say that revenue and expenditure have never been as high as now, I can also take you back to the sentences again. Revenue and expenditure [[the speaker shows another graphic]] In 1997, expenditure was 53.8% of gross domestic product, 53.6% of gross domestic product in 1999 and 51.8% in the following years, 51.8% in 2000, 51.4% in 2001 and 50.1% in 2002. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me say to Mr Edlinger that he should finally learn to calculate on the opposition bank. As Minister of Finance, he has proved he can't. He should at least look at this information so as not to be constantly blaming! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Why is this criticism against the Austrian People's Party not justified? – I don’t take the Austrian People’s Party into protection, it was in the government at the time, but colleague Edlinger misinformed the Austrian People’s Party, consciously misinformed! [[Abg. Nürnberger: ( towards ÖVP) But they don't know that anymore!]] I'm allowed to go to 175. Meeting of the National Council of 17 December 1970. In June 1999 we discussed the tax reform. Mr Van der Bellen said at that time that this is a blank check. Mr Edlinger said: "You therefore do not need to try to follow a line of argument in the next election campaign, which asks the question of how high the budget hole is. There is no one there." [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who said that?]] "There is no one available," said Edlinger. He should look at the protocols, see what he said as Minister of Finance at the time, and compare them with how the whole thing then appeared in the final effect. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is the short-term memory!]] It is good that this Minister of Finance had to go, otherwise this budget could never have been rehabilitated. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] How important it is for this budget to be rehabilitated and that the path to zero re-indebtedness is shown by the experts' statements. Felder says that this time the Minister of Finance saved the lower incomes. And then we're going to go on: The Minister of Finance has made expenditure on a political basis, which was possible in a short time. In the medium term, i.e. in two to three years, consolidation measures should have positive effects. And IMF Chief Köhler: Praise for Austrian budget. Austria was on a good economic policy course, which would help to strengthen competitiveness, growth and employment policy. The IMF welcomes the launch of budgetary policy. – We cannot imagine a better praise at all! We already have the first experience data, we already have the first experience data: the first economic data, the impact on employment, the impact on the increase of new business start-ups, and they can be seen. [[Abg. Controversy: How many have locked up?]] At the end of February, we had a maximum employment rate of 3,090 million unemployed employees, to the month of Feber. The Feber reported only more than 248 363 unemployed – the lowest level since the 1980s. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] The development continued: The number of long-term unemployed could be reduced by 60 percent. 24 000 new companies took place in Austria. That's something! You can't mess with that! Take note of these positive figures and say: Something happened! – It’s not all good, because you can’t clean up everything in a year, which was obviously neglected in 30 years. But in this one year so much has happened, so that a lot of confidence in this federal government has developed and it has come to this development, to these figures, and we can all be really proud of them. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And if you say today that the federal government is doing too little for education, that the federal government is spending too little on research, I must tell you: The development of the figures should also be considered in this area, from 1997 to 2000 and from the Federal Estimate 2001 and 2002. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] There is an increase which can be seen from 6.7 billion ye in 1997 to 7.7 billion j in 2000. Federal estimate 2001: 7.9 billion y, and Federal estimates 2002: 8 billion y. And the Federal Government's research expenditure When you were in the government, you limited federal expenditure on research to 1.133 billion, and now, under the new Federal Government, you've just been committed to spending 1.4 billion ye on research expenditure. [[the speaker shows another graphic]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] – In total, of course, these are the federal expenditures, Mr President Vergestnich! Of course, the federal government is also interested in this and is aware of the fact that – you know that too – you know these figures, where the research rate in Europe is high. The research rate is, of course, high in those countries of Europe where there is an incentive for the private economy to invest much in research and development accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] With us in Austria, the research rate on the part of the federal government is very high, but relatively low on the part of the economy. There must be a turnaround, and this government has undertaken to reach the figures that the Scandinavian countries have. For example, in Finland it is exactly the opposite, where the share of public authorities in research is low and that of the economy is high. That's the goal! [[Abg. Versatile: Higher tax rate!]] The government's objective was also and will always be to do something for the future perspective of the Austrian population in addition to the budget consolidation measures. It does not make sense to spend 43 percent of the amount of the social chapter per year alone for the interest of public debt. It makes no sense either if you stick to the fact that the public hand should continue to be entrepreneurs. You can't hang on to it. [[Abg. Fortuitous: See Telekom!]] Mr President, Telekom is a very good example of how you have skinned this whole thing. [[Abg. It's a big deal: We?]] Telekom is the best example of how you've made it all. We drew your attention to this year ago – at that time the post had an equity of 120 billion schilling. At the time, they took disproportionately high amounts from the phone fees to stop budget holes. We have always made it clear to you that this path will simply lead to a negative level of equity in the postal sector. You've totally ignored that. You've made the privatisation, the stock exchange much too late. [[Abg. It's a big deal: We?]] . They were the preventers, the Social Democratic Group was the preventer. Now it was high time to do this to compensate for the obliviousnesses, these negligences that you committed at the time. If you had made it earlier, a higher amount would have been to be achieved for the Post and Telekom. But I didn't want to go into post and Telekom now – you've caused that – but I wanted to go into a parade example of what it means when a private person takes over a nationalized company: AT&S – Androsch. This is the parade of privatisation. You know very well that at that time, when the state intervened, the losses were higher than sales – and today this is a parade business with revenues that can be seen! That is why we will not go away from the privatisation strategy so that public debt can also be reduced, and the future will no longer be burdened by interest payments, but will provide support for our youth.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6911	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e6933	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Secretary of State! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In his speech, the Federal Chancellor stressed that there were several alternatives: either as further as before or as fundamentally different. And we've been looking at what means "as much as before." "As far as we are concerned," ladies and gentlemen, we would have had 168 billion schilling more in financial debt in Austria in the 2002 budget – and this is the budget we are talking about today. The social democratic path would have continued: 168 billion schilling more debt in Austria, 9.8 billion schilling more interest in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] And that's why we said: That can't be our way! We want to reform, as Pedro Solbes said from the Commission of the European Union, and we want to make a spectacular improvement. And that is why we can present today a historical estimate, which for the first time includes a zero deficit, which does not include any new burdens in the budget accompanying laws and sets out the priorities for the future security of our country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is really a pity that it is not successful to recognise from the opposition that positive action is being taken here for this country. I very much regret that you continue what has been recognized by the media in Austria for weeks. For example, Mr. Stanzel writes in the "Kurier", "that the Reds now play the role they once, as a government party, have accused" opposition: That's a destructive radical opposition." We should not do what is good for this country, which is important for Austria, but we should see that highly recognized media in Germany and abroad are quite supportive of this path. ==References====External links== March 2001: "Austria's budget is slowly coming into the lot – a balanced budget for the year 2002. Example "Handelsblatt" from Germany, 2. March 2001: Austria's government is keeping pace with a balanced general government budget in 2002. After higher taxes and tariffs this year, the management will be saved in the coming year. This shows very clearly: We're on the right track, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Because today's quoting is "in", I must continue and not shut down this trend. For example, Professor Frisch from the State Debt Committee and the entire State Debt Committee – and this should already be thought about, above all give you some thought, because you know who is in the State Debt Committee: Representatives of the Chamber of Workers, the Trade Union Confederation, the Chamber of Commerce, senior experts, who also advised my predecessor, today's colleague Edlinger, in his last opinion on fiscal consolidation of 14. December 2000 – I can also quote it –: [[Call the SPÖ:More heart!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Haider says: more heart!]] The Government Committee welcomes the significant intensification of the consolidation efforts of the new Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Are you a technocrat?]] And he goes on to say: By implementing this new consolidation programme, Austria will not only meet international commitments but also create a sufficient space for the implementation of automatic stabilisers, increase the scope for economic policy accents and support the monetary policy of the Eurosystem. – End of the quote. This is our policy, which is obviously supported by the Chamber of Workers and Trade Unions in the State Debt Committee. That's probably more than reveal your double-soil. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But where is the heart?]] The Federal Chancellor has very, very clearly stated the concrete positive effects. If we managed – in the "Institutional Investor", this is about the attractiveness of our economic location – in such a short time, where we were number 16 in September 2000 to now be classified as the number 9 of the world – for the attractiveness of the economic location and thus for the employees – we should be happy and all say: We are proud of what has been achieved in a short time, because it benefits Austria, employment and the economic location! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Why have we actually received this better classification? Why did we succeed? – Because we have a sound financial policy; a financial policy that has enabled 667 billion schilling of investment in Austria by our economy alone last year. We have thus achieved the highest value of private investment in the EU comparison. We have 24 000 newly founded companies. We have achieved the objective of the National Action Plan for Employment, 100 000 more workers, a year earlier. Last year alone, the number of employees could be increased by 25,800, of which 23,700 are women. We could significantly reduce the number of older unemployed. We are in a comparison of the EU indicators, which were also discussed in Stockholm, with the labour market indicators everywhere number two, number three, that is, at the very top of the European comparison. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As far as poverty in Austria is concerned, we are far ahead in European comparison. Austria is because this has been addressed, also in the field of education – ladies and gentlemen, your accusation is indifferent, superficial, not consistent with the facts and is that we are saving in the field of education – the number three in education expenditure in the European comparison. We are the number three across Europe, which is the result of educational expenditure. Take a look at what is contained in our budgets, for example, for new professional universities. We have approved 13 new courses – in modern technologies, information and communication engineering in Dornbirn, medical information technology in Klagenfurt, information technologies, IT marketing in Graz. From 1999 alone, the budget of the vocational colleges will virtually double to 2002. We are in the field of education, what is going on for a student, the best in Europe, we are spending the most money on our students, we are only surpassed in one area of Denmark. This shows very clearly: We're not just talking about it, we're not telling the population that we're making a technology billion that doesn't actually come, but we're making seven technology, seven research and development billions because we know that this is important for higher-qualified jobs in Austria. It is important for the restructuring of our economy. It is important for us to be able to create employment in high-tech sectors in Austria. The Council for Research and Technology has already approved two tranches of more than 2 billion schilling so that we can create a lever here so that we can make a leap forward with the economy, which is what research and development, and thus future policy for our country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We focus on social and family policies. If you look at the childcare allowance, you can see: It is the first time in a long time that a finance minister no longer intervenes in the family compensation fund. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You got involved last year with 14 billion! They deceive and deceive the people! Now get into unemployment insurance! That's a deception!]] It is the first time since long that we have spent the money available for the families for the children, because we see that the children are only 17 percent of the Austrian population, but are 100 percent of the future of our country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Instead of 8 billion schilling – even if you don't want to hear it – we will spend about 16 billion schilling for childcare money in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: 2000 you got 14 billion!]] This is a very, very important increase in purchasing power for our families! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: 16 billion are already, Main means it's 13 billion! There are 13 billion in the budget!]] This makes us the best way to become Europe's most child-friendly and family-friendly country. And that is something we can rightly be proud of. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to turn to an argument that Mr Gusenbauer has tried to bring in by claiming several times that we are responsible for the highest tax rate in Austria. I would also like to say several times if the opposition should take longer to acknowledge the reality: In 1997, the tax and tax rate was 44.8% and will be 44.3% in 2002. That means we're very happy to leave you the record value in this area. They will be those who have collected the highest taxes and charges in Austria! If one uses a very simple comparison and says that in 2002 the tax revenue in Austria rose by 111 billion schilling, then one should actually say that the Austrians have overall achieved a higher value added: In 1999, the value added we generated was 2 700 billion schilling. In 2002, it will amount to 3,075 billion. That means we have an increase in value added by 350 billion schilling. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] The amount of wages, ladies and gentlemen, rose from 123 billion schilling in 1999, old Federal Government, to 1.248 billion. That is, the employees in Austria, the employees, will earn a total of 125 billion schillings in these three years. That with an increase in value added, with more wages and salaries that we can thank God in our country, of course also higher tax payments, one should actually say in such a simple comparison. [[Abg. Silhavy: And then you'll cash it off again!]] If you still want to compare how socially just the consolidation we operate is, you just need to look at what happened to the bulk income in 1997. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You're cheating!]] How did mass income develop through your savings package in 1997? There was a real wage reduction of 2.5 percent in 1997. 2.5 percent less actually available income for employees in Austria! There will be an increase of 0.7 percent in 2002. That means 2.5 percent minus with you, an increase with us. This shows how socially just a consolidation of a household can actually work. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you still criticise the relationship between revenue-based and expenditure-side consolidation, we would not do well to clean up too little on the expenditure side, and if the question came where we would save ourselves, I can tell you: If we had not consolidated, the expenditure in Austria would have amounted to 848 billion schilling in 2002. In fact, expenditure in the estimate amounts to 802 billion schilling. That is to say, we have managed to make room for a reduction of 46 billion schillings: through an administrative reform, by not re-occupying 11 000 posts, by disseminating 4,000 jobs – alone that brings 800 million y – through a pension reform that brings 800 million y, through a levying of funds, where we do not spend the money for other things, which brings 840 million y, by measures at the ÖBB and at the SCHIG, which bring 200 million y, through interest reliefs and through our financial policy, which also brings 200 million y. This shows very clearly that we have consolidated very strongly on the expenditure side. This has also been confirmed by the European Commission. In 2003 we will have consolidated more on the expenditure side than on the revenue side. I now come to the last point, ladies and gentlemen, in which I do not wish to speak in praise of my own financial policy, but rather to tell you what the people are saying about what is written in letters of readers on the policy you want to spread about, that it is not socially fair, that it represents a redistribution from top to bottom. ==References====External links== February 2001 a letter from Mr. Gottfried Fabian with the title: "Where's the horror?" He writes in it the following – I quote –: "Because of the ongoing claims that this is a horror package in the 2001 load package, I have precisely analysed the topic for my family (two children, our ‘family manager’ – that is, a mother who takes care of the children at home – and I as a single earner). The savings packages in 1996 and 1997 resulted in an annual additional burden of S 23,677,– for us. In contrast, today's changes in the legislation under the 2000 tax reduction and the 1999 and 2000 family support and the annual reduction in interest rates for our loans (!) of S 21 230,–. We are happy to live in 2001 and praise this ‘horror package’." - Quote. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is socially just consolidation to which we confess! In this way you need to recognize: We succeed in consolidating the household that you have never succeeded! We focus on infrastructure because we know about the leverage effect on employment. We are also focusing on research and development and education, and we are pursuing a wise and wise financial policy for the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7182	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7203	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Finanzminister, I do not agree that the letterwriter is the one who has donated 10 000 S to you. But the suspicion is close. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now I want to hear a single proposal from the Trade Union Confederation!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make it clear at the beginning of my speech: They constantly assume in this debate that social democracy has always wanted to continue in its policy as it has been. I'll hold you here. We have started reforms, we are in favour of reforms, but just as you have done, but we are, ladies and gentlemen, from the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because you have addressed the deficit trend: I can still recall speakers from the ÖVP, also speakers on the government bank, speakers from Social Democracy and other speakers here in the House, who said that we also made debts, but not to finance unemployment, but to finance work. I believe that this too should be included in the considerations on budgetary development, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Trattner! They called AT&S Hinterberg. I assume you will take Mr Androsch's criticism of budgetary development as seriously as his success at AT&S Hinterberg. Or do I see that wrong? [[Abg. May. Trattner: You see that wrong!]] Do I see that wrong? – Take its budget criticism Are you as serious as his success in the company? [[Abg. May. Trattner: I take everything seriously!]] Well, then you know exactly what you need to change. Read Androsch's statements exactly, then you know what the wrong way you are going, Mr Trattner! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Androsch is not always right!]] Federal Chancellor! You mentioned in a debate here in the House that raising the retirement age was a very crucial point. I personally believe that not the increase in the retirement age is the solution to the problems, but a break-through of that policy which we unfortunately still feel in this country: too old for work, too young for retirement. – I see in this the solution to the problem and not just the increase in the retirement age. Because much has already been quoted today, I also allow myself to quote someone who is not suspicious of being close exclusively to the trade union federation or to social democracy, but, as I believe, has been objectively recognized as a renowned economic researcher, even in the future. I quote Helmut Kramer literally: In the lower third of the distribution of income, the additional burden of these 2000 measures is clearly beyond the previous relief from wage tax reduction. And then Kramer says: As a result of the change in income tax law from 2001, all active workers and pensioners in the middle income categories will again pay the most of the benefits from the tax reform in 2000. Kramer summarizes in his assessment as follows – again literal quote –: The consolidation measures took place and from the beginning of 2001 "especially those with lower (not necessarily the lowest) and medium incomes", which appeared to be more favourable a year earlier. - Quote. This is a literal quote from Helmut Kramer! – So don’t keep talking about the fact that there’s no trouble there, read it and you won’t be able to resist it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister! In your current speech, you have once again pointed out how positive this tax reform is actually being seen internationally. It is also praisefully underlined in the report of the Committee on Budgets that internationally renowned consultants are being used to implement structural budget rehabilitation measures. We know the advisors of the World Bank, the Monetary Fund or Booz Allen and other consultants; for this we know the nonplusultra, but nothing else. The heart of politics is certainly not to be found on this side, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me, it is at least a fact that the 2001 draft budget makes it possible to reduce the deficit only because, again, there are mainly increases on the revenue side. 1.9% increase in revenue is recorded. Mr Finanzminister! You have rightly referred to the wage tax, but you have not announced a reduction in the wage tax, as was the case with the employers, for example, which you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have again today signaled that, although they have to pay more in the short term, these additional expenditures will be recovered. I call for the same repayment as for employers, ladies and gentlemen, for workers who have to bear the main burden of this reorganisation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me, the 2002 budget is the continuation of the revenue recovery, and there are many examples of this: Neither in the economic field, nor in the social sphere, nor in education policy, can we see anything other than balance fetishism. We need a different budgetary policy! Despite the research billions – starting in 2001, in the next few years 7 billion schilling – it is a fact that in the 2002 budget chapters 14, 63 and 65 of the 2002 budget, it is simply the approach of the 2001 budget and we cannot really achieve the 2.5 percent target of research expenditure in terms of GDP. The field of education has also been discussed. I have the honour of being able to sit in a university advisory board. A few days ago I heard the budget forecast and development there, but also the problems. The fact is that staff expenditure is frozen at universities, the fact is that the investment donation is insufficient for basic improvements. And believe me, especially in the field of technology, we would need more innovation than is now financially possible. Another fact is that while professional universities are supported, the requirements imposed on them are far too low. Federal Chancellor! They have today reported on the results of the Stockholm European Council. In Stockholm, among other things, it was also discussed how to keep 10 percent of the working population of a country permanently in education until 2005 and until 2010. I ask you, Federal Chancellor: How does this actually fit in with the budgetary developments if the financial resources for continuing training continue to be frozen? How will we succeed in halting the development of calling people from a certain age unqualified for the labour market, by removing more than 15 billion schilling from the AMS and bringing them to the budget? – I think these are the contradictions that are very clear and clear in this budget. The infrastructure sector was also addressed. – In the 2002 budget, there are 900 million schillings less resources for the ÖBB infrastructure, not to mention other areas. So we say on the one hand, social security does not balance, and on the other On the other hand, the Minister of Finance says to the representatives of the main association – salopp said: I prefer it, you're in debt, so I'm not giving you back the 1.3 billion schilling I owe you because of the lost VAT, and I'm putting it in my budget! – This cannot be reorganised, and this cannot be seen as a proper budgeting, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I come very consciously again to talk about the problem of accident pensions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Her top candidate in Vienna was asked last Sunday before the election result was known: What has been the most depressing experience for you in the election campaign? He said – I quote literally –: I explained to a woman the sense of accident pension taxation. Then she put her husband's amputated hands under my nose. I was totally helpless. That's evidence of social cold! This is due to a policy that should not be continued! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, do not pretend that the budget would be reduced only on the expenditure side. They have taken enormously into the pot of small and medium-sized incomes. They have taken enormously into the pockets of people, especially those who now have to take losses due to the accident pension tax. The Minister of Finance said there was no reduction. I would have liked to have provided him with all the wages we received from pensioners and accident pensioners – not two! – which proves the opposite. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker]] It will also be interesting how to solve the ambulance fee problem. [[Abg. Böhacker: Good!]] I would be interested in the following: What answer do you give someone who has a blind arm breakthrough, is immediately taken in a hospital and goes into the ambulance a week later to get the sewing out? If he pays 250 s, does he pay 150 s, or does he pay nothing at all? That's the question! [[Abg. Böhacker: Why doesn't he go to the house doctor?]] Because the doctor assigned him automatically. – You will have to give the answer, and you will experience the next chaos. On your question, Mr Böhacker: Why doesn't he go to the house doctor? Maybe the patient gets the answer: The family doctor isn't here at all on the weekend! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Böhacker.]] - He'll definitely get it out there. He can go there on Saturday. Believe me, I know that a little bit. On Saturday he can go there and let it do it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The balance between the structure of the budget deficit reduction is the main criticism that social democracy is calling for here. The criticism of this government does not refer so much to the budget, but to the deficits in social benefits, distribution justice and a socially balanced income tax and interest rate policy. I repeat this for the x-th time here: They were insanely quick – after the slogan "Speed kills" – in social expenditure. You quickly knew what you need to reduce. Since the previous year, I – and I am not tired of demanding that – demand a report on fiscal justice. Where is the report on the reliability of taxes in Austria? Who pays which taxes? Who will benefit from this tax system? That is the answer we call for from you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7404	Next item is Mrs Wolfmayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7426	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwalt! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! I don't really want to continue the endless Hickhack: The art budget is far too small, I shout at the opposition, which I do not vote against. I would rather come to an objective level and mention the figures underlying the art budget. I would like to talk about what has already been done and about what is going to be done – despite larmoyant verbal attacks on the work of this government at press conferences. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] – No, Mr Cap, from your side! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: The Haider is going to the government!]] [[Abg. Edeller: The Haider is shuddering at the government!]] In my comparison to a well-known picture of psychology, which I think can be very well applied to the art budget, namely that of the famous glass of water. I claim it's half full, and leave it to the opposition to continue to pity it as half empty. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] The content remains unchanged as far as the quantity is concerned. Now to the figures: For 2002, total expenditure in the field of art amounting to 220.2 million y will be made available in the 2002 budget. Compared to the year 2000, there is a continuous increase, which represents a total of around 4.3 million y. The Federal Budget is the first one in euro, and because we may not be able to convert as quickly as possible, I would rather call the figures in our still used schilling amounts. Thus, about 3 billion schillings are available. Of these 1,138 789 billion schillings are planned for the art budget – some 25 million schillings more than this year – and 1,891 229 billion for the Bundestheater. The lion's share of growth is due to promotions and art purchases and to various re-transpositions. Overall, the art budget has an increase of 4.7 percent in the narrower sense compared to 2000. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This means, ladies and gentlemen, a clear and disproportionate increase; and this is particularly remarkable in comparison with other budget areas and a sign of how high Austrian culture and art are assessed by this federal government, and this also in a savings budget. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is due to the excellent and responsible work of a State Secretary, who can also point to few changes that have already been made. Some of them were known to have been postponed for years, for decades, and could not be overcome. Finally, there are solutions. I would like to give you the following examples: That's how all major funding cases became – I emphasize: everyone! – already done in the first quarter. An undisputed great merit is also the rescue of the "Josefstadt" and the Konzerthaus – probably one of the biggest mortgages that had to take over the art section. In addition, there were increases in direct promotions. Example – I know it very well –: Increases in scholarships in the field of literature. The federal scholarships were increased to a total of 20. There was also an increase in factory scholarships. All in all, there is now more money for the individual, instead of 15 000 now 18 000 p. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, there is a second Robert Musil scholarship. There are also tax reliefs for artists. As they have irregular incomes, there is now the possibility of distributing their incomes over three years, including retroactively. In addition, there is a multi-annual funding commitment. The Vienna model is to be implemented at the federal level. That's planned now. This is very important for the planning of the events. Further examples: the artist social insurance, which is a foundation for a practical long-term solution to the social security of artists, the development of galleries, which is an exemplary model, and as the first success of this period of government, which is also especially dear to me, the book award binding. In this context, I would not like to mention: Our model is considered so exemplary that Belgium and Italy have followed suit. We have received praise from the European side for our model. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, as a recent sign of a very skillful and wise procedure, the extension of the contract – you may have read about it – was mentioned by Ioan Holder. This was done at the initiative of our State Secretary Franz Morak. In fact, Ioan Holder has proved that he conducts the state opera in every respect, namely economically, artistically and in a human manner, and in this way further pre-planning is ensured for the two anniversary years 2005 and 2006. Ladies and gentlemen! The way in which our State Secretary of State for Art works and serves is different from that of his predecessor. [[Abg. Auer: Far better!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Better!]] So nothing is promised in advance, which extra-budgetary must be covered. At first, funds are being sought for special projects, then they are promised. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So it was in the case of the uplifting of the funds – I can now only mention the three most important examples – for the Kunsthaus Graz, for the reconstruction of the Festspielhaus, for the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, structures are also corrected. What government would fail to use its design possibilities? Thus, some things are to be changed, and some departments that have enjoyed their existence for a long time have to be evaluated, just like any other company. Now we're investigating: What do you need, what can be saved, and where can the resources obtained be used more effectively? Of course, yes, these questions must finally be asked. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now, for example, the department "Child and Youth Literature" of the "Literatur" department, or to create a unit instead of a separate department, in which I really can't see the fall of the evening country. In that, too, the youth film department of the film department, I see a lot of meaning. The conclusion that in principle less value would be placed on these areas and that, above all, less financial resources would be spent on them is certainly not automatically implied, as the practice will prove and will continue to prove. I really don't ask you to keep painting the devil on the wall! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As we know, panic and insecurity are nothing but political tactics, and this is lifted by continuous work, which does not have to be seen constantly glaring in the spotlight. Especially those artists who are mainly concerned about their artistic work and less about day-to-day policy – we know this problem – are, however, constantly insecured by rumors and false claims and react to targeted false reports, sometimes also aggressive. This is also quite clear when claims such as "the art budget is getting smaller and smaller, the state does nothing for its artists" and so on are repeated in prayer, even if they are wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] I claim – and not without satisfaction, ladies and gentlemen – that is pointless, because so much evidence of prudent planning, of stage victories, of structurality and of clumsy action speaks for itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There are ambitious projects, there are successes, there are ongoing discussions with artists, with cultural initiatives and institutions, and there are answers. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not to be shaken: We have a good State Secretary for Art, who manages a well-structured art budget wisely. And for that I also thank myself on behalf of many of my fellow artists.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7585	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7606	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr. Federal Chancellor! – It’s a shame that he’s going right now when I come to speak. – Mr Finz, State Secretary! Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs Wolfmayr, you don't need to paint the devil on the wall at all, neither does the opposition, it's enough if you paint the numbers on the wall – that is, symbolically – as far as the promotion of art and culture is concerned, because they're afraid enough, because you really don't need the devil. But in my speech, I do not want to evaluate the art and culture budget, but I intend to deal with other topics. First of all, I would like to give the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany an answer to something he said in connection with the integration of foreign citizens. He is not here now, but for that he has a State Secretary who represents him, and he will hopefully judge what has been said on his speeches. The Federal Chancellor referred to the following: We have properly, properly and peacefully integrated, and I am proud of that! – That was exactly his words. "The ordinary integration of foreign citizens": That's his choice of words, that's his semantics, and I don't want to comment on that either. I would, however, like to say to you, Mr State Secretary, as the current representative of the Federal Chancellor: If you think that there is a proper integration of foreign citizens, even though there is still no passive right of business council election in Austria for foreign citizens, even though it is still such that access to social housing for foreign taxpayers is not granted, although family integration in Austria is hindered by quotas – that is, foreign families do not have the legal rights in accordance with the ECHR like domestic families – and although there is a restriction on federal support for refugees, i.e. asylum seekers and asylum seekers, because the amounts for it are getting smaller and smaller, then you will be unaware of it. I would not be able and willing to be proud of such a thing! Now, on a few examples, only a few small points have been raised on the issue of the integration of foreign citizens and on what is done by the state, and a few words also to support this, not only in financial terms, but also in terms of what is being done at the legal level in this area – of course, taking into account the majority of the issues here in the House. The Citizenship Act – it was not this government that decided but the old government, but also the ÖVP, although it sometimes does not like to remember it anymore – is not an instrument for the integration of foreign citizens according to the understanding that there is international, which clearly shows a comparison. Since the Federal Chancellor is no longer present and therefore I cannot enter into a dialogue with him directly, I would just like to make one more comment: I'm really more nervous now than I am now when Christian-social politicians constantly lead the sentence in their mouths: Whoever lives here will be able to work! That is exactly what the Christian-Social Chancellor has said since his start of government – but nothing of this has yet been implemented! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I know, Mr State Secretary, except for the closed Freedom Party, no one who opposes this principle. "Whoever lives here is also allowed to work here" - I say "must" - because whether he can find a job is on another sheet, which applies to domestic and foreign workers alike who are affected by unemployment or by the non-finding of a job. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I say: We do not measure you in words, but in deeds! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But there is a lack of action in this area! You're missing. [[New condolences with the greens.]] There's a little too little when you say: Au-pairs may now come to Austria from all countries of the world for up to 28 years and are not subject to the quota of the Foreign Employment Act! – This is a measure that will take place next week, exactly from 1. April 2001, will enter into force. In principle, I also welcome this measure, namely that au pair forces coming to Austria do not fall into the quota, because I think the idea of learning languages and getting to know other cultures in this way is great, but the danger behind it is that, if they are strictly quoted in accordance with the Foreign Employment Act, of course, in the case of other foreigners standing above this au pair status, they will simply be invited to abuse. We will, of course, observe closely the countries with which this exchange of languages will take place in the first place. - But that's just a side-by-side remark. Mr State Secretary! Corrections To the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: Talking alone is too little. Acting would be appropriate in relation to legal life, living and work. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now, on the actual point, Mr State Secretary, on the promotion of groups and on the money available to the groups. As a minority spokesperson of an opposition party, I – of course, I would almost say – have been not satisfied for years with the objective facts that we are faced with, but at the same time I must say that, since I am a Member of Parliament and have held this role as a minority speaker, it has given quite a remarkable increase in the national budget, which has given general support to groups, which is now at least 51.8 million schilling. [[State Secretary Morak: This has remained the same!]] Ten years ago, this was just a few million schillings. So that's okay. This budget was not reduced either last year, but yet millions are missing, which do not benefit from the general public funding as a whole, because there is no longer all the money that is available to support private groups of radios. – Mr State Secretary! There's no more! However, I am correct and do not include this in the general promotion of the groups, because if I did, it would be embarrassing for you, because then it would be obvious that the promotion of the groups in general has been reduced by quite a few percent. But this is a chapter of my own that I am still coming to because new insights have emerged in this regard as regards the promotion of private radios as a whole. However, I would particularly like to address the aspect of non-increased support for groups, because we are in a new age of national groups, Mr State Secretary, and this new age has called this Federal Government or the National Council unanimously last year. We are now in the age in which a state objective expresses the commitment to the cultural and linguistic diversity of this country. Ladies and gentlemen! But those are just words again, in this case on paper. [[Abg. Kiss: That's not right! Such an illogical thing!]] The budget doesn't express this in any way, because the popular promotion is how you whispered to me – not whispered, but as you told me aloud, but I'm louder by the microphone – I stayed right away. Please, that means to me: If the budget is in figures, then this figure for the promotion of groups is the expression of absolute inability, because this policy of confession to cultural and linguistic diversity is not recognizable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Otherwise, the promotion of the ethnic groups could not have been frozen at the low level in 2001 – it was not increased between 2000 and 2001. For me, it's a failure! That's just a confession. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Interlocutory remark by Secretary-General Morak.]] I now come to an intermediate point because the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate are here and because the Secretary of State gives us the honour. The People's Procuratorate and its occupation mode, ladies and gentlemen, is a time of democracy policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I remind you – the few who are still here – once: How will the ladies and gentlemen of the public prosecutorship be ordered in Austria? You really can't talk about "chosen". There is a Constitutional Law, which was passed in the 1970s, which reads: The three largest parties represented in the National Council's main committee have a right of nomination. – The three biggest parties, do you know what that means? At a time when there were only three, they wrote in: the three biggest. So much to understand. The three largest parties make a proposal in the main committee, and then the National Council could theoretically say: We refuse. But that's not a choice, it's a nomination proposal, and that's all done. – At that time it was a gift from Kreisky to the Freemans. This government – I never expected the Social Democrats to change it – which in a tour speaks of nothing other than privileges that need to be dismantled, and of the outcast – I do not want to use the drastic words of the "simple party member" from Carinthia – is suddenly entirely satisfied with the regulation at the People's Procuratorate. [[Abg. Böhacker: Your colleague was missing out!]] We are all quite satisfied, because there are three attractive posts to occupy, and in this mode we remain that the three biggest ones give themselves an attractive position, and that is what it is all about. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This has nothing to do with my assessment of the importance of the public prosecutor's office and of my or our satisfaction with the work of the public prosecutor's office. Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers in the field of the law – that is, in the area of legal order – are doing excellent work in the area of the law, and this is getting smaller and smaller, because more and more is being distributed. They do this work without showing a Party political tendency – in order to be careful. In doing so, You're our highest appreciation! But the way in which the ladies and gentlemen are sent to the People's Procuratorate is a demonstration of democracy in poverty. [[Abg. Großruck: These are competent people! You'll never do that!]] And the Federal Government – with the majority relationship it has – is called upon to lead itself to this once. But now I come to the last point, Mr Media State Secretary Morak, and this is an issue that we have already discussed here this week, namely the situation of the ORF. [[Abg. Auer: It's gonna be high time!]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Go, go!]] This situation is therefore dramatic – but Mr State Secretary! – because the problem, which was introduced last year by the Federal Government, remains: the withdrawal of program fees, which the ORF has through the fact that it does not receive compensation for the exemption from fees. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: Not at all!]] This is not a small amount, since it is about 600 to 700 million schilling, which have been taken away from the ORF and are taken away further and missing it to fulfill its mission as a public-law institution and to implement it, ladies and gentlemen. You don't only damage the ORF itself, it's much worse – that's what's essential – with this process, you're also damaging the Austrian film industry, which is really not being ordered rosy. With the current low support and support and the low public reserve the film industry has, it is so weakened that even 10 percent of this amount of 600 million schilling, i.e. 60 million schilling, is existential for the film industry. And that's just one aspect. But the Austrian Federal Government continues to maintain this system, which is so comedy. And the TVs are being taxed in Austria. The citizens who pay program fees believe that if they pay this "television and radio fee" – it is said in the folk mouth – they will give it to the ORF to design a decent, good, interesting programme that is attractive to the seers. Do you know how much the ORF gets from this program fee? – Only 66 percent! 66 percent receives the ORF, and the rest goes right back to the bag of the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Grandruck: But go!]] That's nothing but simple taxes! First of all, this is a mistake and second of all also an acute weakening of the ORF, if one does not adequately compensate for the exemption of fees and thus also also teaches him a weakening. If I still have time to talk – but this is unfortunately to the end – then I could explain very precisely how bad the ORF is compared to other public broadcasting organizations and that under these conditions it cannot be competitive if it is constantly deprived of money and thus taken the opportunity to fulfil the legal mandate. But, Mr Morak, you are the Secretary of the Media, and you have the opportunity to change these things. You would have the opportunity to increase the identification with the so-called television and broadcasting fee by... – Now he's gone; no, he's back there. [[The speaker turned back to the government bank.]] He hears everything. Mr State Secretary! You are invited to take appropriate measures here, because, unlike you, Austrian radio, both radio and television, we are very much worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7820	I use this now to tell you, Madam Member: You have voluntarily chosen 10 minutes of speaking time. You're over 15 minutes now. The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e7844	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Just a few minutes ago, or just an hour ago, colleagues Verzellnich and Edlinger once again showed us that in the SPÖ the left does not seem to know what the rights want. A wage tax reduction has previously been requested, and about an hour ago, Mr Edlinger warned the government against making electoral promises and announcing tax reductions, because this would put sustainable budget adjustment in jeopardy. [[Abg. Silhavy: Vergestnitsch has demanded a compensation!]] So what do you want from the SPÖ now? I see exactly, you pull on a strand, but in different directions! And so was the policy of the Social Democrats in the last decades. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Even if it doesn't fit you: With this 2002 budget, another chapter in the success story of the budget renewal is written under a Minister of Finance. With the budgets 2000, 2001 and 2002 a lot will be done in three years – not everything yet! – Rehabilitated by what socialist finance ministers have managed in Austria for 30 years. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You've already given this speech!]] And thanks also apply to the citizens of Austria, who make a significant contribution to this budget renewal. This 2002 budget will also further increase the attractiveness of Austria's economic location and ensure sustainable, thus creating the basis for full employment in Austria in the future. We already have a high level of employment. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You've already given this speech!]] However, this budget also creates those conditions and scopes to be able to counter a business cycle quickly and decisively. And if the economic data may be revised in a moderate way tomorrow, then this budget will provide for it accordingly. With the introduction of child benefits, i.e. the redemption of a central free choice promise, and with the increase of family support, a milestone in family and women's policy in Austria will truly be set. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Hallelujah!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, must explain to the women and the families why you are against this procedure. In any case, we will never let you break this measure. Overall, the budgetary policy of this government, this "new governance" towards a modern Austria, is geared towards increasing prosperity for all. And that, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you will not be able to prevent either. [[Abg. Eder: Don't you read Haider? Read Haider!]] The opposition, which has always announced that it wants to cooperate constructively and does not make a fundamental opposition, has so far not made a single active, positive proposal with its first three speakers. Mr Kogler will be right. Have you heard from SPÖ a positive proposal? - I didn't hear anyone. Mr Kogler, you will remember: In the Committee on Budgets, Minister for Finance, D. Edlinger, said: We will have a minority report drawn up and prepared. – I read it through, of course. [[Abg. Eder: But don't understand! Don't understand!]] - And what, please, stand in there? – Not a single suitable proposal for a positive solution to your old budget problems! On the contrary! But I have to say: This minority report is in itself incredibly valuable. Why? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Because he's not yours!]] – Because it is an almost complete inventory of the failures of the socialists of the past 30 years. The failures were almost completely listed here. But you didn't do anything. Also with all kinds of benevolence: If you really read this minority report, you can only find out: It is characterized by black painting, a dump of fear and contradictions with public statements. I would like to say that he is a depressing minority report. [[Abg. Eder: You are quite depressive, Mr. Cot!]] What is left of the opposition proposals in the budget hearing? What does the expert of the Greens have, Mr Mag? Rossmann? What else can we do? – Tax increases, reintroduction of property tax, increase in inheritance and gift taxes, increase in savings account taxes, and as a "jolly joker" of the opposition – whether red or green – it has been said that the foundation tax must be increased enormously. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, and?]] Is it true, Mr. Collegue? First of all Mr. Ex-Minister Edlinger said that the tax on the foundation should be increased. The ÖGB, the Chamber of Workers, the Hagenhofers, the Vergestnychs and the Nurembergers, they all demanded that the Foundation tax be increased! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Eder: The billions of the Princehorn belong taxed!]] They forget, however, that SPÖ has introduced the foundation tax. I am going to help you a little bit on this point. It is a shame that Mr Edlinger is not here because he is always talking about the bad short-term memory of the ÖVP. I sent a written request to Edlinger, the then Minister of Finance, in 1999 for the tax on the foundation. To remember, to refresh your memory, I will now bring you some passages from the answer. Edlinger answered – I quote: "The tax treatment of the private fund and its beneficiaries is systematically regulated in such a way that the overall level of taxation... of a natural person who achieves comparable income does not go beyond that." – According to Edlinger, everything is fine with the private funding tax. And Edlinger also wrote: "It is therefore not possible to speak of a privilege of the Foundation beneficiaries and the mouse trap effect mentioned in the literature on Austrian tax law in this regard is not entirely inappropriate." – Edlinger even warns against going to the foundation, because there may be more to pay. It also says: Moreover, in the context of the moderate gift tax rate, it should not be overlooked that a transfer of assets by a private funding does not bring any tax advantage. – Original quoted Edlinger. Other original quote Edlinger: "The equality of beneficiaries of a private fund with taxpayers who achieve savings bank interest rates, securities income and dividends is already given," says Edlinger. "More steps are therefore not necessary," says Edlinger. – Yes, what do you want? Do you not know what you have already said? On one point, however, Mr Edlinger was already a bit ready to talk about the 2.5 percent tax rate. There he was ready to talk. He literally said: "However, this should be done with a great deal of attention in order to avoid departures abroad. As there is no European minimum taxation for foundations, there is a particularly sharp tax competition in this area". And then he still sums up, puts one more on it to tax the foundation and writes: "I" – "Klemmer auf –, Rudolf Edlinger – Klemmer" – "don't see any... in connection with the general scheme of private funding tax law. Need for change." - Quote. That's what the nobleman who's going through the country says and explains that the increased tax on the foundation would clean up the budget! This is the double-dwelling and the dual-dwelling of the SPÖ! It is also clear what Mr. Ex-Minister Edlinger has always been: the socialist protective cover madonna of the foundation billionaires. I would not like to ask why he has been doing this activity in this way. But there are still many examples that show that ex-minister Edlinger and the Social Democrats have made a tax policy for the great, according to the motto: The big ones can judge it, the little ones should be sheeting! - But we won't be there.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8059	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8080	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! I would like to go over to the Supreme institutions in the debate and deal with the issue, such as the government, how the majority in this House deals with Parliament in general and the opposition in particular. Some time ago, when we called for an in-depth debate on a law in the Constitutional Committee and the government groups said that the negotiations before it had already shown that we were not interested in a debate, and therefore they did not take place in committee at all, I said to the Secretary of State: We are ready to reply here and today. – And he answered me appropriately with a quote from "Faust. – The tragedy first part: "I hear the message well, I alone lack faith." And if you ask yourself how the government is going, then perhaps it is – to stick to the quotations, Mr. State Secretary – that method that Hamlet also sees in it, namely that you may actually be doing here, as some proverbs or types of speech say. For example, "Fresh, bird, or die!" be the motto under which you treat the opposition when it comes to questions of the two-thirds majority, the Treaty of Nice and other things. Contrary to the principle of negotiating and striving to obtain the two-thirds majority of issues requiring a constitutional majority, you assume: The opposition will remain nothing but consent. We do not negotiate, we call a negotiation just in advance "packling" or "negotiating a political price", we cheat and do not talk. We do not live up to the principle that a government should take into account: to make an effort, especially on constitutional issues, on issues requiring a two-thirds majority to find a consensus, to find a means to see how to involve everyone. For that reason, the party discussion with the smallest group in this House, namely the Greens, will not be conducted at all, because they alone cannot offer you the two-thirds majority. Another saying is: Don't even look like it. Don't even remember the sham when it comes to templates in this house – whether it's the ambulance charges now or whether it was the law on the "KommAustria". Not even the appearance is kept, but it is presented, it is referred to without being published. They do not even make the effort to check that this procedure is not all right. And another saying says that one presents someone with perfect facts. - That's what you're doing! That's how you deal with us in essential questions. Neutrality – a Constitutional Act: We are willing to talk to you about this. - No, you don't! They pack so little things into some laws, which you want to quickly push through – just like now – and you hope to be able to sneak neutrality away, then one day to use the argument against them, that it is actually no longer present. This is not a democratic principle, it is an undemocratic principle, if in one Parliament, in one democracy, one only presents the other with completed facts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] "Speed kills" – they speak of "speed kills". It has already been pointed out today that the right translation is more and more "husch-puch" or "driving". They take time and take it to Parliament. They allow themselves and take them in democratic treatment. ORF Act: You're gonna make a puncture. The punctuation is being discussed, but the law is not yet in place. As far as advice is concerned, you say that the law will be properly consulted. – Well, that won't go out! They set a final point in some questions, but a subcommittee in which real advice can be given, in which real experts can be heard, will then be no longer possible. And so it is with all the projects. I do not think that since the saying is true that the lazy will not work until the evening, but you will make it aware that there is no way to bring things in here or to discuss them publicly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] – Yes, I come to it, colleague. Another saying is that of faithfulness and faith. I would just like to remind you of how you have failed to comply with this principle in the matter of Fuhrmann and other questions. I say that, Mr President, neither sad nor whiting. I am not depressed, I say that only, because I believe – and this is what we have to say in the budget chapter of the Supreme Institutions, when we also find out about Parliament, the Federal Chancellor's Office – that it is not the right way to make such a legislation and deal with democracy and Parliament. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] And if you, Mr State Secretary - and with this I am putting an end to the sayings - listen so much to saying words, then I can only say to you about a government group: Don't look too early, it's not every day of the evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8180	The next speaker is Mr Zernatto. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8202	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Ladies and gentlemen! If I certainly don't have as many proverbs in stock as my previous speaker, colleague Schieder, I find myself as a proverb that could stand over this whole discussion – if I don't remember the speech of my predecessor here, but what was said by the opposition in the general debate today – the old-known "Wash the fur, but don't make me wet!" ................................................................................................ But, ladies and gentlemen, it is no wonder that I myself had the pleasure of being a financial referent in a state government for over five years, and I also had a budget consolidation there. [[Abg. May. Posch: It looks different in Carinthia!]] When I hear "Total opposition" and the like, Even then, this was argued, but from a different point of view, but I say quite frankly to you: There is no fiscal consolidation that would not be faced with a total opposition, because it is now in the nature of democracy that the budget is undoubtedly the most essential law of every year. The budget is also, and above all, the policy put forward in figures and represents a government's political strategy cast in figures. That this cannot happen to the opposition's consent and that it must therefore, with all its resources, make every effort to make this budget look poor, is something that is quite natural. But, ladies and gentlemen, because I have this experience, I also need a certain objectivity, which is not exclusively – although certainly to some extent – borne by party policy considerations. Ladies and gentlemen! This government or the Minister of Finance has certainly not acted heartlessly when he has drawn up these budgets. [[Abg. Leikam: That's what the Haider said!]] Whoever said that is irrelevant! I say he's not heartless. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is not irrelevant!]] It is surprising that the word "heart" triggers so great emotions. But it is no wonder, ladies and gentlemen, because it is already a matter of heart to really pursue a consolidation policy and, above all, to address it with consistency. And that's this government, and this has been excellently successful for this Minister of Finance so far. In this connection, I would like to quote Mr Böhacker, who rightly pointed out with what great spirit Rudi Edlinger announced at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets on the financial chapter that he would like to put on the table the alternatives to the opposition, the alternatives of social democracy. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kiss.]] It was regretted at the time that this did not happen in the run-up to the time when the budget was being set up, because then one could have put that dialogue requested by fellow arbitrators to the test, but dialogue in connection with the preparation of this budget, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, was not possible. That's why I'm saying: What this government has so far shown when looking at economic data, when looking at employment figures, when looking at the labour market situation, cannot be so bad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] When Mr Edlinger, with whom I really have an old collegiate union, finally comes to the conclusion when his alternative to the budget of this federal government comes to an end: Stop saving! Then that's clearly too little. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: And make debt again!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is certainly not our way, and that is what we are doing, because, as far as I remember at least, there was clarity across all political groups a year ago, because it is essential to reform it, it is essential to consolidate it in order to get away from the final light position in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important not only to think about the present, but also to feel the responsibility of including future generations in his reflections when it comes to budget creation. That is why consolidation is important and necessary, and I therefore thank the Federal Government for putting these measures into practice, even if it is unpopular. At the same time, however, I urge them not to let themselves be hurt in this way, wherever the calls may come from.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8318	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8339	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are now discussing the 2002 budget, we need to be aware that this is the last possible correction before the 2003 budget, which will then already be a "election budget", and that the course is now set for a relatively long time. What we have always tried to address, and what always goes down completely in this debate, especially from your side, is the attempt to discuss certain content priorities. We have tried it in the field of education, research, science, and I am now trying to do it again in a very important area for me, even for the economy extremely important: the whole creative sector. If today the "standard" writes: "Sport is doping for the economy," I would like you to say: Culture is doping for the economy. And if, on average, the sport is creating a value added of 1.48 S, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, but also the Chancellor, whether they do not know what value creation in Austria is producing an investment in art and culture. I ask you: You know that? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's 4 p. The Austrian music industry produces more than the Austrian steel industry. With the film industry, which is booming across Europe and where the competition for the media locations for the future is currently taking place, Austria is absolutely final, in all categories. Whether this is the number of employees, whether it is the amount of money invested, whether it is the amount of value added – with all the sums in the creative sector, we are already behind Greece and Portugal. That's a real evidence of poverty! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Internationally, globally, the creative economy has second place behind the automotive industry. I would also like to address colleague Wolfmayr; I am no longer going to vote in this usual "lied" today – it is justified, but I am no longer doing so today – with the to-de-de-curse of institutions, but I really want to address this far-reaching creative economy today. It is indeed true that a country like Luxembourg – Luxembourg is really very small – spends more for the film industry than Austria. It is indeed true that Bavaria spends four times as much on the creative industry/film industry as Austria. We have not only been dependent on cities such as Berlin and Cologne as metropolises in this area for miles, but we are even now driving Austrian creative people to Prague and Budapest, because there are no more appropriate technical possibilities for us to invest in this area. And that's really a crazy opportunity that's looking for the same. Last week the "Diagonale" took place in Graz. It was very clearly directed by the filmmakers, the film industry – for the first time, the Secretary of State was not there, nor any other member of the government – that this is a black hole for contemporary art and culture that has enormous economic impact. If 100 million Schillings were decided yesterday for military night vision devices and one knows that only 106 million Schilling is left for the Austrian film industry in this art-saving budget, then I am just sad. And if Mrs. Wolfmayr says it's "painting the devil on the wall," that's panic, I ask you: Isn't it really sad that we don't even spend as much on this creative area as on night vision devices for the federal army? Isn't that absurd? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is particularly absurd because the Austrian Government Convention speaks of a priority programme for Austrian film: through the use of funding, provision of risk capital, coordination with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. In fact, it is also an economic promotion. And do you know what's incredible? The Ministry of Economic Affairs has had the Austrian film creators and the film industry selected: You're not getting an appointment. We don't talk to you, because there are some people with you who are against the government. – I really find that unheard of. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is an illegal use of capital belonging to the economy and not Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein! That's really unheard of! [[Abg. Großruck: Who said that?]] Two points relating to the film industry. It is a huge booming market throughout Europe. We know that we are final in this area, we are about to be overtaken by our Central and Eastern European neighbours. Cities such as Prague and Budapest are in the opening holes. This focus announced in the government programme is implemented in such a way that we have a minute of a few million schilling in the current actual budget. This is due to a short-sightedness, and it is simply not understandable to me how to miss out on this huge chance and this future resource creativity that exists in Austria. The Austrian films clear off at every festival. Mr. Morak says that such films as "The Attack", which is very popular, in which Düringer plays – although not quite my case, but please – which is a very successful film, have no chance in the German-speaking market. - What was it? A few months later, at the largest festivals in Germany, he cleared two big prizes. Your answer, Mr Morak, was always: We should cooperate with foreign film teams. If there is no Austrian capital, then the money that lies on the streets in Germany for co-productions and which is only to be picked up is rejected. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we are not even able to benefit from these existing opportunities, such as other countries such as Finland or Sweden, which have such great international successes, Lars von Trier et cetera, which represent language islands – we have the huge German-speaking market at our disposal! – then economic policy is really hardy and extremely bad. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Castor transport!]] It hurts me so much that there is so little priority for a future resource such as creativity and filmmaking in Austria. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Castor transport!]] A final word about the art budget itself to present the figures from our point of view. It is a frozen budget... – Can [[Abg. Haigermoser: Castor transport! Joschka Fischer, Trittin!]] Please be quiet! I'm really nervous about that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: No!]] I'm talking about the film industry now! We can then still discuss nuclear power and so on, really with pleasure, but let me now talk to the film industry finished! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The "swallow" always!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: I won't be quiet!]] Please speak and explain to me why you no longer want to invest in the film industry! I'd be really interested. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: In what?]] With a value added of 4 S per invested schilling! [[Abg. Haigermoser: What?]] I don't understand, that's totally incomprehensible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] No, Mr Gaugg! May I explain it to you again briefly per invested Schilling 4 S value added! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Please me too!]] The Austrian economy screams: We need more investment in football Ems! – and I don't know what. This is all beautiful and good, but I also want this consciousness for the cultural area. You know the Austrian movies. – Haven You've never seen an Austrian movie before? They're extremely successful. The Austrian television viewers love Austrian films – much more than Hollywood blockbusters – which have a much higher quota! I don't think to use such a thing, it's not just shortsightedness, it's white stupidity. I just don't understand. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's economic stupidity!; otherwise you can't express it. At the end of the day, once again: The artificial budget is frozen to a level of minus 10 percent compared to 1999. Since then, no more gross has been added. There are no priorities for New Media, Film, Creative Economy. All that has been announced has not happened. I have not been aware of it now, because we have already discussed a lot about it, talking about political attitudes as a criterion for funding, and all that is happening in the Morak resort, all that commentators have written in recent days and weeks, how Morak deals with his "enemys" with his – under quotation marks – and also there would be a lot to say about that. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] But if you force me, Like Morak's decisions – the great cowardice before the enemy. Write comments: The transparency of decisions is a new quality compared to what it was before. Further: The budget-based subsidy cuts are now followed by the ideology-related. I really didn't want to talk about all this today, but I wanted to do something constructive and talk about the creative economy, but unfortunately this is simply not possible with you and your shortsightedness.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8575	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8596	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Lady Volksanwärtstin Krammer! Mr. Volksanwalt Schender! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If Mrs Glawischnig knew in how many areas the cultural thinking of the liberals covered with her remarks, she would be surprised. She should also listen to us, then she would insist that it is quite possible to find a consensus. Mrs Glawischnig! If you make allegations here, like, it would say someone would not talk to representatives of the film industry, because there are those people who have a different opinion than the government, then you must also call the name. Tell me who that is! This is something we deeply reject, we simply do not have it, because we find it quite commendable if there are different opinions. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As a general rule, on the third day of the sitting, there are massive resolutions here in the plenary session, with the most massively affected group being SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where were you until half an hour ago?]] There is still the President of the Civil Protection of Austria, who probably takes care of the two Carinthian Members Mertel and Leikam, who, if they do not sit in here, would have to be in Carinthia at their workplace. There they would be controlled by Captain Dr. Haider to see if they were doing something. That's why they prefer to sit here. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But the rest of the SPÖ Group seems to be striving for a municipal council seat in Vienna, because this is the only successful group of countries that will remain. I can tell you today, too. Don't praise the day before the evening! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Exactly!]] One needs to see one thing – and this is covered by many statements by my previous speakers, who have reflected the 2001/2002 budgets – namely that in Austria, it is of course that labour performance is taxed to a significant extent, is taxed too much in many areas. And there should and must be consideration of new ways of dealing with the issues of foundations and property tax. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] It cannot be said that, on the one hand, the fee for any overtime done by an employee, as it happens, of course, up to 50 per cent ends up in the pockets of the Minister of Finance, on the other hand, can be tax-freely increased, always with the argument: The capital is shy like a deer, you can't touch it, because then it's gone! I'll tell you one thing: In many areas, it is time and again recognizable how scharlatan is handled with money. I only mention the development of the international stock exchanges and the like. That is why my appeal to the Minister of Finance not to subordinate everything and to each of the black zeros. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Yes!]] As political mandates, we have the task not only of presenting a renovated budget but above all of making policies for people. That is the decisive! [[It is a pleasure for the liberals, as well as for representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo, colleague!]] Why this is so difficult, ladies and gentlemen, is the financial disaster that has left us a certain Mr Edlinger, with red locks for a few days now. It is he who ultimately has to answer that many of the measures that are painful that people in this country have to take, because they are necessary. This is not even what the representatives of the SPÖ want: that the Republic of Austria ends as the "consumer", namely in the pleite. It is necessary to take countermeasures. It is all the more strange that the SPÖ Group, under the leadership of ex-Finance Minister Edlinger, should become a minority report on the 2002 budget. It notes that the 2002 budget will be well-balanced, that although the federal government is still writing 11.5 billion schillings, the country's contribution will make the zero deficit achievable. That is a matter of a number of complaints! I must say that the ability of your Social Democratic Members to operate is greater than that of former Finance Minister Edlinger, because he is still committed to the debt policy he has made. Furthermore, as regards unemployment insurance, it is complained that funds are used here for the economic offensive. Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, thank God we have unemployment rates which allow these measures. Then, in an analysis of the expenditure structure of the federal government, it is actually more passive than anything essential, with the exception of child money. This has been generously written in. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, above all from Social Democracy! One of the biggest achievements in the social field is the introduction of child benefit. The introduction of child money brings our families twice as much money as before. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That would have been a great task for the SPÖ. Furthermore, you complain of the lower revenue or the lower investment of the Austrian Federal Railways. If you had not left such a "great" disaster in the ÖIAG's finances, cuts in these investment areas would not be necessary. To sum up, however, the 2002 budget is a budget that sets priorities for the future, accents on research and development, a budget which is also set and sufficient for infrastructure in public institutions. And the sickening of the SPÖ will keep you as a mirror, and I can only tell you one thing: They will experience that despite zero deficits in our country, social measures will get better again.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8719	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e8740	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a rare pleasure to speak to Mr Gaugg. Now you've already gotten used to the Carinthian tones, which will make it easier for you to understand me. [[Abg. Gaugg: Do you create – or what?]] – No, I'm just saying that the tones for Carinthia are symptomatic. Mys are no different, maybe less... [[Abg. Gaugg: So I'll keep my mind on it!]] Mr Gaugg said that, of course, he meant: If I did not sit here, I would have to sit at home in my workplace and be controlled by Mr Haider. You know, Mr Gaugg, I still have 25 percent to work. But against your work performance and your return to the bank for Carinthia, this bank has really successfully resisted, it has prevented you from returning. [[Abg. Gaugg: Are you happy about this, gel?]] So you can't do any other work at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: These are learned social democrats!]] The only thing I agree with is the statement: Politics for people. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No Carinthian solidarity, I must say!]] – What do you say, Mr Torquemada, Grand Inquisitor of the ÖVP and FPÖ? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No Carinthian solidarity!]] What do you mean, big inquisitor? May I continue? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But of course!]] Thank you. Politics for people. – I share this opinion. Mr Zernatto, who has already escaped, has made such binding, understanding sounds sound. Humanly, he is also personal. But the only thing that kept me in mind of his Carinthian policy is in Carinthia, "Lei let's go!". It's called Laissez-fair. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Laissez-fair – this is already hundreds of years old!]] The fact is that this House is presenting a budget which has serious general and structural shortcomings, such as negative redistribution effects, the burden of small and medium-sized incomes, a rapid increase in real wages – as 0.4 percent – of falling educational expenditure and income and growth are further weakened. They grab into the pockets and shrink ills, families, pensioners and students. They always use the keyword "Wend". You are right: They turn away. You turn away from the workers, you turn away from the little ones, the sick, the pensioners, the families, the students, the students, from education. They turn away. That's right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A word to the Supreme Organs. The budget movements are not spectacular compared to the previous year. The donation of the President's Office and the Constitutional Court remains almost the same. The Court's donation is better, it is much higher in the public prosecutor's office. I welcome this and we from the SPÖ. For the current democratic climate in our country, it is important to pay attention to top independent audit bodies, and we depend on them. Who would have had this government, this reverse government its dilettantism – it is difficult to pronounce this word, yes, Mrs Steibl, you always have difficulties – for example, that all the people can better keep this politicy in mind when it comes to ambulance fees than a decision of the Constitutional Court. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl]] It is not understandable for me to see the lower budget approach, the lower dosage at the administrative court, because the work attack is enormous there, the backlog is enormous, 8 795 files, i.e. a worrying burden situation, especially if one expects a recent flood of complaints in the drinking tax. In this area, an increase in resources would have been appropriate. On this point in the general debate, it was always customary to make a contribution to the debate on women's policy. Above all, I would like to do it because Mrs Rosemarie Bauer from the ÖVP, which is not in the hall – she is not in the Chamber at the moment, everyone has the right to go out briefly, you too have just come in, Mr Torquemada Khol – at the last budget debate on the 10th. In May 2000, "the women's ministry, the so-called women's ministry, has been converted into a genuine new women's ministry and the ministry of generations and now has much more power and sustainability". [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She's sorry!]] [[Abg. Donabauer: She's sick!]] In the meantime, this real new women's policy of the FPP Government has decided to impose massive burdens on women, causing and responsible for them, burdens on women entering all social sectors. These range from education, health care, pension provision to childcare facilities. Ten months after this speech, this statement and any expectations, should have put someone in the power of this women's policy, have proved to be a disastrous misevaluation. Now at the pace of this budget creation and the questionable quality of the figures in the budget. "Speed kills" – speed kills – lets everyone pull together in this country, since Klubobmann Khol has shaped these words. We have already heard today that it would be better to call the processes concerning the abolition of ambulance charges and your further action as "husch-puch". I'm not that view. I mean, "Speed kills" express exactly what is being done: It's about people, about the political opponent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But you of the ÖVP announced yesterday how the ambulance charges are to continue. The inventor of "Speed kills" Khol continues his way like a desert ship through the "Waste Gobi". If Mr Westenthaler has any associations in this word, he has them. Mrs. Riess-Passer still deceives the population when she says: We'll reduce the pace. – The opposite is the case: The pace will be increased. There is a deadline application for an ambulance fee. On the other hand, the government is not all the same. The FPÖ has been "pregnant" with the idea of children's check for years, I would almost say. The ÖVP has been home since 1998 with the idea of "karenz money for all". They agreed on the term "child care allowance" in February 2000. But the implementation Your ideas will be on 1. January 2002 was postponed. So promises will be settled late; disassembled, scraped, taken into the pockets of the members of small and medium-sized incomes will be immediately. [[Abg. Steibl: What did the SPÖ propose?]] Mrs Steibl, I am speaking, you can shout as much as you want. [[Abg. Steibl: I don't cry!]] You think you're not yelling, you're louder than I am, but I have some microphones in front of me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your project has been in existence for three years. But to this day you have not been able to develop a detailed model. They were unable to present calculations. This is so worrying, because we have now drawn up the 2002 budget, in which there are, in fact, only sham amounts. I can only join the words of Mr Schieder, who has brilliantd here with literature – it is really a remarkable achievement that you have found out everything, Peter – and say to Mr Finanzminister: Woe to him who lies! – He says that he was the first Minister of Finance who had never made use of a fund. In 1999/2000 he removed 15 billion schilling from the targeted family tax compensation fund. [[Abg. Steibl: To finance the ÖBB!]] He now takes out 15 billion schilling from unemployment insurance. – So much for the "belief" of the liberals and the black party. They have just entered into this budget so-called best-case numbers, estimated numbers. You're saying the babysitting money costs 13 billion schilling. The Minister of Finance today speaks of 16 billion schilling, Mr Schüssel speaks of 16 billion schilling, Mr. Haupt speaks of 13.4 billion at the beginning of the year and of 18 billion schilling in the final stage in 2003. The Chamber of Labour calculates the costs for the whole with 24 billion schilling. This means that besides many unknowns, you have added another unknown to the budget. So that's in the clear text: Here is a budget in which there is a cuckoo egg. [[Abg. Steibl: (keeping a record in height) An answer from the Federal Minister to you!]] Speed – speed – on the one hand, which leads to dilettantism, on the other hand, perfect lack of speed, for example in the removal of co-insurance. In September 2000 presented, set savings target 850 million Schilling, reportedly 100 000 persons affected. In November the whole thing was decided, but it was calculated significantly only now in March 2001, and not You have calculated it, but the affected and the journalists have predicted it to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The question arises whether you are able to learn at all. – I say no! An All - Time Appeal She won't be useful, but I'll do it. If you eventually put an end to the draft child care allowance, take time for the review procedure! Have conversations with people who are familiar with and understand about social legislation! Despite your governor's recommendation, please include experts in Carinthia! Do not drive over as Haider says, and go on my proposal to make an expert hearing, not a pseudohearing, but a real expert hearing! Make – as Mr Gaugg has said – politics with heart and feeling! Remember that this is about the life planning of thousands of young mothers and fathers – people are currently totally uncertain – and it is about their future!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9002	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9024	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus briefly on the Court of Auditors, which, of course, is also part of the Supreme Institutions. As a member of the Court of Auditors' Committee, I am pleased that the budget allocation of the Court of Auditors, which amounted to 241 million schilling in 2000 and 245 million in 2001, increased in 2002 to 252 million schilling or 18 300 000 y. This proves that the government and the government parties have recognised the importance and necessity of the Court of Auditors and have given it the appropriate resources so that it can work effectively and, above all, effectively for Parliament. I would also like to thank the Court for its constructive cooperation with us on this occasion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to another subject. Let me also say a few words about the general debate that has been held. We have heard quite adventurous arguments today. It is unlikely what has been brought today, one hears from it the total opposition. Mr. Edlinger stupidly told Mr. Günter to write a book entitled "From Absurdistan to the Gobi Desert and Back". [[Abg. Grabner: There you were out there!]] No, I heard that. [[Abg. Grabner: The Khol's book should be called that! You need to be a little careful!]] Grabner, please call me later. If Mr. Edlinger once sends himself out a book, maybe he should Called "From the government's lust for opposition frustration", because that's what we're experiencing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's not a constructive criticism, it's just a follower, a bad one. Ladies and gentlemen! I already understand that, but do you have to permanently deny reality? That is not the meaning and purpose either. The government has committed a serious inheritance. As patriots, however, we have said that we accept the certificate of reply, we want to renovate the finances, we want to accept the challenge, we want to deal with the problems, we want to secure the future for young people and, above all, we want to return to youth opportunities and – very important! – also give hope for a good life that she still has before her. That's our limit, even when it comes to budget recovery. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you're talking about uncertainties here, false reports, I'm allowed to go a little further in history. It is now five years ago, I remember exactly – probably everyone remembers – when new elections were held and Mr. Vrannitzky sent a letter to the pensioners in which he wrote and meant every pensioner in Austria: Dear pensioner! Dear pensioner! The evil others will cut your pension if you choose them. [[Abg. Silhavy: That was the first thing you did!]] They want to make a pension reform. We guarantee you that nothing will change that your pensions are in the same quality and height as before. Parliament was elected, and Vranitzky was back to the government. The first thing that has been done was the necessary, targeted and meaningful pension reform, which will also ensure our pensions in the future. Previously, the people were confounded, and afterwards he did exactly what he had to do. This is the reality of SPÖ policy, ladies and gentlemen. If the Minister of Finance has fewer debts by 14 billion schillings, if they are reduced from 53 to 39 billion, then go here and demand that he spend these 14 billion shillings elsewhere. I'm not an economic economist, but every popular student, I think, can figure out that you can't spend funds you've used to reduce debt for something else. You have to explain exactly how this is done. The majority of the Austrians did not come along with what you believed, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to point out that you have made a request for a reduction in the amount of redundancies. They complain of a formal error in the matter of sickness and accident pensions, but you yourself make a written request in which you claim the reduction of the amounts of the deposits, i.e. a deterioration for taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen! Your policy might be described as follows: If you were in government now, you'd tell the people, we'd wait until 1. January 2002, here comes the euro. And you would probably sell them the saying: "Euro against Schillingschein makes the debt small overnight. If it's a billion hole before, it's a few million more." – That would be your policy that you would sell to the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What you're doing in child care money is now, in pre-eastern times, just like an egg dance. They make an eiertance of the counterarguments, while the government will decide the yellow of the egg. Ladies and gentlemen! Explain to me the deterioration that you will bring to the Austrians when the women from 1st century onwards. January 2002 will get 10 percent more karenz money if every mother – whether she has previously been in employment or not – if every farmer, if every student, if every housewife will receive 6 000 S per month. Explain to me where there was a "worship"! Explain to me where the deterioration is when the karenz time is increased from 1.5 to 2.5 years or, if the partner takes care of Karenz time, to three years! Explain to me the deterioration of the 50 000 s limit to 200 000 s! Explain They're the women where they're being pushed back to the stove! I can only see improvements. Explain to them where the deterioration is when they get an accounting time for their own pension at a time of 18 months! Or explain to them where the deterioration is when the family allowance is increased by 100 S per child from 2003 onwards! You have an argumentation emergency, and you know that. But you go out and pose, the women are pushed back to the herd, the women are re-run. On the contrary! All women in Austria who have a child will receive the same benefits in the future. They may also be able to afford child care better in the future than before. And that's a milestone. You lack the arguments, and that's why you're going here, you're insecure the women and you're committing the child care allowance. They're scaring the women that it's getting worse. Ladies and gentlemen! No one believes that. No one believes this to be true throughout Austria, as are you, just as with your fear-making business, which you do with the people every day. We have begun to clean up the budget, to do something for the families. We have begun to shape the future, including the youth, who is so numerous here in the gallery today, to give the chance of a life that she deserves, namely to shape it according to her own ideas. This can only be done if she does not have to repay the debts of this morning and takes over a legacy that is free of debt and that she can make herself.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9114	Mr Brix spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9138	Mr President. High house! Mr Grossruck said that the former successful finance minister for the workers, employees and pensioners of this country, Mr Rudolf Edlinger, quoted a book that Mr Deputies stupidly wrote. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He certainly didn't say!]] I'll put it right: Mr Grossruck did not say the truth in this simple area either, because Mr Edlinger spoke of the book written by Mr Klubobmann Dr. Khol – and not Mr Deputies stupid.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9184	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9205	Mr State Secretary! You are responsible for media and culture. I would like to deal with the media today in part of my speech and in the other part with culture. Yesterday was the presentation of the so-called Wise Council. Apparently, you're just trying to get the whole thing into a bill. You may now be curious about ideas and clues. I can help you with questions that you still have to answer on the basis of this report. The four self-appointed or appointed by the government say that the ORF had to offer a balanced overall programme, and demanding content would have to be equivalent in it. In general, the main evening programme, the prime time programme, calls for demanding programmes to be chosen. I want to know, tell me today: What is a demanding program? What is the program for the stupid, and what is the program for the demanding? – I would like a translation, an interpretation of what these "wises" have formulated. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The transmission of your speech from Parliament is a demanding programme!]] How will this demand for a sophisticated programme be in the law? Is it not rather a premeditation and compulsion that lies behind it? This is to be decided by the Foundation Council or the Public Council or the Federal Chancellor on the Bundeskommunikationssenat. He then says what the Austrians do well, how to raise the level of education in Austria and where to perhaps lower it, where it does not pay. Next point. What I find remarkable is that the opinion says: Advertising must not mislead or harm the interests of consumers. It's not allowed to be used for advertising. – Now you have to stop the series "Future without debt" – the "Wise Council" says yes, advertising should not mislead and harm the interests of consumers – in which the Federal Government is trying to provide information about its government work before the "ZiB 1". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, it's a interrupter's advertising. Previously, the programme, the programme that has been done, and that is being interrupted by this propaganda. – I agree with the four wise ones, that is a wise advice they formulate. Next point: "The award of broadcast times for advertising to media holders who exceed certain "wides in one or more of the listed markets" is inadmissible." There should be no cooperation at all with large media houses, according to the Weisenrat. – What you do with it is that the ORF will lose a lot of advertising money and that the German media owners, the German television organizations, will deposit the money via their satellite windows in Austria. They're formally forcing them to do it. And here I have to tell you that this will be at the expense of as good series as "Julia" or "Schlosshotel Orth" or the World Cup, because this must be paid once. [[State Secretary Morak: 15 million!]] Because you just hit your hands together: Look at what the transfer rights cost for the World Cup! That must be paid! It's going into the infinite! Who pays the transfer rights for the other sports events, the World Ski Championship and everything else? This must be paid, otherwise the fees must be increased. If your program means that the fees should be increased so that the German television organizations make profits over their advertising windows in Austria, then this is against the interests of listeners and seers, and that is what you should really tell them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In short, I have to say that these are once alone three points that are worthy of interpretation. Unfortunately, I don't have enough time. We could work even further into the depths. But I would also like to say something about the cultural area. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The ORF is not part of the culture? – The ORF is part of the culture!]] Please, for the film industry – Mr. Klubobmann Khol, that was now a fauxpas – for the film industry hundreds of millions, quite decisive. If the ORF loses money, the film industry also escapes money. Then Morak can knock at Minister of Finance Grasser, he lets him go as always, and then there's nothing. And then the filmmakers are right at the door and protest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I want to know now whether the ORF belongs to culture or not!]] Art budget. Morak cheers because there are 25 million schillings more. But they are only for the conversion of the music club. My question: What do the artists have of it, except that they can then go to a renovated music club, which is pleasing, but for the art scene itself, I think, it doesn't do anything. Second question: Conversion into the art section. Call for tenders: Isn't that a bite on those you want there? Tell us the names, Mr State Secretary, that is much easier! That's right to put on the people. There's no call for tender at all. It is even more tragic if there is no tender. [[State Secretary Morak: There will be an invitation to tender!]] – There will be one. But then it will be interesting how it is formulated whether you can find out in which direction with the personal policy wishing rod. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's how you did it! I'm just saying Mailath Pokorny!]] Are the qualifications tests of the ÖVP by chance close? That is the meaning of this restructuring of the art section, let us say here. "Re-government" isn't that it. By the way, the Lower Austrians can do even better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Next point in this context: You have now extended the contract with Mr Holder without a tender. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Good man!]] The funny thing is, Morak asked for a call at the time, but we didn't want a call at all. Now he's the State Secretary. Now he's not making a call. That's what he's doing, but that's good. The contract will be extended by two years. I now received every comment. I think Mr. Holder is very sympathetic. I don't want to deal with the person Holder, but I want to say one thing, it's weird, how obstinate this is going on. It is also criticized in the "standard": Holder extension contradicts the law. The "Presse", the house, body and court leaf of your cultural policy, does not understand either. The only one who understands it is Mrs Wolfmayr, and I have to say that the text of the broadcast is probably written by the Morak employee. As an artist who can formulate the words well? Please, it says: "Wolfmayr: Reciprocal action by Secretary of State Morak". So everything is welcome what he does. I like to understand this because I sometimes have to make broadcasts myself, in which praise and blame were often not fully weighted in the balance. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Must"!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] - Because the conviction forced me to do so! But here's literally: "Wolfmayr: Another welcome, encouraging and sensible measure by Art Secretary-General Franz Morak". [[Demonstratative condolences with representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals.]] The old Ceauşescu would rise the tears in his eyes if he had heard such a formulation. “More a welcome, pleasant, meaningful...” It would be best if you would write: Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! - That's easier. Write this to and fro at the beginning of Morak and at the end of Morak, and if you do something, Khol, is sausage, but Halleluja must always be there. It's probably better with you than with him anyway. In any case, I would be in favour of the word "Halleluja" being brought more strongly to these press releases. But I want to focus on something else: Holder, state opera. Something we haven't actually discussed here in this house is the opera ball. I always like to look at the ARD's "Morgenjournal". [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Don't look at me! I'm enough of the ORF!]] You should also look at this, it would improve your level of information. At least every morning, "ARD-Morgenjournal". One morning after the opera ball comes ARD-ZDF with the title "What's going on with the Vienna Opera Ball?" An exciting report. You need to imagine the pictures. The only world star was bought by Lugner around 140,000 D-Mark, otherwise no world star will come there – well, we know that ourselves. Comment: It hasn't changed for 50 years. The daughters and sons from the best house present themselves to the fine Vienna society or at least to those who believe in it. Apart from being said to be an inconspicuous event, they don't think of anything new, now in the translation, it goes on: It's a carnival of penguins, they say, and also the federal government has its fairy tale prince. In order to show that Austria is internationally recognised in accordance with EU sanctions, it has invited the Croatian President. – So one execution of what the opera ball is there. I have to tell you, I watched the opera ball on TV. It is really a non-innovative, boring, self-provoking event that will be avoided by all who really have rank and names, except those who have to go there. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I wasn't there!]] The arrival of Mrs. Gürtler with her court jokes there – I tell you, the prisoner choir of "Nabucco" has looked more optimistic than the people at this entry into the State Opera. I can only tell you one thing: You know what if that goes on, what's going to happen? – "La commedia è finita!" For those who do not go to the opera, Mr. Schweitzer: That's from "The Bajazzo."
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9413	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9434	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After this speech, I thank Josef Cap for holding them. She was very refreshing. You allow me not really to go into it, but I would like to address a few of the facts that have been raised during this debate: If I look at the development of the art budget from 1999 to 2002, I have 1 150 million schilling in 1999, then the 4.5 percent reduction to 2000, an increase of 2.6 percent to 2001 and from 2 percent to 2002. That is to say, it is now 12 million schilling in hard numbers, but of course all that is not included in what we should talk about, and in view of that I believe that this Federal Government is very likely to be an accent in the field of cultural policy. It was not yet the talk of the 25 million schillings, which, unlike Mr Cap, of course, benefit the cultural creators, for example the musicians of this country, from the Philharmonics downwards, through the expansion of the music club, which has resulted from the construction measures taken in the U2. I mean this is a "window of opportunity" that we will put the funding on our feet in the next three years, by the way, together with the municipality of Vienna and together with one, like me, very worthy man, namely Albert Vila, who also invests 60 million schilling in the music club. Outside of the budget, which has already been said today, and I think that is also an accent, there are funds that have not come from the art budget, but have been gratefully made available by the Minister of Finance: 200 million Schilling – immediately and not for five years – for the programme share of the cultural capital Graz and of course also the German contribution for the Kunsthalle Graz and for the Kleine Festspielhaus in Salzburg, amounting to 200 million Schilling and 130 million Schilling. Both – and there one could very well talk about the cultural economy, which we should still talk about – was financed by the sale of federal shares at Graz and Salzburg airports. In addition, the 50 million schillings come from that new financing possibility – and this is also a cultural economy, I say – which we have created about the revenues of cable operators and about the art promotion contribution of SAT receivers, with value added not taking place in Austria to this extent, but can be financed by the Künstler Sozialversicherungsfonds. I see this as an essential priority programme of this Federal Government for the social protection of our artists. Of course, the double budget of this Federal Government for these next two years also allows for a commitment to use for two years, and I can assure you that we have made extensive use of it and have thus extended the scope for action of the cultural organizers and cultural intermediaries on the one hand, but also of the State Secretariat on the other. The measures we have put in place benefit about 100 promoters who have been granted a two-year budget according to the possibilities we have had: These are promoters in the field of music, visual arts, architecture, the cultural initiative and literature. I can only say one thing to you, on the repeated statement that subsidies would be granted among political outrages: Select from the following list of promoters, which I may give you as examples, even where here are the liberals where the ÖVP initiatives are: MICA, Musikverein, Klangforum, IGNM, Mahler Jugendorchester, Forum Stadtpark, Secession, Spielboden Dornbirn, WUK, all Literaturhäuser, IG Authors, Documentation Centre for newer Austrian literature, Increase of the dance budget – I can also say this – with the addition of a dance board: This is a first-time priority programme of this Federal Government, which has not yet been implemented. The objectives for the coming year are being projected and negotiated. We are in the process of finding a way of budgeting for several years, so that, as the municipality of Vienna has done, we can move to three-year budgets. Negotiations with the Minister of Finance are still pending, but it will be our firm will to set an emphasis this year to create greater planning security here. I would be very grateful for the support of Members on a given occasion. Mr Cap will certainly be more than happy about this. Make use of it and forget about its opposition role in the short term. Let me clarify a few things at this point: It has been addressed here by the State Director. I must tell you that what we have been able to do so up to now was within the framework of the possible law. All that is claimed to be opposite is, of course, wrong. What have we done or what is the basis of our decision? – As regards the fact that according to § 12 para. 3 The Federal Theatre Organisation Act is to comply with the Employment Act, however, I may point out that this is only of conditional importance when this provision of the Federal Theatre Organisation Act is extended to include "the appointment of the Director of the Vienna State Opera with the "conditional application" law, that persons who have not applied for this function can also be entrusted with this function as part of the invitation to tender for this function". So what I did was that, when Ioan Holder expressed his wish to extend his contract beyond 2005 to 2007, I demonstrated the political will to take this wish into account, stating that the Supervisory Board is of course officially in agreement on this – it will be on 4 April. April – and of course everything must be regulated in accordance with the law, including the implementation of a call for tender. I just believe that the State Opera also has a right to have a planning security for both the 50th anniversary and the Mozart anniversary year. Let me say another sentence on the cultural economy: The term means, ladies and gentlemen, "culture" and the term "economy". – What is being negotiated here is art and promotion – and this is a difference that I have here. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9512	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the planned 5 minutes until 3 p.m. are no longer going out. You'll either have to get shorter, or I'll have to interrupt you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9537	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Honourable People's Procuratorate! A high house also needs a budget, not a high one, but an appropriate one. This draft budget is essentially a continuation of the previous year by the Bureau of the National Council. However, as in general in the State budget, operational instruments must also be applied in the creation of Parliament's budget. Although we do not spend much more on other parliaments, it is a command of the hour as regards the use of funds to show a model effect here too. Cost transparency through a corresponding governance and budgeting concept for Parliament's management is an urgent requirement. I am inexplicably inexplicable because of the fact that the individual reference posts should be so difficult and not available to all Members. Ladies and gentlemen! It must be our common objective, on the one hand, to carry out our work effectively and to have at our disposal all the necessary instruments such as IT, and on the other hand to keep the necessary budgets as low as possible. But why, ladies and gentlemen, have 145 million shillings in reserves for investments, for computer, both for hardware and software, or why were these deposits added to 14 million schilling last year? On the other hand, especially on the part of the SPÖ, the evil government parties are always being declared that 25 million schillings in the budget will be removed. – This is either inability or political strategy. It is far from for you, ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, to put inability, even though you, Mrs Mertel, are not far away if you do not even know the difference between a budget and an invoice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Thank you! I'll try!]] - Please. Mr President, Mr Fischer – unfortunately he is not present, but you will be sure of it – has, in my view, been asked to vote with the President-in-Office’s colleagues – unfortunately, this vote did not take place in advance of the budget... [[New calls from the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] – You can speak later, Mrs Mertel. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I'm asking you something!]] - Please. [[Call to the liberals: This is not a question hour!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Are you a teacher?]] No, I'm not a teacher, but I was a tax advisor, which is why I know myself very well. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] You have probably not been able to bring Mr Edlinger to the attention of you, which is the difference between a financial statement and a budget. That is why we now have so much to pay for debt. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Please correct You also your President Fischer, that it is also for the budget creation of Parliament...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9629	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is at 3 p.m. and I ask you to end the sentence and then end the speech!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9651	I would like to continue my speech, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9681	Mrs Hartinger will therefore remain on the floor and will continue the speech after the end of the two short debates that are now taking place. Short debate on the reply to the question 1762/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9702	First of all, at the agreed time, we are entering into the short debate on the reply to the question 1762/AB. The answer to this question has been distributed so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate, and I would draw attention to the fact that the first speaker can justify the subject matter of the short debate within 10 minutes and that no speaker is allowed to speak for longer than 5 minutes. If a member of the Federal Government or a State Secretary speaks, the speaking time should also not be longer than 10 minutes. The first speaker to speak is Mrs Glawischnig, the applicant. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9733	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor has not yet arrived. It is unfortunate that every time the Causa Temelin needs a discussion here in the House, this must be caused by instruments of opposition, and that a chancellor and an environmental minister must always try to discuss the things happening on the ground here. Let's take a look at the situation: We now have 15 incidents behind us, preferably on weekends and Sundays. In the test operation of this power plant there is chaos: The power plant is constantly shut up and down – you don't come with the observation at all at all: once power to 55 percent, then again severe turbine problems, vibrations, resetting the reactor. Nevertheless, the control authority grants permits for a holding with a performance of up to 55 percent. Although she admits that there are serious structural failures, it is likely that the turbine will have to be exchanged, but it nevertheless gives further approvals – that is, a complete failure of the Czech control activity! Then a very worrying, remarkable study on the security issue was published a few days ago: German reactor experts have identified 29 serious safety failures, all leading to unacceptable hazards. Yes, Mr Westenthaler, to an unacceptable threat! But what is the reaction of our federal government to this situation? What is the reaction to a process in which Austria, together with the Czech Republic, was involved and which has gone so badly that the Austrian environmental protection movement and NGOs have left this process today? The reaction was: It's all right, it's all in the green area, we're not doing anything. . There was no critical opinion on these disastrous points that are now in place! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Federal Chancellor has become a Swiss chancellor; he has not lost a word on this blasphemous security problem. We now have, for some time now, a response to the question as to the implementation of the "Melker process", which we have called – as a non-fundamental opposition – a partial success. It is, however, as follows: If one then ends the work with partial success and the Federal Chancellor no longer continues to work on anti-atomic work, then a partial success can also become a failure. And this is the case today. Thus, there have been massive criticisms on several occasions from the Austrian environmental protection movement, the Austrian NGOs working on site in Upper Austria. There has always been the criticism that the "Melker Convention" is used as a mystery, that it is an unacceptable alibi and fig leaf action that they are sham negotiations. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is very constructive!]] It is said that no one knows the contents of the expert meetings, and interim reports will not be passed on to NGOs. And what did the Federal Chancellor answer our inquiry? – There is ongoing information to NGOs. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Super! All right!]] This ongoing information to the NGOs has looked so good that the NGOs have sat in Linz today and announced the process that they have left the entire "Melker process". This is the evidence of poverty in an anti-atomic policy: when the citizens are again dependent on resorting to self-help and taking action at the border. This is the success of your anti-atomic policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[The speaker holds a small item in black packaging with yellow-red inscription in his hand.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What was that?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is the nuclear waste from Gorleben!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Trittin with Castor transports!]] – You'll get it as a gift from us. I would like to return to the worrying situation once again. There was today a meeting of Foreign Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner with the Czech Foreign Minister. And what was their reaction to this exodus of environmental organizations from the "Melker process"? What has been their reaction to the massive criticisms that Temelin has repeatedly given, namely: a sham EIA, a persilicate, at the end of which only an eco-pickerl will stand, with which Temelin will go into operation, so to speak, with a persil license from the Austrian Federal Government? So what is the Foreign Minister doing in this situation? Which side does she put on? – She says it's all right, there's no reason to criticize anything. It makes the Czech operators the wall and pretends to be in the best order! It is not on the side of the Austrian environmental protection movement and the Austrian environmental NGOs, but rather it is on the side of the Czech operators, and that is indeed incredible! [[Abg. Head: On the side of the right!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Because you say it's the side of the right: The Upper Austrian head of state was involved in many actions. He was a "top-blocker", I would like to say almost now, to take over this once. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: But no one has been hurt!]] He has certainly perceived the possibility of showing by public protests that this process was really only a farce and not a targeting EIA. Our call for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic – who has not yet arrived and who obviously is not worth the effort to lose a word to Temelin – is now: The environmental organisations have...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9889	Mrs. Colleague! This is a work of the stenographs! Mrs. Dr. Moser! [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is the table of the stenographs!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What can the stenographers do for it?]] Stenographers or employees are sitting there! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You want to block the protocols!]] Let me now let the honourable Members finish speaking, and I ask you to get rid of this at the end of the speech. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: At the end of the speech? Where are the stenographers to write?]] Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e9980	I would like to take this opportunity now. I've already done it: The end of this process, which we have feared is a sham process, will be a persil for the start-up of a power plant that poses a massive threat. Many citizens in Upper Austria have already put the collar in place, and the Upper Austrian head of state has today declared in a broadcast, he understands that many of the collars have already been placed in the face of this sham process, this persilicate issued for Temelin. – These are the greetings of the Upper Austrians, who can rely on nothing but their own resistance and who have been abandoned by the Austrian Federal Government in the Causa Temelin! [[the speaker refers to the items emptied on the table]] I would now like to discuss our proposals on future continuation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now you just wanted to be so constructive! You said before: Once you wanted to be constructive!]] – I am always constructive, Mr Westenthaler! Don't I look like that? That's not a problem at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! We urge you to reinvigorate this whole "Melker process" – which offers the opportunity to re-create the question of the safety and environmental impact of this power plant, which is massively threatening Austrian safety to bring about a solution – to launch new negotiations. We know that the problems with the turbine are so big that it will probably cost the Czech Republic billions more. This is a huge chance, just: You have to take this huge chance, too! If you keep quiet for days, weeks, then you can't take any chances. You must now press ahead with a post-negotiation of the "Melker Agreement" and try to do so. Our second proposal: They must make the Czech Republic a serious exit offer. The Czech Minister for Industry Gregr has committed itself with two points. He says: The power plant will be finished if it no longer costs any additional crown and no day delay is recorded. – Both points are untenable. This is a huge chance for Austria and for you as Federal Chancellor! Make the Czech Republic a serious exit offer, and try to work together with those citizens who have stood at the border and who have repeatedly shown that they are in solidarity with Austrian nuclear policy, together with this movement that has actually strengthened your back over all months to reach the exit from this power plant! [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ask Mr Trittin!]] One last: If it is still true that neither an environmental minister nor a German chancellor on a day like today when environmental organisations have heavily formulated their criticism of the government and have come out of a long process, it is worth appearing here in Parliament and participating in a debate and to think constructively, Mr Westenthal, about what we can do together in this area, then this is an evidence of poverty for anti-atomic policy – and I have the suspicion that it is not at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because you pour everything with bars!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Once constructive!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10090	Thank you many times for your help! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10115	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent weeks, joint steps have already been taken in all areas addressed at the Milk Summit. Unfortunately, however, there have sometimes been avoidable delays on the Czech side, and unfortunately reports of incidents in Temelin are still on record in recent times, which are a reason for us to follow the further steps of the Czech authority with the highest vigilance. Since essential issues of implementation were still unexplained in January 2001, both in the process and in the content of the entire EIA, the Federal Chancellor personally addressed Prime Minister Zeman and agreed to the exact implementation of the agreements. With the joint declaration of Minister for the Environment Mag. Molterer and Czech Foreign Minister Jan Kavan of 13. As regards the overall EIA for the Temelin nuclear power station on February 2001, it was also possible to dispute essential elements of the further approach. However, I again point out that the way in which the "variety analysis" and "serious accidents" are taken into account, but in particular the quality of public participation will significantly influence the acceptance of the entire process from the Austrian perspective. The Czech side was last stressed by emphasis on the crucial importance of these points as part of an intervention in the Czech Foreign Office, which took place last Friday. I would like to use this consultation to help you, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen, to inform you of the current state of implementation of the agreement on the Temelin nuclear power station in the Czech Republic. On the Austrian side, the implementation of the "Agreements of Milk" under the direction of the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management is carried out in close cooperation with his Ministry of the Environment, which has been entrusted with the coordination of the field with regard to both the environmental impact assessment and the technical issues of nuclear safety. The Federal Environment Agency itself resorts to an extensive pool of experts. We also cooperate very intensively with the federal states of Upper Austria and Lower Austria, whose nuclear agents in turn ensure contact with NGOs on the ground. We also maintain an intensive exchange of views with the representatives of the German and Bavarian Environment Ministry, as well as with the responsible representatives of the European Commission. The importance of the Federal Government in this matter can also be recognised by the fact that it has been agreed to create an extraordinary expenditure framework of up to 45 million Schilling for the implementation of the "Melker Agreement" on the Austrian side, despite the priority savings target, in the framework of the ongoing budgetary consultations for the 2001 budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As early as next week, further important discussions will take place at expert level both for environmental impact assessment and safety issues in Prague. We will have a very concrete interim balance sheet on the 10th. ==References====External links== On that day, the Czech side will have to publish its environmental impact declaration in accordance with the agreement. Following this, as provided for in the Czech EIA law, there will be 30 days of opportunity to deliver opinions. A hearing in Austria is scheduled for the first half of May. The specific definition of time and place will take place in coordination with the most affected federal states, Upper Austria and Lower Austria. As regards the legal liability of the results of the environmental impact assessment, I refer to the joint declaration by the Czech Foreign Minister Kavan and the Austrian Environment Minister Mag. ==References== As a result, the results of the EIA for the further decision-making of the competent Czech authorities or bodies with regard to the authorisations to be granted under national law, as well as the basis for bilateral consultations to be carried out under the EIA Directive, should be used and implemented. Without prejudice to the fact that the actual public participation can only begin with the environmental impact declaration, the government representatives have regularly informed environmental organisations from the outset and, as far as possible, integrated them into the implementation process. ==References====External links== Januaryen at the Vienna Ministry of the Environment held a multi-hour information event with representatives of state NGOs and activists. In addition, meetings are regularly held on 1 and 27. ==References== In March, the Federal Republic of Austria and Lower Austria were appointed to the Federal Republic of Germany, which, for their part, promised to inform the environmental organisations at national level on a regular basis. Two other information events with environmental organisations and activists are scheduled for next week. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== In addition, relevant information on the Temelin nuclear power station – in particular on environmental impact assessment and safety issues – is always made available to the interested public at any time on the website of the Federal Environment Agency. I believe that, in this example, the extraordinary importance attached to the "Melker Process" by the Federal Government is clearly explained, and I assure you that the Federal Government will continue to use all its means at its disposal to protect the Austrian population and the environment from nuclear hazards and its positions in this regard, which are underpinned by multiple unanimous decisions by Parliament and the Land Days, with all the consequence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10191	I would like to thank the Secretary of State. We now come to those words whose duration is limited to 5 minutes. Mrs Mag. Sima. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10218	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! A brief comment to you, Mr State Secretary: You have presented this text, this "messenger" by Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel, in such an emotionless and unenthusiastic way that I can only draw conclusions from it on the content of this message. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He's still an actor!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] He's got a acting training! That's why it's all the worse that he's so unemotional! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (in the direction of speaker) Ulli, what role do you play?]] They meant that NGOs had been regularly informed over the last few weeks. So I can tell you from my experience: We have had to check all the information relating to this EIA. After the NGOs today announced their exit from this process, it is obvious that they have not been sufficiently informed. They are absolutely dissatisfied with how the whole thing has gone, and this is really a poverty testimonie for the Federal Government because it has given a great opportunity there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kiss: That's illogical!]] That's not illogical at all. Yesterday there was the incident number 15 in Temelin since the commissioning last October. Because of a vibration of the turbine, Temelin has once again been removed from the net. In the meantime, the power plant has already received the name "On/Off-AKW" because it is permanently switched on and off again. And the amazing thing that my colleague Glawischnig has already pointed out is that German Chancellors and Environment Ministers are silent about this. The incredible panseries of the last months have not been commented on in any way. There has been no such call to our Czech neighbours. Since the negotiations on the "Melker Agreement" there has simply been silence in the forest on the subject of Temelin. Then you should not be surprised, if the NGOs say after months of patient on-the-spot work: It's enough for us, we just got our nose full now, and we're not looking at that anymore! I am very sorry because the "Melker Agreement" could have been a very great opportunity, a great opportunity to deal with the subject of Temelin in a reasonable way and to really examine the safety defects. Unfortunately, this great opportunity has been given by the Federal Government, because without the NGOs it will be very difficult to carry out an EIA there, which can then really be accepted. Mr State Secretary! You have now presented it as if with this environmental impact assessment everything would be clear and as if everything were on the table. But I think there are still some open questions, questions that are still not resolved. We have been asking for disclosure for months: What's the schedule? When will there be a public hearing? I'm hearing for the first time that an appointment has already been taken into consideration. So far, no one has known whether there will be a hearing in Austria, the Czech Republic or both countries and what it will be like with the participation of citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Mr. Kopf! Unfortunately, you must also note that the NGOs have gone out. You have to take your own nose in this respect, because you have obviously not been able to sufficiently and satisfactoryly involve the environmental organisations, and are really committed to this environmental impact assessment. You know very well that we in the House have always tried to act together in terms of Temelin. There have been very many four-party proposals, because it was really also a concern of the opposition to act together on this matter. If you are simply wasting such a capital, because it is somehow not a special concern to you, because you are overburdened with the ambulance charges or whatever, then I really find that very unfortunate. This was a great opportunity that has been forgiven today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is still not completely clear: A zero variant should also be checked for the EIA. And the time given at the end of June is totally unrealistic and non-compliance. You can't be surprised when there are protests. You're really standing in front of Milk's sharps today, I have to say that with great regret. Something else has annoyed a lot of people. They have simply abandoned the blockade of the energy chapter with the Czech Republic, although the study with the 29 open security questions has recently been published. This has annoyed a lot of people. I know there has not yet been any final approval, but the previous blockade has simply been abandoned without reason. The APA was then even to be read that one would have agreed to the Energy Chapter, which God would then be grateful to him as not true. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a valid four-party application, which clearly states that an energy chapter cannot be approved, should Temelin not comply with the state of the art. And this study has once again clearly proved that this is not the case. I would like to say to the address of the Federal Chancellor, who unfortunately did not want to go to the House today, [[Abg. Murauer: weren't you there this morning?]] In terms of temelin really is fire on the roof! Take note of this! Get active at last! I can only tell you: We will support the resistance in Upper Austria because we understand that the citizens there are concerned – rightly concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10339	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. He has the word – and the same speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10360	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The difficulties with the Czech side with regard to temelin are known and cannot be discussed away. It is all the more important that our Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor, has succeeded in concluding this "Melker Agreement" with the Czech Minister for the Environment. That was not a simple matter, but it was successful. [[Call the SPÖ:Not successful!]] The EIA agreed there, involving the Austrian side, involves the very concerned population in the form of NGOs, in the form of activists through the Austrian Ministry of the Environment. Through the Federal Environment Agency, these organisations, as already noted by the Secretary of State, have been informed and involved in events in several meetings and have had the opportunity to present their ideas. The less I understand at this time – because we know that for the 10th. April the presentation of the environmental impact declaration is agreed and, apart from assumptions and assumptions, does not indicate any serious evidence that this environmental impact declaration was issued on 10 April. April will not be available – the action of environmental NGOs to announce the exit from this process. It's 10th. In April, it was expected that this declaration would be presented. Nevertheless, the APA claims are raised or findings are made such as: The period is too short. – However, it was already known at the conclusion of the agreement in Milk that the period until June is admittedly short, but it is nevertheless feasible. It is rather paradoxical to demand a fresh start in the negotiations. This would indeed extend the period by which this procedure could be concluded. Also, the fact that an EIA poses a certain problem in current test operations was known at the time of the conclusion of the "Melker Agreement". But that was the maximum possible in the negotiations. If you know all of this, you might come up with a suspicion. Mrs. Sima! They say it's a shame that the organisations that are now leaving NGOs are sorry. That's what I think. Only: I do not think you have any reason to do so at this time either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you're talking about a false process here and put it in the room without further evidence, you can pay it back with the same coin. Then one can also say the suspicion that it is perhaps a show by the NGOs and that you are making the opposition parties out of favor with the NGOs with this common thing and subtracting a common show. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's the way it is!]] But if I want to see it positively – and I am now inclined to interpret it positively too – then it could also be interpreted as an action provider in the direction of actions and processes in the Czech Republic. As a positive thinking person, I am naturally inclined to interpret it in this way. So I'm just taking your action once as an intermediary to raise the awareness of everyone involved in this process for that on 10 October. A useful result is to be presented on April, once again. Among these signs, I am even inclined to support the emotional – not content and object; in my assessment "show" – as an intermediate step, as an appeal to the Czechs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10426	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Fallent. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10447	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! We are certainly facing one of the greatest threats to humanity, and this is very close to our borders. I agree with you that the Temelin nuclear power plant is a high-risk reactor, that, according to a study, Temelin is more dangerous than a hundred modern nuclear power plants combined and that there are really these 29 open safety issues. Also 15 pans speak for themselves. - That's the situation. I also assume – and I am absolutely convinced – that in habitats with a future there is no room for such power plants, for such sources of danger. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But one thing I would like to say to you: I am not going to comply with this and I do not agree with it when criticism by the SPÖ and the Greens is expressed to this extent, because one must also see that the Czech Republic has a socialist government. I am looking for you, and I have done so several times to assert your influence there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Heindl.]] It must also be seen that there is a policy in Germany in the field of the environment that is dangerous and threatening, for example, when you think of Castor transports. Finally, we must also consider that a decision was taken on yesterday's budget request to reserve 40 million schilling for the implementation of the Milk Agreements and 5 million schilling for the seismically endangered Krško site. I cannot understand that the Greens did not vote in favour. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: And hundreds of millions of schilling are spent on the military!]] I can't understand! I am with you very much, I agree with your opinion when I say: Let's help get something done here! Let's get out of this dead end. And I tell you what we have to do and what we need to do together, but also what we should do: It is important to take Temelin out of operation and to carry out this EIA. The "Melker Agreement" must be put into effect, but it is also necessary not to prevent this, and it is ultimately necessary to decide on Europe's exit from nuclear energy in a short period of time. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Politics with Heart!]] I believe that the EURATOM Treaty should not be a treaty for nuclear energy – what it is now – but rather that this EURATOM Treaty must be changed and become an atomized Treaty in Europe. I also believe that we need to give priority to energy-saving measures and to create appropriate incentive systems – an eco-bonus system, for example, in which those who manage energy sparingly are rewarded with a cheaper price per kilowatt hour. Finally, we should work to ensure that there is a complete transition to renewable energy sources. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have taken the ElWOG first steps in this direction: we have created the electricity marking and the third-country regulation. We know that this is a first step and not the last one. Further steps are being worked on. We agree that there is an Austrian hydropower solution. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The energy industry must not be in the hands of foreign nuclear producers! Austria is to be a pioneer for sustainable technologies in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! We owe our children to stop the Czech Republic. That is what I stand for, and that is what the liberals and also the Federal Government stand for. I declare my solidarity with all those and support all those who are on peaceful, democratic and constructive – and on that I attach special importance: on constructive ways, try to avoid this danger of Temelin quickly. But I mean, we're going to have this 10. Wait April and then have to take a picture of the situation. The question is: Does the Czech Republic hold the agreements or not? Federal Chancellor Schüssel! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Federal Minister Molterer! Make the Czech Republic aware that this is not the way to the European community of values, nor the way to a future that is worth living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10551	The Minister for the Environment is speaking. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10572	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take advantage of the opportunity for this question to stress again that the strength of the Austrian anti-atomic policy is that we have a common basis, which, above all here in Parliament, is clearly expressed by the uniform line of all four parties, a common basis, which is also clearly expressed by the fact that we strongly vote on the steps taken by the Federal Government, for example with affected state governments, with affected federal states. And I would urge you to stick to this common strategy on this common basis in the interests of the Austrian people. I am also grateful for this, Mrs Sima, that today I have heard so clearly from you that you have called the "Melker Agreement" an opportunity. [[Abg. May. Sima: I've always said that!]] When the "Melker Agreement" was concluded, we heard opposite statements. And I think that we should therefore represent the common line to actually implement this "Melker Agreement", the opportunity that lies in it to realize also. Ladies and gentlemen! We work intensively and with all the consequence. You can also agree that – and I also thank this House – unfortunately not unanimously for the financial platform, which has provided a financial basis for this: for Krško, for the extension of seismic investigations, as well as for the security check and the EIA at Temelin. I just want to clarify two things, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Sima! These 29 points, which have also been transported to the public over and over again, are available on the Internet as 29 open questions that we have defined, about since mid-February. We have defined these 29 open questions as the basis for further processing in the EIA process, because we are interested in the transparency of this process. On the question of the energy chapter, I would just like to tell you that there is no conclusion of the energy chapter. This is not the case, as has unfortunately been falsely claimed in the public. No, the energy chapter is open, has not been completed. I therefore regret the announcement of NGOs against this background. I hope that the NGOs will reconsider their announcement because I believe that the offer of transparency and the offer of cooperation, including for the preparation of the public hearing, cannot be one-sided, but should ultimately be seen positively. My request therefore goes to all political groups in this House, not only to have this common basis here in the House, but also to contribute to the open and offensive cooperation of NGOs in Austria in this transparent process of the implementation of the "Melker Agreement" – ultimately for the benefit of the Austrian population, but not only of the Austrian population, but for the good and for the security of all people on this continent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10620	Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's – Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10641	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! No question: An appeal to the Czech Republic is necessary. But even more urgent – as I join one of my previous speakers, Mr. Kopf, – is active intervention, active intervention, active self-to-word talk from the head of government. Minister Molterer! I'm grateful for you coming. But it was not our intention to bring you here to a questioning meeting, but our intention is to talk to the Federal Chancellor, because we know – I say for at least four years – that nuclear policy has to be the chief thing in order to succeed. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner:... election campaign!]] That is why we wanted to talk to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany here and today, and bring him to his attention again our appeal – also the appeal of the NGOs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! Once again, you have conjured the common basis, even to ask for it, and you have also put the cooperation in the foreground. The basket with these "blockade waffles" was a double symbol. I had to "must" two cartons at the beginning of March of a school class because these students from the Mühlviertel, who were on the border, were so emotionally emotionalized that they wanted to throw these waffles down from the gallery. That was a safeguard action – so I can apostrophize it – because I believe that the wrong ones would have been affected. Parliament has always – in the form of four or five-party decisions at that time – represented an offensive Temelin policy. Parliament and the Members were always offensive, and there were appropriate decisions here. Whoever was not offensive, who always went into cover and always resorted to diplomatic formulations, that was and unfortunately is the Federal Chancellor. That was always our criticism. He has been entrusted with this matter since he was Minister of Economic Affairs, and he was entrusted with it when he was Foreign Minister. Whoever braked – you can ask insider-circuit – was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There were diplomatic concerns in dealing with our neighboring state. He, the current Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, has always exercised these concerns and these restraints as Foreign Minister. That is why we wanted to make more or less mention of him as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany so that the "Melker Agreement" is finally implemented offensively. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can briefly repeat the two key points. It was about environmental impact assessment. As the Czech Republic, the Ministry of the Environment in the Czech Republic, is currently dealing with environmental impact assessments, I believe that you too, Minister Molterer. There is a passing, there is no detailed examination, because very, very superficially simply the status quo is approved. We don't want that! That is why we do not want to do this, Mr Mühlbachler, especially because the miller's and miller's girls would not only have to hold their heads first, but because they would probably destroy the whole country if the horror scenario entered. I did not have these doubts so much in the past, but the more I deal with this issue, the more I read these studies and the more I deal with the work of Mr Hirsch, the more threatening this scenario seems to me. It is really a personal concern to make the following clear and clear: This is not just about much, here it is even about everything! This power plant must be stopped! There must be a rethinking break and a renegotiation of the scope of the EIA. In particular, it is necessary to provide an offensive exit scenario for the Czechs from the EU and with the help of Austria. Austria not only has to open the door, Austria should also take the first step. An energy partnership is half a step – essentially a stop partnership. For this, there are partners in Germany and the NGOs. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Unfortunately not!]] Today's exit of the NGOs is a clear sign, is an appeal that we need to inform better that we need to keep in touch with the Federal Government. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: The German Greens fail! That's the problem!]] They say: Only together are we strong, and only together do we! That is why we should have integrated the NGOs more massively. I also criticise this from this point of view today. An internet page is too little. Reasons Please also with the representatives! Talk to Josef Pühringer! He'll tell you that a lot of things have been done very carefully.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10716	Ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time has ended. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10731	One last sentence. Because the Federal Chancellor is not here and his answer was unsatisfactory, I would like to make the following request: Request Dr Gabriela Mosernach, Member of Parliament, § 92 para. 3 GOOD I hereby request that the reply to Question No 1742/J not be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10786	Ladies and gentlemen! The debate is closed. It is my request not to take note of the reply to Question No 1742/J. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion to give a sign. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Too little! Lost again!]] [[The vote shall be taken.]] [[Calls.]] Please calm down, ladies and gentlemen! – This is the minority. The application is largely rejected. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10836	We now come to the short debate on the request by Mr Dr. Pumberger, Dr. Leiner and comrades, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, reporting on application 412/A, a deadline of 30. ==References====External links== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes in the debate. For the reasons of the request, the first speaker will be given a speaking time of 10 minutes. First of all, the applicant, Mr Pumberger, receives the floor for 10 minutes, as has been said. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e10867	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The medical contribution is accepted as a steering measure by all experts and is now also represented by the medical board. [[Abg. Silhavy:... lives again in its own world!]] Some of the initially critical national councils also consider that this treatment contribution must be introduced as a steering measure. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Where did you get your wisdom?]] A purely formal error, an administrative error that has not been committed here in the House, has led to a faulty administration that on 20 June, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has failed to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty of Rome. The Constitutional Court of First Instance had to waive this provision. Now it's about us acting as quickly as possible. Here one cannot say "Speed kills" and so on, but now we must act quickly so that legal certainty is given, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Do you have a house apotheque?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] That is why we have acted immediately and tried to make committee appointments, but the opposition has responded with refusal of work. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Do you have a house apotheque?]] [[Abg. Edler: Hey!]] You operate fundamental opposition, you refuse committee appointments. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's great what you say!]] We offered you on the 28th day of yesterday. March to convene and participate in a committee meeting. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The Greens have just refused, and the SPÖ has set the prospect of rejecting it. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Do you have a house apotheque?]] However, in order to achieve legal certainty in the shortest possible time, it has become necessary that we have introduced this deadline today and that we also debate it. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Do you have a house apotheque?]] With the adoption of the application Pumberger, Leiner, the National Council is entrusted to the Committee to report to the Committee on Application 412/A by Pumberger, Rasinger a deadline of 30. This is the first time we've seen it in the European Union. [[Abg. Jäger: Husch-Fuch will continue!]] This makes it possible, despite your refusal to work and even though They do not allow constructive committee cooperation, very quickly, as early as 2nd. The decision to be taken in plenary session was April. [[Abg. Edlinger:... incredible!]] If you say that this is a "driving" because no committee has been allowed, this is primarily because you have not allowed a committee appointment. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: "overrun," says Mr. Haider!]] We have offered you several dates. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] If you say that's not Usus, I remember. For example, she submitted an own-initiative proposal concerning price law, which was submitted by Dr. Kostelka and Dr. Khol, president of the club. ==References====External links== It had to go quickly! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: This is about the house pharmacies!]] The urgency was justified, and the opposition was asked – at that time also the FPÖ in opposition – to have insight because of the legal certainty needed quickly. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: And you voted! That was a unanimous decision!]] Klubobmann Stadler joined your wish, Mr Kostelka. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You couldn't go fast enough!]] But it has happened against the will of two opposition parties, the Greens and the Liberals, who still existed at that time. Having Against Their Will They presented a high pace at the time. I would like to read this to you: They submitted the request on 24 March. ==References== ==References== He was already on the agenda of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. ==References== March, so the next day, the second and third reading took place. On the same day, the proposed law was adopted at second reading and was also adopted at third reading on the same day. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: And all of it unanimously!]] On the same day, the Federal Council was also switched on, and on 26 March. On March – thus it was a total of two days for a law – the Federal Council, on the other hand, did not object. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In two days you whipped it through!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I remember, and that wasn't an individual case. They had already acted very quickly under the Unemployment Insurance Act. ==References== It was introduced in March 1998, and it was still in the Committee on the same day. ==References== It was allocated to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on 21 March. ==References====External links== March: second and third reading. 27. March: Federal Council. Also 27. March: The request for the Federal Council not to object was accepted. So again, two days for a law. So you don't have to blame us if we have to establish a legal status within ten days, which will ensure that patients have certainty about who has to pay how much of an ambulance fee. The treatment contribution as such is undisputed. We have also used this opportunity to make small adjustments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Since there is now a month of practice and some administrative difficulties have become known by several bodies, we have said: Let's change that on this occasion! It would not be useful to make the same request once again if we were able to make small, light adaptations. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: "Light adaptations"?]] Easy adaptations, improvements! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Completely redesigned in content! So more people pay!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Professor Grünewald! It is true that the medical profession, your office, and also my – as a forced member of the committee – are fully behind this new request. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Uh, sure!]] All the Councils of State, which have so far been critical, are fully in favour of this request. So there is no one who opposes it – except one, I have to correct myself. There's still someone who's not behind the new request, and that's the main association president, Sallmutter. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: An artificial error law!]] He expressly warns against attempting to repair the ambulance fee within the next few weeks. – This is the way Mr. Sallmutter thinks. That's how he exposed himself. Against better knowledge, he does not want this government to fix and improve something quickly, which is absolutely necessary and which creates legal certainty. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You argue exactly as the law is!]] At the time, this legal certainty led Mrs Hagenhofer to argue with the unemployment insurance law, which had been whipped through in two days. That is all so that legal certainty is given, she said at the time. – Completely correct, even Klubobmann Stadler joined him at the time, and legal certainty has occurred. But if you are refusing your approval today, I do not understand what you want to do. [[Abg. Silhavy: There is no legal certainty!]] I just don't understand. You, I think, want to prevent a sensible steering measure in toto, or you really just don't want to allow constructive cooperation in this House. You want to operate fundamental opposition and simply be against everything that makes sense, whether you've checked it or not. The fact that children are excluded, for example, is a very good thing and really an improvement. We have also created many reliefs in administration. What is particularly important: Not the hospital needs to determine whether someone has to pay the contribution, but the insurance institution, the health insurance companies. All of these are major improvements. Ladies and gentlemen! If you do not want to continue making fundamental opposition, you agree to this deadline request!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11246	In the next debate, Mr Lacner will first be given the floor. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11268	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! "Speed kills" – although official from the "simple party member" to Tomb worn – lets this today's deadline debate greet. Dr. Pumberger, listen! In the so-called "husch-fuch" process – and not through the refusal of work of opposition or social democracy – this parliamentary procedure is boxed through. The Socialist Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats does not support this procedure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They also want to carry out this parliamentary procedure without the exclusion of any public, without consideration, and without the involvement of experts in Parliament. For this unsocial, unthinking measure, the ambulance tax, which is to be decided on to harm the population in this country at the pace of migration, we certainly do not give ourselves up! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are ten basic reasons for a clear no of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group on this non-social ambulance tax and on this deadline which reflects the lack or non-existent concept of democracy of this coalition and federal government. Ladies and gentlemen! The recognition of the Constitutional Court is not even available to the Austrians, and this legal matter is already being swept into "verified" Husch-Pufsch-Manier by Parliament. The Ambulance-Straffehl-Neu was substantially changed compared to the old law. Nevertheless, there is no proper committee work and no consultation with experts. There is also no review procedure. This New Ambulance Fee contains significant intensifications for workers as well as pensioners. You alone have to raise 1 billion schilling from this sick duty. From this ambulance charge, farmers, self-employed and officials are excluded. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Because we already make the contribution! We already have 20 percent to pay!]] The government argues for the ambulance charge new with a steering effect, ladies and gentlemen. However, the purpose of this ambulance power tax is another: It's, as I said, an ambulance punishment tax. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The scapegoat policy is continuing. The blue-black federal government shifts responsibility in the usual manner to social security. I wonder, Have you ever talked to the social insurance companies and the main association on this matter? With this ambulance fee-new, a large bureaucracy monster is created by this government in a "proven" way, and the financial hunger of social security is continued by this Federal Government. The cost compensation granted to social security schemes does not even cover the postage costs for these measures, ladies and gentlemen. With this Ambulance-Straf tax-Neu, the well-known way is to pass over the interests of 5.5 million Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, it can be said: This Federal Government prevents proper review and consultation with the help of experts. We strongly reject this dictated procedure! That is why we will not agree to this deadline. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now a few words about the FPÖ: Talked and broken again! – Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this is probably the way to interpret your resolution yesterday in the Federal Party Board or the Federal Board of Directors. I can remind you of them: The objective of the FPÖ governance policy is to be in dialogue with the citizens, in particular the weaker and the beneficiaries of income, support and assistance. Ladies and gentlemen! The procedure you choose during this deadline has little in common with dialogue. This is a diktat and a driving over those people you pretend to want to protect them with this resolution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11335	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11359	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lacner has now presented the ten commandments of error. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is no wonder that among the population such legal uncertainty has come about through your actions, through the stupidity that you carry out into the population. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] It is irresponsible to inform the poor, the weak and especially the sick as it is simply not right! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: From you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Your policy is irresponsible, Mr Leiner!]] We know very well that this ambulance fee is not a financing element but should be a steering element. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There is none of those who, ten years ago, have negotiated with me about the ambulance charges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You were for it! Mr Rieder and many others have appealed and even wanted to bring in 300 s. We are now at 250 S and 150 S, but not 300 S!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11453	Ladies and gentlemen! The next speaker, Dr. Povysil, is a well-known quiet speaker, Mr. Dr. Grünewald, and we will also be calming down this discussion. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11468	Mr President. I'm gonna be a little more calm. But I am so excited because the people here – I am directly involved, I know exactly what it is! [[Abg. Sword: (prettying the gesture of money with thumb and finger) Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Financial participation!]] This is not about the finances. You know very well, I have my salary – whether I have a lot of ambulances or only a few, is completely sausage. [[Abg. Leikam: That's very true!]] I am not involved in this way. But introducing the ambulance fee was simply a necessity to get the patients out into the periphery. On one point, however, I give you the right to: We need to build the infrastructure outside accordingly. I would also like to ask the Socialist Councils to take part in this, instead of practicing opposition in the countries and not to make available the corresponding funds necessary to build up the social services and to provide the appropriate conditions in conjunction with the medical board, with the country and with the social security funds so that patients can also receive appropriate, high-quality therapy and care there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is a socio-political decision and a social-political excitement that widens your mind. [[Call the SPÖ:No, it's about cashing!]] [[Abg. Grabner: The Haider sees it differently!]] We know very well that it is essential to provide a basis for this, on the one hand, for rural areas. Mr Edlinger has repeatedly spoken about the two-class medicine. – 30 years of socialist health policy have already caused the two-class medicine! [[Abg. Grabner: The ÖVP...!]] Remember that in urban space there is a doctor for 330 patients, but in rural areas for 850. So there's no back and front, you have to see that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] [[Abg. Edlinger: These are your national leaders!]] No, there are legal requirements that we now want to offer. We want the rural patients to have exactly the same opportunities and opportunities as those living in the urban area. [[Abg. May. Worm: But a cash agreement...!]] That's why we're building group practices, so we want to make daily clinics possible. You have prevented you from running the group practice law so far – I have also negotiated it with you for ten years. But nothing came out of it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yes, with you, with the Socialist Group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now we are finally at it, and the current government is able to make the same equality possible instead of a two-class medicine. I am firmly convinced that what is now being done is not acceptable to some people – and some people have to be stopped fortunately – but it is a vital necessity. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The majority is the principle of democracy?]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Freedom...!]] This will enable better quality and significantly more humane medical care on-site. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11667	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11697	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Reform means change once – no disadvantage without advantage! [[Abg. Oils: That's so simple!]] The abolition of this contribution by the Constitutional Court is an opportunity to improve. I would like to thank you very much for your cooperative cooperation in this improvement. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That's a punch!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Husch fuch!]] You know the innovations. You know that the exceptions are now being adapted and that co-insuranced children are now excluded. Where's the "fuch"? Do you want to say that the exception of the co-insured children is a social "fuch", ladies and gentlemen of social democracy? – That will not be your view of things! [[Abg. Grabner: Haider said it!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] These derogations are now linked to the mother-child pass – this is also a purely positive measure. The infant mortality is very low in us, the protection of the mother at birth is particularly important to us. [[Calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Now this derogation is linked to the mother-child pass, which we always wanted and which you wanted. Where's that negative? Where is this unsocial? - I don't understand. You have no arguments! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The administration is being streamlined. The hospital reports patient data, and they are now administered by health insurance. [[Abg. Grabner: The Haider said something else!]] That is, the meaning of the ambulance fee is to direct the patient away from the hospital to the established doctor. [[Abg. May. Worm:... Freedom?]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap keeps an issue of the "Kronen-Zeitung" with the headline "Haider attacks his own party".]] I am aware of this now that the cash registers have a very special mission, Mr. Dr. Cap. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka:... Ambulatory!]] The patient pays an ambulance fee in the hospital, the patient pays a health certificate fee to the established doctor. But where does he pay nothing, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy? – In the ambulances of the social insurance institutions! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (in addition to keeping the "Kronen-Zeitung" in height) More heart!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] These are now particularly important. [[Abg. Silhavy: What about the private ambulances?]] They must now participate financially in the expansion of the established area, and they are no longer against group practices. You can't stand it anymore. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They are now required to place a sign and finally give contracts to the doctors in the group practice, so that the established area can be strengthened, because only then can the ambulance fee – from which the social security institutions are excluded – really work. [[Members of SPÖ hold a new edition of the "Kronen-Zeitung" with the headline "Haider attacks their own party".]] That is, the main association is called upon to strengthen its own contractual doctors so that the intentional steering effect, which makes sense, really occurs. Ladies and gentlemen! It is estimated that 1 billion Schilling is free in the health system by collecting this ambulance fee, which is available for the expansion of the established structures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Our ideology is: We are against the nationalization of the health system! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (on the "Kronen-Zeitung" with the headline "Haider attacks his own party" pointing out) But what does he say? What's he for?]] England has failed, Sweden has failed. [[Abg. May. Worm: What does he say?]] We are for a meaningful co-existence of public and private offers, of outpatient and stationary. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Leikam: And where is the heart?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our way is to reform. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Yes, but where is the heart?]] That's it! I know this path is not easy, but it is necessary in the sense of our patients. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Where the heart is, I want to know!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] And in all counter-argument, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy: You can't stop us!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e11995	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12064	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Grabner: Where is the Gaugg?]] I would now like to put my arguments to you in peace, and I do not want to polemise if I appeal to your mind. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Pumberger read out of his parliamentary calendar and then meant that there would now be many reliefs. Allow me the shy question: What relief occurs when the circle of those affected is initially increased by 10 percent by the factor 5 and now a billion schilling is expected by the patients? What relief is that? Is it the relief of doctors who now have less administration to deal with? Does what you say, what you're going to say, reduce to state-of-the-art motives? I quote from a letter that you should not write, a letter from Waneck to all doctors in Austria. Maybe he believed I'm not on that list of distributors. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] What's in it? – The introduction of the treatment contribution was characterised by little expertise, but by a lot of polemics and destructive criticism. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Who did he mean?]] – I wonder: Shouldn't he have written this letter to the Federal Government? It has been very little knowledge! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The Austrian Federal Institute for Health has calculated that only 10 percent of cases would have become taxable or ill. But 10 percent are too many if these 10 percent are not determined in a fair way. The Constitutional Court has withdrawn the fees for formal reasons, but has forgotten You don't: He has not lost a word on any reasons for content. I now only need half an hour to explain this nonsense to you in the context of the content. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] How can you now believe that after months of failure and a really chaotic discussion on the definition of emergencies and derogations with one hour of committee meeting will be ready for decision within three days? How can you do this if you cover the administrative burden at 6.5 percent of the revenue? 6.5 percent of 150 S would be around 9 S. A postage stamp costs – excuse me for having to explain it to you – 7 S, a envelope and the paper may also cost something. The whole computer will have to be changed again because of the fact that it is no longer valid. It then still needs experts, it costs reminders and complaints, perhaps even decisions of the state government. - That all around 9 s? I wonder, Where's the reason? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We're not asking for anything else – I'm really begging you now! – we would have expected nothing but the opportunity to think together with you about it, to think about it together and to have a fair discussion. You wish for finalization. But what does finalization mean? – Finalisation means going to the end. And it actually goes to the end! You're afraid of a loss of face. But who really loses something? – Patients lose something, and Parliament loses credibility if you think that half a year of chaos can be corrected and made into something you call enlightenment in the health system. They also call it a "milestone". Mr Pumberger, show me a bright milestone, and I believe you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Once again for finalization, for finalization as a final term: It is really the end, the end of a serious discussion. It is the end of a cooperation of the reasonable from all camps. However, we do not make ourselves statisticalists, we do not let you become statisticalists, statistics of a scene-shield behind which much could be seen and found, but also not statisticalists of a hurry that is ultimately nothing but irrational omnipotence. [[Call the Freeman: Unemployed!]] We also do not let ourselves be made a fig leaf of pseudo-democracy. You want to whip something! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another thing: If you believe you can pass a law that should satisfy everyone in one hour's discussions, I tell you: We won't be in there, we'll stop before you preach the motto: Before the cock crows three times, everything is done! We wait a little longer and are more serious. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner:... only ten years!]] That means: In respect of Parliament – I say this before the listeners and spectators – we will not give up on this I would almost say Greek tragedy and not enter the stage you have prepared for us. We will not attend this vote in respect of Parliament and hope that You will vote once on templates of which you can say: It was thought about it, it was looked for the best and found the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12186	I do not have any further comments to make on this. That concludes the debate on the deadline request. [[The Greens are leaving the meeting room.]] We therefore come to the vote. On the request of Mr Pumberger, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, I leave a deadline of 30 days for reporting on Amendment 412/A. To vote on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the deadline proposal to give a sign. [[Extensive brawl at the SPÖ.]] [[All representatives of the SPÖ hold large pieces of paper with the red-stretched inscription "Ambulance Fees" in front of their faces.]] [[Call out to the liberals: Beautiful!]] [[Abg. Steibl: Shame about the beautiful faces!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Get up, then you'll be better seen!]] I note that the request was adopted by a majority. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What is that...?- Oh, my God!]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12274	I will now resume the discussions on the budget chapter of Group I and please... [[Abg. Nuremberg:... Haigermoser...!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Where's the Gaugg?]] [[Call the SPÖ:... unsocial!]] [[Prolonged calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're back to the budget debate now! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hartinger, who started her speech before the short debate and will now continue. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: It was a unanimous vote because that was a clear sign!]] [[Calls and calls between Grabner and Dr. Martin Graf.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: The count is really an intellect filler!]] Mrs Hartinger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12368	Mr President. It is clear to me why you tried to boycott before the interruption, that I am saying my closing word, because I have a call to you. I have spoken about the budget of the House and I urge you to consider establishing, in agreement with your Presidential colleagues, a controlling to monitor the budget of the House. In fact, a controlling would reduce the tension between business management and expansion of the National Council and the Federal Council. We MEPs and all the Members of this House will finally have those working conditions that we need, and this with a feasible budget. But let me present another aspect. Ladies and gentlemen must also be motivated – as motivated by them, you have just seen – and I can assure you that the motivation of the government parties is very large anyway – Mr Schwemlein already laughs, namely the motivation to show the population that unpopular measures such as savings due to years of absence of the socialist government were therefore necessary. [[Abg. Swimmling: Is it better for you, I look evil?]] – No, but if you laugh at your own mistakes, please! I'm sorry what you've done in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] It is important for us to make an honest, transparent policy and also fair policy for the next generation. Our Minister of Finance has managed to fill all the gaps and holes created by a few decades old socialist caries. The motivation of Members is one thing, but it is also important that all Members of Parliament be motivated. – It is certainly not easy to be committed and friendly at so many long and turbulent sessions. A high house needs a heart – and these are the employees of the house!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12415	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. I'll give her the word. The watch is gladly set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12436	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This budget, which we are dealing with today in the general debate, has an administrative deficit of 11.4 billion schilling. According to Maastricht criteria, it is considerably higher, namely 21.7 billion schilling. Income increases by 1.9 percent, with expenditure falling by 0.8 percent. - As far as the numbers are concerned. But how do these figures come to be? – Ladies and gentlemen, these figures are the result of an unfair, unjust and in many areas of humane policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since you know this too, Mr Feurstein – now I look at you, because you are just sitting in my sight – you are running a confrontation policy. There's no consensus being sought, it's just going over. This is indeed a complete turn in the political culture of our country! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I will answer you afterwards!]] There is, for example, an application made by SPÖ in the Carinthian Landtag, which concerns the abolition of the non-social accident pension tax. This request will be adopted unanimously. – that is to say, ladies and gentlemen of your couleur, Mr Feurstein, and those of the liberals must have agreed. But what do you hear from this House? – Well, in some cases accident insurance should pay more to pensioners so that the Minister of Finance can continue to disburse pensioners. That's your answer? – That is contemptible, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Zero-deficit as a fig leaf for the slam of the social state – this is your policy that you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, will be responsible for. Zero-deficit as a fig leaf for you to make a client policy for millionaires, but to act like wage-sack pirates for the workers – you, ladies and gentlemen of the blue-black coalition, have to answer on your own! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Zero-deficit as a fig leaf for you to scrape the middle class in Austria to an enormous extent. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Heartless again!]] President Verzetznich has already presented to you today the Wifo expertise in this regard. They give people the opportunity to participate in the development of prosperity, and the privilege and artistic economy flourishes in your environment. That's what you have, that's what this government has to answer! [[Abg. Dr. Cap:... no heart!]] Since you know all this yourself, you're making a confrontation policy. The debate on the ambulance charges we have just experienced has led the public as a whole. You have made a Husch-Puff law that the Constitutional Court of Justice has brought to your attention. You have made a Husch-Fuch-Law, which was not only so bad by the legal quality that it had to be lifted, but you have thus made a law against the people. You take away sick people money, you violate the solidarity community, you divide this society quite consciously – and that is what you have to answer on your own! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Feurstein, you do not find this contemptuous if you then hear comments like: The Can we get sewn from the private doctor? That was an answer from a liberal to an example today. Don't you think that's inhumane? And then there's a homicide! – So I find that horrendous! If this is the new policy, then one must be afraid not only of being ill, but of living in that country under such a government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Binder: It's bad!]] Mr. Feurstein, how does that look? Mr Gaugg has made himself completely out of the dust, he is no longer even in the discussion, he is running away from it! How does this look at the ambulance charges? Have you ever asked the main association before? Do you have the questions this one raised in the last ambulance fee scheme? She's a judge, has she answered before? It's going to be great to the main association – it's supposed to do all that – because then you want to go over it with laws that don't even explain how they're to be implemented. People are still unsure because they still do not know whether they are covered by this regulation or not. And it is also clear that, for example, accidents at work are no longer excluded, Mr Feurstein! In view of all of this, a doctor makes himself and tells everyone seriously: Improvements! – Where are improvements when people who do not pay any fees now because the Constitutional Court has withdrawn this non-social measure? This is contemptuous, which is a policy that has not been known and not been used to in Austria so far! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, you also have to be critical of this, which is also a strong criticism from your own ranks. A special highlight is then, when a member of the government, namely Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, finds that one's own work causes a "desastrous chaos". I have to tell you: As an opposition, we do not need to say much more about it, we can only confirm it. This assessment of your work, namely that she is upset and causes chaos, we agree. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since a representative of the People's Procuratorate is present today, I would like to thank the People's Procuratorate for their work. . I am only afraid that in the future you will be confronted with work in the face of the legislation of the current government and also the majority of coalitions here in this House. I regret it for you, but, as has been said, as the current policy is a confrontation policy, consensus is not sought and, although it is praised but never actually implemented, it will not be better either. We do not need to comment on the opposition at all. There is an economic magazine called "trend", whose assessment is more than negative for you – I quote: "Of course, all Austrians have to make contributions to achieve the difficult but sensible objective of a balanced budget." – This speech may be known to you. You will have heard it from many sides, even here in this house. What scares the Austrians, however, is that it – I quote – "is ever more unfairly distributed". – This is the policy that you, ladies and gentlemen of Black and Blue, have to answer! Mr Khol spoke of the heart and the brain in full today. Heart and brain, ladies and gentlemen, were there in politics before the turn. But in this respect too, you really did the turn. Politics with hearts and brains, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, will certainly not be yours in this republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12562	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12600	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! You are talking about confrontation, Mrs Silhavy. I do not want to judge who is responsible for the confrontation here in the house in the last few days and weeks. [[Abg. Silhavy:... Ambulance fees!]] Anyway, I don't take your party out of it. The confrontation policy she has conjured up is unworthy of this House and politics in Austria. Let me say this, Mrs Silhavy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Your policy challenges this!]] We took place in February and March 2000 and have invited you to consult and work out the important reform measures with us. Where did the No come from? – From your side came the No: No, we are not ready to talk about government proposals! - That's how it was answered. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Now we are experiencing exactly the same thing with the ambulance fee. [[Call at the SPÖ:Red means dictate with you!]] . We hear from you, Mr Cap, just a no on the ambulance fee. There are many in your ranks who are for the ambulance fee because they see that it is necessary. It is necessary as a steering measure, as Mr Leiner said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is necessary as a steering measure, because it is not possible to be supplied free of charge in ambulances. If I go to the house doctor, I'll have to pay 50 s for the health certificate. I can't do that, ladies and gentlemen. That's unfair. That is what you must admit, Mr Cap. That's not the way to make health policy. Let's have said this once! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Heartless Health Policy!]] We've been on, and I've been allowed to participate for ten years: We have made a health policy without two-class medicine. We have made a health policy for everyone, ladies and gentlemen. Don't distance yourself from it! Again: The proposal for an ambulance fee comes from you as well as from our side. It's not right if you distance yourself from it. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Are you for a heartless policy?]] – I am in favour of a fair policy to ensure social security in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You say no, ladies and gentlemen, when we say that savings are necessary. I have not heard from you in any point, but this or that saving measure is necessary. I have not heard a single proposal in this debate today, how we can get away from the debt, how we get away from the re-indebtedness, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Heartless Saving Measures!]] [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] Not a single proposal! Is politics, ladies and gentlemen, in Austria, if you just scream? – You are yelling again today, Mrs Silhavy! I told you yesterday and yesterday: Whoever screams has a bad conscience, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The Austrians want to get away from indebtedness. I'll tell you now. Ladies and gentlemen! The young Minister of Finance Androsch arrived when the Austrians were indebted to 7 000 s per head. [[Abg. Silhavy: You don't believe that!]] Today we owe 200 000 s – for young people in the same way as for older people. Every child born today has a debt burden of 200 000 S! Is that responsible? I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Is that responsible? – I say: No, no, no, [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Mr. Feurstein! You're almost 14 years in the government...!]] We say, ladies and gentlemen: Get away from the debts! We say: more for the family, and want to introduce a child's allowance. From you only comes: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Stress for the families!]] 13 or 14 or 16 billion schilling more for the families, you say, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, no! Is the policy for the family? - We'll go this way. We will take care of the families and make sure that the young families get more money! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One last point: I do not want to deal with everything, but, Mr President, on one point you argue wrong. They were the ones who demanded ten months ago that replacement times be covered by corresponding contributions. I remember your paper. We now transfer 15 billion schilling from unemployment insurance for replacement periods. This is exactly the amount that the opinion has calculated, which was commissioned by Minister Hostasch and which is available to us. [[Abg. That's not true at all!]] These 15 billion schillings correspond exactly to the replacement times for the unemployed. That's going to be transferred. That's what you're criticizing. See how shaky You are, how do you change your opinion from one month to another, from May 2000 to today?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Not at all! Not at all!]] You asked for that at the time. - We've done this now. [[Abg. What about the billion for social security? What about the billion?]] I also believe that child rearing should be paid better, and we have tabled a motion for a resolution, Mr Vergestnitsch, which says: The competent ministers shall be instructed to check the replacement times for the present operators, to check the benefits necessary to ensure that they are recognised as contribution periods. [[Abg. That was already last year!]] - That was about six weeks ago. At that time this request was tabled by us, and we will receive a report on it. [[Abg. Controversy: Did you repeat it?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude: This budget, which we are deciding today, is one that will ensure full employment. We will have fewer unemployed people in 2002 than today. It is a budget that does not fuel inflation, but lowers it. We will have a lower inflation rate in 2002 than today. We already have a low inflation rate today. This is a budget that ensures and ensures economic growth. Ladies and gentlemen! Economic growth is the basis for having a proper, regulated budget implementation. In this sense, I believe that it is a good budget, a budget to which we can stand.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12869	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12890	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Only fools persist in mistakes that once happened to them in their work. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's true!]] [[Abg. Amon: Is that a SPÖ balance?]] – You have to let me speak out, Mr Amon! . As far as Mr Sozialminister's very reasonable approach to drawing the right conclusions from mistakes is concerned. There is certainly nothing wrong with this. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this statement in the "format" this week was still fresh when the new fall of sin, the ambulance fee new, followed. Even I, Mr Feurstein, did not believe how quickly the Minister of Social Affairs will be unfaithful to his very good intentions. Even I didn't believe that. He's really the prototype of a "Speed kills" policy. And he has managed to confuse the Austrian population collectively within a few hours, Mr. Feurstein, which has not yet managed a minister before him, namely in the matter of ambulance charges. That is, in fact, Oscar-suspected, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now to the facts, ladies and gentlemen. Even more unsocial, even more inconceivable, even more Husch-Fuch in the sense of the inventors of the Speed-kills policy, this ambulance fee is new. She meets in full hardness workers, employees, pensioners and pensioners. You alone, Dr. Feurstein, have a billion schillings to pay for this health tax. Farmers, self-employed and officials are deprived of this health tax. Mr Feurstein! You don't pay a new ambulance fee, whether you want to do it or not. You're not paying a health tax. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Is it just that I have to pay 50 s at the family doctor and zero in the ambulance? Give me an answer! Is that fair?]] [[Interlocutory note by State Secretary Dr. Finz.]] - But they don't pay an ambulance fee. You haven't read the law, Mr. State Secretary! At least you need to read your own law once. That would be appropriate. You obviously didn't do that, otherwise you wouldn't be able to claim it now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is referred to by the Klubobmann of the ÖVP as a reform for the benefit of people in this country. That, ladies and gentlemen, is pure cynicism! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I could now re-debate on the rented ambulance fee for hours or present facts. In view of the advanced period, I just want to limit myself to saying that this ambulance fee, as mentioned above, is unsocial. It has, and has proven to be, no steering effect for better knowledge and is therefore rejected by us on the most decisive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e12985	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Povysil. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13033	I have to change the subject completely now. Unfortunately, it is not possible for us to talk in meaningful groups – once about culture, once about the Supreme Institutions – so that this is messing up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] I didn't start my speech right yet: Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Thematic art. Why is the new government the best thing that has happened to the gentlemen in the cultural industry? - No, that's intentional. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The ladies not?]] I quote a reader's letter, and it was exactly like this: Finally, there is an opponent who gives what, and finally you are again experts in freedom. Finally, you can stand in a row again and misqualify any criticism of the same as an attack on art. Finally, there is media presence for the gentlemen Important and Co. And finally, we can go through what has so easily not gone, because it could have looked stupid – undemocratic or hostile to women, for example. Now there are the blues in the government, and they are responsible. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are responsible, together with our coalition partner, we are responsible for 14 months of government work. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What do you think of the blacks?]] We are responsible for a European model scheme for the protection of the cultural property book. We are responsible for the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz, which helps the unestablished and low-income artists. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Very successful! Very successful!]] – Have you achieved a pension allowance of 1 000 S? Have you reached it, or have we reached it? – They didn’t reach it at all. We have taken a first step. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Stop making things ready! Do it, Mrs. Dr. Glamorous of the Greens, but somethin'. Nothing has come from you so far. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: I have put in a nice initiative proposal...!]] We are responsible for strengthening the gallery market. We are responsible for the fact that the museums now receive funds so that they can buy pictures themselves and thereby strengthen the gallery market. We are responsible for tax relief for artists. Who is it? - We or you? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What does the voters say?]] We are responsible for increasing and direct awarding scholarships and prices. Isn't all of this? [[Abg. Dietachmayr: tuition fees!]] We simply stand on a paradigmic change in art. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: For ambulance charges!]] We're not saying that the artist's dependence on the money giver's will should be in the foreground, but what do we want? – We want to create a reasonable environment for creative creation and creative work. But we also want the social security of artists. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What about the voters? What does the voters say?]] What's bad? Tell me something about it! Tell me a sound argument! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Don't have them!]] There will be 3 billion in 2001 and 2002 for art and federal theatre. The art section receives 14 million more than 2000. With this, Austria – like other countries – is clearly positioning itself in the circle of the leading cultural countries of Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Compare it to 1999!]] – There is no less than in comparable countries. We have a good budget! 14 months ago it was called, ladies and gentlemen, the art of the hour is either boycott or resistance. Boycott and resistance alone are not art – fact, but not art. Now I ask you: What happened? Are artists emigrated? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Heartless!]] Dr. Cap! Are artists emigrated? [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You're here right now!]] - No, I don't. Have theatre locked up? - No, I don't. Did international productions fail? - No, I don't. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Heartless cuts!]] Have you seen production highlights like "Die Möwe" by Luc Bondy? Have you seen the international production of "hair"? Did you see Vladimir Malakhov dancing in "The Mask Ball"? – These are really great productions. Where's the break-in? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] What is the boycott in, what is the resistance, what is the departure of the artists and the invasion of the cultural scene? – The Secretary of State has also taken a quick look at Mr. State Opera Director Holder’s suggestion to extend his contract. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Then why is Haider so dissatisfied?]] Not only will this be extended, but also the contract of the music director Ozawa. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Even without tender!]] So both of you stay there. Where are the international artists going? Let me quote André Heller, who is not really a friend of government, at this point. He himself – I quote – says: I am myself such a shy and perhaps anachronistic being that I am already well advised from this point of view to give tolerance and demand tolerance. That's kind of egoism, and I don't see anything altruistic about it. Tolerance and discussion – not a blessed art scene, but an open cultural discussion, creativity. This is the way of our government. Federico Fellini said – it is currently speaking at the Volksoper –: Those who want to implement reality must be visionary.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13286	The next speaker is Dr. Peter Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13350	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! You've got it yesterday. Your budget presented, Mr State Secretary, and the only thing that was right is the fact that you presented it. [[Abg. Achatz: That was good!]] Actually, you have to say: It's a budget of inventiveness, a budget without any vision. As the State Secretary, they do nothing but make savings in art. I haven't heard yet that in a budget execution, which has made a surplus of 1.5 billion schillings, you raise your word and say: Something should fall for art too! – I can remind you, the federal army has gotten a billion more, the agriculture 700 million more. For art nothing has fallen, but in art the savings have been completely carried out, in a brutality that it is indeed difficult for artists in Austria to continue to practice their profession. [[Abg. Achatz: Agriculture, not art!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Listen to the art scene! Listen in! Surrounded You're with artists, then you know very well what's going on in this scene. [[Abg. Achatz: Everybody stayed!]] But if you make yourself here and say Halleluja, as my colleague has already said to the Secretary of State, then don't talk about it, sing it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – So I think it would be really appropriate for you to correct your art understanding. The worst thing that can happen to an art hole in Austria is that it is declared a priority by this Secretary of State. The filmmakers were cleared, they don't know how to make movies anymore. Then he chose another focus: Dance. You can't even occur again! All the others tremble that they are declared the focus. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But go!]] Mr State Secretary! Please, stay. They are as visionless as you are, and do not give any more priority to anything, because the artists have not deserved to be given priority by you and at the same time they are not allowed to practice their art anymore. They are also characterized by the fact that in your own section there are fears and horrors. They solve people who have done excellent work for years on the basis of their qualifications, who enjoy the greatest reputation in the artists. Now you want to use artists, and it would not surprise me if one of your cabinet members would replace a very recognized, internationally recognized specialist in the art scene because, as I have heard, the call is already made to this person. [[Abg. Pistol: Name! Name!]] – Look at his cabinet, then you'll see who changes. It's going to be so far that you can follow this up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You give instructions, you take advice. Or can you tell me, on the basis of which recommendation you have made the selection for the promotion of 150 000 S for the Bishop Slatkonia Prize? Or on what advisory recommendation is the promotion of 200 000 S for the memorial monument to the Carinthian referendum? - There is no such thing as this. You act with instructions, you govern daily policy and the day-to-day business of officials, and you proceed exclusively according to the principle: I can't bite the hand that feeds me. – Therefore, only those artists get money that dare to say yes to their policy. What you call success is seen by the artists as a failure. Ask Mr. Menasse about the artist social insurance! They have created a climate in Austria in one year that renowned Austrian artists think about leaving this country because they are no longer able to exercise their art without any influence. [[Abg. Achatz: But there are all there! Everyone's here! Who? Who? All of them stayed there!]] This is your responsibility in the arts field. This is really a performance that is unique in Europe. Every other country in Europe is proud of the creative spirits of its country, of its ideas – even if they are critical. [[Abg. Achatz: Everybody's here except climate!]] Only you managed to get them out. [[Abg. Achatz: Everybody's here except climate!]] I have made the effort to study your not very comprehensive and in itself bad agreement on art and culture, your coalition agreement. From those points that are cited there, starting with public construction, art and urban planning, construction planning and architectural promotion, to expansion of the film location, to the expansion of media art to the special edition and deductibility of the expenses for art and provision of risk capital through venture financing and other creative economic measures you have always preached in every interview, nothing can be seen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where were you as Secretary of State?]] You didn't realize anything in this one year! You have not let visions into the budget, and in the end, there is not the creative economy that you have always spoken about. There are no tax measures. They did not provide "venture capital". You didn't create any funds like you always promised. You've only managed to miss the climate for art in this country, and that's also your performance for 2001.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13559	Mr Khol spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would draw attention to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13583	My previous speaker has said here that the Secretary of State has not caused any tax measures for art. I'll put it right: On the basis of the proposals made by the Secretary of State and the Federal Government, the tax write-down for artistic proceeds over three years, a long-standing demand of the artistry, was incorporated into the budget accompanying law. If Mr Wittmann had been as intensive in art during his State Secretary's time as he is today, it would have been better.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13632	According to the very strict rules of Mr Klubobmanns Khol, the last sentence was not part of an actual correction. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, no one was!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[State Secretary Morak is speaking.]] – Would you like to answer in a moment? [[Secretary of State Morak.]] Mrs Brinek, I apologize. The Secretary of State has priority, at least in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13712	Because this is always mentioned in the discussion: As far as the promotion of the bronze sculpture in Carinthia is concerned, this is, as in other cases, one of the numerous agreements between two regional authorities, in this case the State of Carinthia and the Federal Government, and is therefore not submitted to a advisory board. The second is the Bishop Slatkonia Prize. It always sounds so tight when you say that, so I want to explain it once: It is of course a price for modern church music. This prize, like many others, is set by a jury of its own. This jury belongs to the Domkapellmeister Ebenbauer, an organist, Hans Haselböck, composer Erich Urban and Dr. Franz Karl Praßl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13743	Mrs Brinek, you are now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13764	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government! Dear People's Lawyers! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! If you had more time, you could let your associations run free. A contribution by Colleague Cap, one of his colleagues Wittmann – one is reminded of a song by an audience of a third-class cellar theatre. You can vary that a little bit. I want to return to the debate on the art budget because the speech was that there was a lack of vision and that the current State Secretary of Robert Menasse would be criticized. I have come to realize that Robert Menasse's last essays for the assessment of the era of Wittmann are so embarrassing that I do not quote them here, because I care about political culture, language and spirit. So just as much as an indication. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as internal integration is concerned, the artificial budget contains a strong link to defined structures and thus a small margin for political priorities. I'm just reminding you, 2 billion for the Bundestheater act as a flow-through. As we hear, we can be calmed because the Bundestheater pays attention to a functioning autonomy and takes into account first experiences. I am therefore very glad that the Secretary of State for Art creates and expands these additional small spaces of play and sets priorities in the field of writing, in the field of sight, in the field of music and then in the area of the original experiences of people. I am also very glad that he is thinking about other participation models. We have heard that Graz, that the large Salzburg Festival House can be budgeted, renovated and remodeled by selling federal shares. You don't have to be afraid of these participation models. It is what can be described as a vision in the field of art policy and art promotion policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I also go with the interpretation, in accordance with the assessment of the Secretary of State, when he says: We define the self-esteem of this country about culture, but too much about what was, and too little about what is. In other words, we need to think about the promotion of art in particular, which we are further developing, how we can achieve a future relationship between state support and market adjustment. I now appeal to a thought I found at Alfred Pfabigan, recently in the "Spectrum" of the "Presse". He asked whether the Austrian art promotion or the debate on how the inquisition worked for centuries worked and should continue to work. It is open, and the author takes it justifiably, I mean, back to an Austrian history development, namely that the politically and economically self-confidence citoys and on his Visavis side of autonomous artists, who have moved and can move in the market, are missing, and that we must rapidly recapitulate this development, that art, art, art, market and money should not behave as the devil to the water of consecration. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] In this discussion, Mr State Secretary, which you are beginning to initiate and lead, I would like to very much support you because this is actually only entry into the development of modernism and not a return. Ladies and gentlemen! I am also very happy – and Robert Menasse, in his harsh criticism of former State Secretary Wittmann, did not quote – that Menasse, in the matter of artist social insurance – I would say it once in Vienna – has made a withdrawal because he wanted to seek something like the adoption from a solidarity community and mixed social security and tax. After the first storm, rest has actually returned. It has also taken some rest, because we can assume that the first impression that the prescriptions would have been overstated is only because from 2001 onwards the lower basis for contributions and the contribution grant can only be determined after the artists have been informed and that this is gradually happening. I am also grateful that everyone involved in this model will work very intensively on education and information and will therefore soon be effective this new instrument. I am very glad that we can continue with visionary art policy on the basis of a strictly structured budget and will continue to be successful in the future, Mr Cap. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hallelujah! Hallelujah!]] I can sing that too.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13814	The next speaker is Mr Brix. The voluntary speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e13856	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! During this period of government, the Court of Auditors' audits are more than important. I would like to say a sincere thank you here on behalf of my group for the many more work that the officials of the Court of Auditors have done. They do their work not only very neatly, but above all they help to show that where the money has been handled carelessly. In particular, there will also be raw reports, which are not yet final reports. Many are very opposed, especially when it is clearly and clearly pointed out who really were the debtors in the old government coalition who managed to create such debts through dramatic overrun of their budget framework. Two Ministries were in charge here: On the one hand, this was the Ministry of Education – if I think only of the Austrian gallery, I think that you went there on a big picture search; the pictures were not there, they were simply disappeared – and on the other hand, it was the Ministry of State Defense. There one now smokes much stronger tobak: Flyers are bought that no one needs that are even more expensive, the main thing that money comes in – and probably any ads for any magazines that can help. I would therefore like to ask the Court of Auditors – and he is already working on reviews of the government's advertising campaign – to examine this, and it will be ensured that the money has been thrown out of the window. That is why I am very glad that the Court of Auditors is doing a real audit in the interests of the Austrians. And not only does the Austrian Court of Auditors examine, but also our representative at the European Court of Auditors, Dr. Weber, does excellent work, as President Fierce also confirmed. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the near future, we will have to deal with something special – and it will be the subcommittee next week – namely the overpaid salaries in the ministerial offices, which the Court of Auditors already criticise. And if I may quote Mr President-in-Office of the last committee meeting: He said that the Court of Auditors, too, does not think that there are employment loans there. He meant – and I think I can quote him from memory – that ministers should earn more, they are doing a high level of work, and it should even create their own scheme for these officials. However, it should be assumed that employment contracts with other institutions are concluded, but that the people in this country are employed and that they also create jobs in the Ministry of Employment. – That would be right and decent in this Republic! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: How was that before? Have we invented the employment loan contracts? You are really Pharisees!]] Mr. Ofner! Bringing In Your Grandfatherly Ways She always has so much experience with her. I don't know if you did that as Minister of Justice. It may be. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: For 30 years...! And then you point to the others with your finger! Everyone knows what a double game you're playing! Everyone in there knows that, and outside, too!]] But can you imagine that someone deserves more than a minister? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Everyone knows that!]] Why are you so upset? You are probably jealous, because you can only earn 66 000 s of income, and they can earn 200 000 s. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do not rain yourself, but keep the Haiderian rule: Take from one hand the 66 000 S, and with the other hand take the 150,000 S you deserve, which you do not need to deliver to the party! This is probably the tactics of the Freedom Party. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! These polemics, these calls from the FPÖ show only that you become nervous when it comes to the Court of Auditors. And now something very bad happens. There's Mrs. Vice chancellor... [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Where is Mr. Westenthaler?]] Mr Westenthaler, I think, has lost a choice. He's crashed at the "Seaslaughter" pit, and since then there's no way he's gone. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] – We have the "Seaschaltgraben" in the district, where he worked as a guest worker. But there is Mrs. Vice-Chancellor who is now threatening that there should be no more Pragmatizations. It simply wants to abolish the Pragmatizations, because it may be possible to blackmail officials that they work freely and independently. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who wants to blackmail? Take it back!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We want the Court of Auditors to be protected. [[Abg. Böhacker: Mr President! That's unheard of!]] – I take it back: She does not want to blackmail her, she tries to influence the officials in such a way that they can no longer work freely and dependently. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: No, "press" is right!]] We Socialists support the Pragmatization of the Court of Auditors - in the sense of a review of this Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, allow me to make the following request at the end of the day: [[Quoted print version removed]] We want this country to be controlled by independent and honest officials from the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14027	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Brix is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Papházy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14071	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary Morak! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! State Secretary Franz Morakhat presented on Tuesday the Art Budget 2002 and the most important projects. For 2002 the art budget is expected to be nearly 25 million more than for 2001, and I am very pleased to see these 25 million schillings flowing into the reconstruction and expansion of the Wiener Musikverein. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Musikverein is for me personally the most important Vienna concert institution, and it is good that the federal government, the municipality of Vienna and the American artmaid Alberto Vilar together apply the necessary 260 million schilling. These flow into long-necessary improvements in the house and into the multi-storey basement of the courtyard. In this basement, orchestral wardrobes, instrument endpoints and the Alberto Vilar hall are then accommodated with 400 seats. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: We wanted to do that too!]] – That’s nice, Mr. Cap! The Alberto Vilar hall will also dramatically improve the sampling situation of the house because it simulates the stage of the Great Saale. As a Viennan, I am also pleased that the 30 million schillings, which will be rewritten for the renovation of the "theater in Josefstadt" and which are not necessary in 2002 will benefit the Vienna Philharmonic. In addition to the Musikverein, the Staatsoper is a major attraction in the Vienna Music Event. State Opera Director Ioan Holder and Chief Dramaturg Christoph Wagner-Trenkwitz offer artistic quality at the highest level. For me, the undisputed highlight of this season, Mr. Cap, was not the opera ball. Also for me it was not the opera ball, but "Die Jakobsleiter", which I order in front of the fantastic Verdi performances. I think it is positive that the State Opera has the concept of ensuring affordable prices for artistic pleasure. Artificial pleasure for large and small, standing place subscriptions and the children's cards around 200 S are very important points for me. [[Abg. Oellinger: Are we in an advertising event?]] I also find my own opera school to be useful because it increases the possibilities and flexibility of both the singer boys and the state opera, thus opening up potential access to an artistic career for more talented children. As a Viennan, however, I lack one, namely an attractive summer program of the State Opera, and I find the criticism of the State Opera at successful other summer festivals too little. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Right!]] As a Viennese, I also wish that the garden theatre in the Schlosspark Schönbrunn will become a reality and be re-examined in the context of the dislocation. Wiener Kultursprecherin von der FPÖ, Mag. Heidemarie Unplatzer, has already made himself strong for the idea of this garden theatre, and I think this is a very good thing for Vienna and for tourists. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I consider the current discussion on the extension of the contract of State Director Holder to be justified. The Bundestheaterorganisationsgesetz provides for a call for tenders. A non-political, correct call is necessary, even if orders can be made without application, as we can see from the law. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: But this was a massive criticism of Morak!]] I do not think that arguments such as "50 years of reopening State Opera" and "Mozartyear 2006" are sufficient. I think it is necessary that young, talented, potential successors can apply for the position of the State Opera Director, who can be found wherever they can, that these young talents have the opportunity to apply and thus draw attention to their abilities and knowledge. Mr State Secretary! If I have understood you correctly, I am sure, as you are, that the Supervisory Board will take place on 4 April. It will be a non-political call for proposals on April.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14167	The next speaker was Mrs Binder. Your watch will be set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14196	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I join in the interplay between art and the Court of Auditors and I now wish to dedicate myself to the Court of Auditors. The work of the Court of Auditors is very informative, comprehensive and, above all, very detailed. This is always to be read and understood in the reports. I would like to mention here the good cooperation of the Austrian Court of Auditors with the European Court of Auditors. Section head Weber represents Austria in the European Court of Auditors. I find it very exciting that Section Head Weber is responsible for the enlargement of Europe within the European Court of Auditors. President Fierce calls cooperation with the European Court of Auditors excellent and emphasizes the good relationship. Mr President. They pointed out that the European Court of Auditors' audit was carried out in Austria and, in parallel, the Austrian Court of Auditors reviewed the same matter. I would be interested only in the context of what these audit results are, to what extent the two audit courts come to common or equal results and where this is or would be understandable to us. That would be a very interesting question. Another issue related to the Court of Auditors and the new media is the presentation of the Court of Auditors on the Internet. The importance of this presentation can be seen from the fact that, according to President Fierde, there are an average of 1,200 access points per month – that is, an interest in the Court's work is very high. Another issue that we discussed in the Committee on Budgets is Pragmatization. That's what Mr Brix has already done. The statement by the President of the Court of Auditors is clear: Pragmatization is a means of protecting civil servants from arbitrariness. This is important and necessary because pressure could be exerted on officials due to their activity, for example on auditors and auditors in the financial office. – I think this statement is very important, in the sense of the Austrian population and in the sense of the truth and the Enlightenment. The last point, ladies and gentlemen: A major task of the Court of Auditors is to review the economic situation and also to review certain measures which the Federal Government sets out. In this context, I would remind you of a wide range of non-social measures: Ambulance fee, accident pension tax, loss of co-insurance, to mention only three points. They are well stained by a large-scale advertising campaign of the government – I would think – and presented to the population under the motto "social security". I recall yesterday's statement by the plain party member Haider in the "time in the picture" who spoke there of a "fullly careless advertising" - literally. Mr President. I would be interested to see how the costs are, the cost and the ratio of these advertising expenditures, on the one hand, to the costs and costs incurred by these measures. Put to the point: Do these atrocities actually work out when they are brought into proportion? What is the administrative burden, is bureaucracy and so on? Do they actually fulfil the basic idea of saving, or do all these measures only have the objective of bringing a deficit into the citizens' wallets and bringing about a lack of State services for its citizens and a lack of social justice under the guise of social security? Mr President. Maybe you can help bring the truth to light.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14248	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14269	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A successful day begins with a good news. This day is therefore successful for me, because today the debate on the budget has been opened, a budget for 2002 with completely new targets, with a modern, time-adapted approach, to a budget that is balanced, which, I believe, is a good budget for this country. The good news was the report of the Federal Chancellor on the Stockholm Council, in which he told us that there was a very intense debate on the issue of the future. Firstly, the issue of the financial and budgetary policies of the Member States was a central advisory area, and secondly, the restructuring of pension systems, particularly those relating to working time, was discussed. The Federal Chancellor also told us that in Stockholm there was a very intensive discussion about family and youth support. With this budget, which we are presenting today, the government is certainly going new ways, because we believe it is important to have a course correction here. You can also say, in the alternation of a proverb: One waits for the world to walk; the other approaches, thinks and acts. – That’s what the government is doing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I think you can be surprised by the opposition – that is the normal ritual – to criticize this budget template – even in the future – only if you talk to the citizens outside, you will be surprised – that is what you yourself will hear – how much understanding the citizens understand that after 28 years of re-indebtedness is finally ended, you would be amazed at how much understanding you find by saying: [[Abg. Oillinger: As in the elections in Vienna!]] It is right to stop using the future of our children and finally to shape this future. – This is the message we have! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The fascinating thing is not just the changeover to the euro, but that we are simply critical of the issues we are facing. There will always be the distribution discussion – no question! . but I believe that this proposal will once again be a reasonable step forward in developing the restructuring of the social system – that which we started very offensively with you in the 1995 coalition. I think it is right that we have discussed this very intensively in 1995 and 1997, and I think it is a duty for the current government to continue this issue accordingly. There can, of course, be a point of interest – that is not a question at all – but it is important to work on a goal. Of course, there are other issues, such as administrative reform, which has been discussed for many years. In short, it is a question of re-dividing the competences within the individual local authorities and of removing double-tracks. This will, of course, be a discussion within the local authorities – not a question – and also with the interest groups. But this is also a question of service rights, which has been discussed, both in the old coalition and in the government that we now have. Since Mr Brix has presented a motion for a resolution here today, I have to ask a few questions. He said he wanted to protect the officials of the Court of Auditors with this motion for a resolution. – I say: We protect all officials, not just those of the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brix.]] Further: What is the point, Mr Brix, of making this request? – Perhaps it is the press release of a gentleman you know well, it is the Pilz Member. He's not in the hall right now. He advocates the abolition of the Land Days, the Federal Council and the Pragmatization. SPÖ and Greens want countries and municipalities to collect taxes independently and more. Pilz continues to say – that's interesting, that's what you need to listen to! –: There will be a future without land days and without federal councils, and no one will go away! At the same time, he calls for the abolition of Pragmatization. Mr Brix! That's the messenger of your concern. That's why I think you should turn to him. That would be, I think, good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. You don't know, just believe it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are going into a new task with this budget. We continue this course, and we are at this course, for example, under the principle: Austria has built up a lot, has a lot to show, has an example effect throughout the world. We believe: Those who want to preserve good must change some things. – We do that with this budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14365	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Your watch willfully set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14386	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwalt! I should like to focus once again on the budget approach for the Court of Auditors in the field of the top institutions, which I will then refer briefly to the statements made by my previous speaker on administrative reform. It has been said today that the budget approach for the Court of Auditors has been increased. That is good, to which we can agree, this increase is justified. As one of its most important tasks, the Court of Auditors has the audit – or perhaps, since it is so modern today, it could be said with a modern term – the controlling of the Austrian company. The Court of Auditors is well aware of this task within the framework of its possibilities. The recognition of faults and misunderstandings in order to be able to counter them in good time – I say in time – is essential, and the audit work of the Court of Auditors provides the necessary documentation. However, it depends a little on the timeliness of control. This is not an accusation to the Court of Auditors, but perhaps rather an accusation of the budget approach or of human resources. I can explain this by an example. Not too long ago, we discussed the report on the award of contracts in the Federal Road Construction and in the Federal Building. There we were offered by the Court of Auditors alone with regard to the award of orders, which have revealed what is telling us. However: The cause of these abuses is five years and longer. If – and we have looked at this very carefully – the examination period for these federal construction matters has been eight months, only three federal states and only 40 per cent of the orders have been examined, if one calculates it highly – I think I quite remember, Mr President, that you mentioned the number of these examinations – one comes to 120 million schillings that could have been saved here. Three federal states and only eight months! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If this were to be calculated high to nine federal states and permanent controlling, we would not have to talk about ambulance charges today if that were complied with. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, an essential handicap, which I am constantly aware of in the Court of Auditors, comes the enforcement of the Court of Auditors' suggestions and reports. If one reads through the answers and opinions, to no more opinion at all, then I wonder if this is not really a very in vain effort. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). In this context, I have one more question: When will the "Euroteam" audit court report finally be issued? We always have only the raw report, which has been among the people for a very long time. But when will there be this final report? Back to the auditing and the tasks of the Court of Auditors. A modern controlling would also require a modern accounting system. However, what is happening in the state of accounting is really monarchistic. The camera system is ancient, and everyone who is a little busy with it knows that there is no modern management. That, ladies and gentlemen, would be an essential task of administrative reform! But you don't hear anything about it. On the other hand, the administrative reform has to date only heard the struggle between the liberal vice-chanist and the head of the ÖVP, which is only about who is securing more power, more influence, more competence in the context of the administrative reform. It has been completely forgotten that the lowest level, which is very much the most important, namely that of citizens and the communities, is no longer asked at all or is no longer involved in this administrative reform at all – unless one needs a payer or someone for work. That's where I hold it, what I don't do else, actually, very much – I quote here, so that I don't give a call for order – with the statement of the ordinary member of the party Haider, to read in today's issue of the "Kronen-Zeitung", which says: "The government is an incompetence of incompetent experts." - I don't have anything to add to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14457	Mr Kurzmann is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14486	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The autochthonic minorities in Austria are doing very well. We know that they are actually excellent in international comparison and therefore we do not need to look at the Balkans or in certain Caucasus ways. The level of funding for the groups in the budget has remained the same, as you know. There are no tensions in our country between the majority people and the minorities – on the contrary: Of many foreign visitors – whether they are Romanians, Hungary or Macedonians participating in the minority congresses in Austria – it is always heard that our country has a model character for the groups. Our group policy is often called in a breath with the Germans, who are also exemplary in promoting their small Danish minority. In the formation of the new Federal Government more than a year ago, it was not generally clear that the popular policy would be improved. In some Slovenian newspapers, fears were expressed, particularly abroad, that ethnic minorities would be disadvantaged by the new government. We now know that none of these fears has occurred or has been justified. In the meantime, all international observers have also noticed that this Federal Government has even enshrined a new minority rule in the Austrian Constitution. ==References== For example, the article 8 of the Austrian Federal Constitution was supplemented by a paragraph last year. This Constitutional Change, published by 1. Last August, the entry into force of this year, I would like to put this paragraph 2 literally: "The Republic (Bund, Countries and Communities) acknowledges its growing linguistic and cultural diversity expressed in the indigenous groups. Language and culture, inventory and preservation of these groups must be respected, safeguarded and promoted." Ladies and gentlemen! This was not the only initiative of the new government in this area. ==References== A regulation on the official names of municipalities in those regions in which the Hungarian and also the Croatian minority are located was adopted on July 1. 260 bilingual town signs were set up in 51 municipalities of the Burgenland. A few months later, arrangements for the use of Hungarian were also established for minority members in government contact. We Austrians need not be ashamed of comparison with other countries, but also with the European Union, as far as the people's group policy is concerned. We have the better standards. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Just remember, ladies and gentlemen, how badly the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights safeguards the rights of ethnic minorities. The most suspicious witnesses for us are probably those three men who have written the so-called sages report, Martti Ahtisaari, Jochen Frowin and Marcelino Oreja. The conclusions reached by these three gentlemen in their report on 8 October 1989 were as follows: Last September, I would not like to abstain from those who are constantly claiming that there is too little in Austria for the minorities. The three foreign politicians have stated literally: "The Austrian legal system has created a special protection for the minorities living in Austria. This protection exists at the constitutional level. The minority protection granted to minorities living in Austria by the Austrian legal system goes beyond that granted in many other European countries." - Quote. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr State Secretary! At the end of my speech, I would like to address very briefly a subject that seems to me to be of real importance, namely the new state archive in Erdberg. I have been told by historians that the proper ventilation and air conditioning of the state archive are in the arrogance. As a historian, who is himself active in a much smaller archive, namely in the Stadtarchiv Graz, this is a special concern to me, especially because it is a stock which, if they were really lost, would be irrevocably lost. I would ask you, Mr State Secretary, to ensure that these stocks are air-conditioned as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14560	The next speaker was Mrs Lentsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please. [[Abg. Lentsch goes to the speaker's desk.]] - Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, according to my records, you would be in a row. Excuse me a lot! Mr Herzegovina has now been notified to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14595	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been concerned by the edition of the "Kronen-Zeitung" by Mr Gaßner, that I would not have believed it otherwise and would never have allowed myself to say such a thing, but it is indeed so. There it says: "The government is an incompetence of incompetent experts." This quote, ladies and gentlemen, comes from the Preambel Signatory Dr. Haider. It is already spooky that no one on the government bank has the forehead and the power to say something about it. That's really incredible! And in the light of this qualification, that the government is an "incompetence of incompetent experts", we will be discussing the individual budget chapters in the next few days, page by page, point by point, chapter by chapter. This will be like a red thread through all debates: Is it really that way, the government is a "drumble of incompetent experts", as Dr. Haider claims? Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, I would like to give you an example of how members of the Federal Government deal with the National Council: In the Court of Auditors, it is Usance and a matter of course that the appropriate Secretary of State is present at the debate. At a meeting of this committee in the last week of January, Minister Bartenstein had been involved in a topic in the field of building in Lower Austria in 1995. There are a few shortcomings there, a few sluts, and the special thing is that Bartenstein himself was the competent State Secretary at the time. Minister was a certain Dr. Schüssel, but he already conceals himself to the present, so of course also to the past – has no future either, I add. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It would have been expected that Minister Bartenstein had the Courage to perform at this meeting of the Court of Auditors – it was not about special scandals, it was about a few little sluts – but the gentlemen of the ÖVP sent Mrs Rossmann of the FPÖ to the race as a representative. A representation is not quite unusual, for example, if a minister is abroad, but that was not the case, because Minister Bartenstein gave an ORF interview at the same time and performed Sallymutter shakes. The Minister for Labour has spoken against an employee representative! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] But this Grotesque, ladies and gentlemen, has another act. Then how was the plenary debate? How was that then on 1st. February this year in plenary? – A completely overwhelmed and uninformed Secretary of State of the FPÖ is sent as a representative, and at the same time, while the Secretary of State on the Government suffers, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ, Minister Bartenstein of the ÖVP and Minister Strasser of the ÖVP enjoys a beer in the cafeteria in Parliament. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! This is an example of disrespect for Parliament. And today the Federal Chancellor has the forehead to ask for constructive work and cooperation from the opposition! So this is white cynicism, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The population feels this, of course. The first invoice for this has already been presented at the Vienna elections. If you do not change your behaviour towards Parliament and opposition, you will be presented with further invoices of this kind!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14654	The next speaker was Mrs Lentsch. Your watch is now set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14675	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Volksanwalt! I will not go into the speeches of my previous speaker, because that was the purest polemic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to turn to the budget chapter 'Top institutions', in particular the Court of Auditors. As a member of the Court of Auditors Committee, I would like to thank you very much, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, your staff and your officials on my behalf and on behalf of my group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We all, and especially the members of the Committee of the Regions, appreciate your work and the quality of your reports. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The present 2002 budget provides for expenditure of 23 719 million ye. [[Abg. Swimling: 23 719 million euros?]] The fact that some 300 members of the Court of Auditors are 240 auditors speaks for a slim administration and for the efficient use of the funds. It is therefore also to be expected this year that the Court of Auditors, through its work, will bring more savings than it itself costs. One would even have to say: The more you want to save, the more intensive and the more often you have to use the Court of Auditors. The current Court of Auditors' activity report – which has been available since December 2000, but has not yet been discussed here in plenary – confirms this very impressively. On the basis of his work, additional revenue or less expenditure was generated at three-digit million levels. At Radio Österreich International alone, 48 million Schilling could be saved. Other reforms set up by the Court of Auditors, such as the car tax reform of 1993, have since brought about 200 million schillings annually in savings. This list could be continued at any time. However, I must say quite self-critically, ladies and gentlemen, that we sometimes make it a little too easy or a little too easy: if, for example, we entrust the Court of Auditors with a task without giving it the appropriate means or the appropriate instruments to do so, for example, in the Reference Act. [[Abg. Swimmling: With the money you're wasting, he can do a lot!]] I think it was useful to instruct the Court of Auditors to cover the income of managers in the state economy. However, it cannot be the task of the Court of Auditors to conduct processes to ensure that the persons concerned disclose their data. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] We as legislators must not put our heads in the sand, we must not leave the Court of Auditors alone! We should do two things at the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, we should implement its recommendations more quickly and more quickly – which is a very, very great potential for savings, and we must use this potential for administrative reform and for budgetary reorganisation – and secondly, we should not burden the Court of Auditors with things that go beyond the examination and analysis, as just as happened in the Reference Act. The fact that there are good laws, which are also implemented, is certainly not a matter for the Court of Auditors, as we Members are already called for.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14758	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch! Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14779	Mr President. High house! To the general budget, I would like to say that the government's burden policy continues in 2002, that – and this is the key figures – the wage tax has exploded by 18 percent in just two years from 199 to 235 billion schilling, that the wage tax rate is as high as never before, and that the wealth tax represents only 0.36 percent of GDP compared with that. Secondly, it must be said that revenue has increased five times as much as expenditure since 1999, so that there can be no reference to fiscal consolidation on the expenditure side. This is also confirmed by the ECOFIN Council of 12 March. February. He says that the budget is strongly influenced by income reduction and a strong rise in the tax rate, and that your social security means bad times for the "small people", for the sick, the invalids, the accident pensioners, the pensioners, the unemployed and the students. – So much to the budget in general. To the art budget, I would like to say that it is about within the framework of the fact that there is an increase of 1.8 million y this year, with regard to the fact that the Bundestheater has been stagnating for three years. You'll have to think about it. The other things have already been mentioned: that in particular the area of film and the new media has been cut by 0.582 million y, and this despite the emphasis, and that the 25 million schillings also flow more towards the previous year essentially into the conversion of the music club. That is to say, this is really innovative – and you, Mr State Secretary, have criticised your predecessor, Mr Wittmann, for this reason, often, even in the awareness of your possibilities for action, your limited possibilities of action – cannot be recognized either! You should have an eye on foreign culture policy, even if this is not your place of business. The closure of the Austrian Cultural Institute in Paris is an insensitive matter. I know it's not. Your place of business, but you should also feel a little responsible for foreign culture if I only think that cultural institutions, such as in Milan and Istanbul, may be affected by the closure. There you could approach my colleague Cap's suggestion on a foreign culture fund, which will pool and coordinate the funds of federal, national, economic and chamber governments and promote foreign culture. I would like to say what the social security of artists is all about, I'm on your side. I quote Peter Turrini – I don't want to hide that, that was a performance from you, Mr State Secretary, that's all right – who, even in relation to the Menasse threat that 50 artists would go abroad, according to my opinion, said he was paying taxes here in Austria, because he also wants to open up his mouth here! – I think that is a right point of view. However, he also criticised the fact that there would be a mountain of inadequacies and organisational chaos in connection with the new social security. To promote groups, we must say: It has been stagnating in truth for years. In particular for the radio groups, the promotion has been completely deleted. I really think this is an absolute inadequacy and a weakness when I consider that the government is spending 84 million schilling for its PR campaign, but has no 10 million schilling for its peoples. Finally, a few words regarding yesterday's events, the yesterday's call for order for Member Pilz's expression of one in the core of an anti-Semitic party. If someone like Mr. Landesführer Haider says that he does not understand that someone called Ariel can have so much dirt on him, if Parliamentary Pilz criticises this and receives a call for order – but this was not the only remark, there is also Mr. Westenthaler's comment on the Jews, namely that they had already received too much, there is Mr. Haider's remark on the east coast, there is the observation of parasitic elements which Mr. Haider also made; I have characterized this language with "Nazi language" and I have received a call for order from President Fassleven – then the Presidents of the National Council should also agree on what is a political classification and what is an insult or degradation or degradation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Mr. Principalorhorn speaks of a "two-class society" which is highly asocialized, speaks of "hormones" where it is said that it is racist, then names such as racism, nationalism, right-wing extremism, anti-Semitism and so on must be allowed, without this being thought of with the calls of order – I think this is very, very worrying. In this context, you, Mr State Secretary, have indeed... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Posch, your speaking time is over! Maybe you should consider that too!]] It's a voluntary speaking time, voluntarily! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You talk longer voluntarily! All right!]] You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have clearly distanced yourself from this oeuvre, and I did not expect you to do so. The Federal Chancellor did not do this to the same extent, although he said in the Committee on Budgets that he had already done so. However, on the same day, Mr. Landeshuptmann Haider claimed in the "Small Newspaper" that he had never said anything anti-Semitic, for if he had said so, he would have responded for a long time. That's just a fact! The answer to this kind of policy has, in fact, not given the completely unnecessary EU sanctions, but the answer has given the voters. And an answer – and this is a significant sentence that I have noticed – has given the advisor for science and culture of the Bishop of Graz, Mr. Harald Baloch, to read in the "standard". ==References====External links==* Official website March in the "Standard" in relation to this sentence: "He who drives a frivolous-aggressive game with the names of people has "threw in the mouth". And that's almost a question of order.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14838	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Ofner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14867	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I find it difficult not to deal with the statements of some of my previous speakers personally – but I do anyway! I can start with my immediate predecessor Posch. He complained that the funding for the group radios had been removed. It is also not quite right for me that she no longer exists, but she has not been deleted – I am allowed to help your memory – but it has only been granted as a start-up aid from the beginning. One can now cry about whether or not they continue to exist, but it has not been deleted anyway. Secondly, If anyone from the S & D party is motivating about the fact that the current Federal Government is promoting advertising, I may recall the all-eating saying "Shoes instead of traffic blinds" of the Minister of Transport, who has really already gone to the hammer for all of us, but has cost many millions and brought nothing to the Republic at all – perhaps an additional negative effect to the Minister of Transport, which I wish him, but otherwise nothing. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] To the previous speaker herbs: He has unwaryly come to speak once again on the election of last Sunday. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: "Unwary"!]] This election has not been a delight for the Social Democrats! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] – I would wish the liberals had cut off in such a way, I send it in advance, but also the social democrats with their mayor Häupl did not succeed in bringing the majority of the Viennans to the fore. The strongest party has been the Party of non-electors, far stronger than the Party of Socialists! If you put the electorate in relation to the votes for the Social Democratic Party, you realize that only 30 to 31 percent have elected social democrats. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like this for the liberals, but you must not pretend that the majority of the Viennans would have accepted you. Between 30 and 31 percent – a game of mourning. A bourgeois mourning game to talk to Lessing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The next one in government: my previous speaker, Brix. One can talk about whether employment loans are necessary in ministerial offices or not whether they should be or not. But today it's like it's 4th. Last February the current Federal Government invented the employment loan contracts is a bit much. In the last 50 years, it has been the social-democratic government members who have created this system for perfection and have yet to prove that the employees of the various offices are subsequently transferred to extremely high positions in insurance or banking. The prominent names that would be listed in this context are better known to you than me. Sometimes there have been pans. Under the pressure of the event, a poor devil committed suicide. But this does not change the fact that the way from the Office of Ministers to the Director-General's and Director-General's days of large banks and large insurance companies was set in motion. Now, if you're pretending to have invented that, and if it's been with you, loud councillors or councillors from your own house, I'm gonna have to say, You really can't believe this – no one in the gallery and no one here. The officials and all the others sitting there can only smile. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Now to the request you have made. I have a very differentiated picture of the Pragmatization and its need. I believe that Pragmatization is no longer as contemporary and no longer as necessary as it used to be. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: At the Court of Auditors!]] But I also believe that you will have to go here and especially exposed... – Mrs Mertel, I can easily overtone you because I have the microphone; [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Mertel]] You can talk continuously, no one understands you, no one hears you! I don't have to deal with it either. You'll have to differentiate. Especially exposed groups of officials – no doubt not only the judges and similar, i.e. judicial members, perhaps also executive members, but also the members of control bodies such as the Court of Auditors – will have to be assured, probably in many cases by Pragmatization as before. Many others will not need Pragmatization, as they have long since existed in many countries – even where they used to exist. But that does not mean that we will give our consent to an Alibi-Effekthashery like this five-seller application. We will be really differentiated and acting accordingly, because of the tires you contain, but we will not jump.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14960	The next speaker was Mr Kiss. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e14982	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! Over the course of today, three of my previous speakers have spoken on the subject of the ethnic groups. I'd like to replicate briefly. The last one to talk about it was Mr Posch. He has said something that is actually an destructive criticism of the former German Chancellor climate – after all, by the SPÖ. Mr Posch has meant – I quote – that popular policy has been stagnating for years. Mr Posch, this is a massive criticism of the German Chancellor's climate, perhaps also of his predecessor Vranitzky. I say in return: It may be stagnating, one can say, considering the era of socialist chancellors. No doubt she does not stagnate – and I am giving Mr Kurzmann the right to speak in his speech – since 4. Feber 2000 – I am still talking about it – because since that date a lot has been done about minorities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On colleague Stoisits: We're used to it already: Since 1990, I have heard the same sound record – Schelllack – that it imposes. And again and again there is a single demand in connection with the subject matter of the ethnic groups: More money, more money, more money! I have never heard of her a single constructive proposal on minority policy. But the record "More money!" I'm in the ear. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But you like to hear that!]] She has no other topic than to believe that if you invest more money in the groups, you automatically get something better under the line. We, the new Federal Government, ÖVP and FPÖ, have a different access to the People's Group Policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Hunger, then nothing happens!]] My claim was that since the 4th century. February 2000 more for the minorities in this country has been done than in 30 years of SPÖ Chancellorship, I would like to support it now. Mr Kurzmann was right to point out that on 13 March, he had not been able to do so. In July last year the first bilingual topographical inscriptions were revealed in Burgenland. Chancellor Schüssel was in Großwarasdorf and in Oberpulendorf, my home town. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Me too! We were both there!]] Harald, you've been there too. I saw you. We enjoyed it. Something has been realized in this House, which was not possible among socialist chancellors: the self-understanding of the State Treaty. We've done it within a few weeks. In 30 years of SPÖ-Kanzlerschaft it was never possible. This is the difference between the "government new" and what the SPÖ has represented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's the first time I've ever seen it. August last year was particularly proud, then – and Mr Kurzmann has mentioned this briefly – because the state target for minorities has been clearly and clearly included in the Constitution, which has brought a qualitative, as I believe, for all comprehensible leap towards improving the opportunities of the ethnic groups. Also that, namely the inclusion of the ethnic groups into the Austrian constitution, was not possible with a climate, was not possible with a Vranitzky, was not possible with a Sinowatz and was not possible with a Kreisky. - That's what we're going to do. Your political master book written! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] When I heard yesterday in the early radio – "Radio Burgenland" of course, which we of course hear Burgenländer in Vienna – I was proud to hear that the Ministry of Finance – and I would just like to say this as the last proof of what the new Federal Government has put on new ideas in terms of minorities – has imposed a multilingual tax burden: in addition to the German, of course, also in Croatian, Turkish, Slovenian, Slovak, and English. One thing, however, I would remind you now of the Minister of Finance's address – Mr State Secretary, I may ask you to take this ad noticingly; as a member of the Hungarian minority, it is for me: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker]] Hungarian is missing in this multilingual fibula. Mr State Secretary! I should like to ask that this be realized in the form possible at the next edition, that the Hungarian, after we are one of the minorities in this country, will also be realized. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Ladies and gentlemen. In conclusion: It's true what I'm saying: The ethnic groups in this country know that with the new Federal Government they have more opportunities, more rights and more tolerance. And this ultimately affects the climate in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e15083	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e15104	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! The Court of Auditors has seen a small increase in its 2002 budget compared with 2001 by around 1 million ye. He is grateful to the House for allowing him the opportunity to find out both in a personal and material way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I see in this, albeit minor, increase in the Court of Auditors' budget an expression of the recognition of the National Council with regard to its audit body. This has also been expressed in several speeches in today's budget debate. They thanked the Court of Auditors for their successful work, and I am very happy about it and see the confirmation that the National Council is satisfied with our work, which at the same time constitutes a motivation for the Court of Auditors and, of course, for its employees. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] I have also heard with satisfaction that, on the part of the Members of this House, it is thought that the Court of Auditors should first and foremost carry out audit tasks and not be burdened with non-exhaustive tasks. Based on these statements, I can make an appeal to the National Council that, in the future, it will consider in every law which provides for non-examining tasks for the Court of Auditors, whether it is really necessary to grant the Court of Auditors the same tasks that are not in line with its actual audit activity, especially as they also have an obstacle to those capacities which are entrusted with auditing tasks. High house! The increase for the Court of Auditors in 2002 in budgetary terms is also due to something else, namely tasks which have grown to it in recent years. I am here to mention in particular the audit activity of the Court of Auditors in connection with the tasks arising from the accession of Austria to the European Union. On the basis of the European Union's subsidies, another field of audit has been opened for the Court of Auditors, which it is also very active and committed, not only in cooperation with the European Court of Auditors. I can confirm here, as I have already done in committee, that: Cooperation with the European Court of Auditors is extremely good. The audit results written by the Court of Auditors in its activity reports reflect this good cooperation. It is also worth mentioning, however, that the audit activity of the Austrian Court of Auditors in the field of audit, which is the subject of subsidies from the European Union, has a positive effect on the fact that the Austrian Court of Auditors can in this way verify whether the provisions of Community law are complied with by the Austrian administration. The Court of Auditors therefore considers compliance with these Community provisions by Austria and by the Austrian administration to be particularly important and important because, when complying with these provisions, there is a guarantee that charges can be avoided by the European Union; for the European Commission is very hard in the context of the infringement of Community law. It is very quick to use charges if it considers that Community legislation is being violated. It is therefore a task of the Court of Auditors to ensure that no infringements are committed in this respect. The past has shown that the Austrian Court of Auditors was able to act very successfully in this area. In many ways, he could still avert allegations that threatened. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this way, the Court of Auditors was able to avert damage from the Republic of Austria. This is once again a proof that the Court of Auditors is doing more than it costs, as has already been very clearly expressed by a previous speaker. The Court of Auditors should therefore not only look at where the Court of Auditors could actually generate more revenue or reduce expenditure, but also at the extent to which damage could perhaps not be eliminated from the Republic in exactly quantifiable terms. Mr Gaßner, you have asked the question when the final report on the "Euroteam" will reach the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you: This report is in the final text stage, and I expect it to be presented to the National Council in the foreseeable future. Deputies! What is the particular problem with this report in drawing up the final text? On the one hand, it should be borne in mind that a large number of posts have been tested during this test. It is therefore not only an audited body but also several audited bodies, which is equivalent to the fact that, in the course of the opinion procedure, a large number of such audited bodies also submitted their comments to the Court of Auditors, which the Court of Auditors had to repay. - That's the one side. The second problem in relation to the report on "Euroteam" is that the Court of Auditors has tried to list an up-to-date state of recovery against "Euroteam" and the "Euroteam" group, as well as those repayments already made by "Euroteam". The survey of this current state of affairs is particularly difficult due to the wide variety of changes in orders received by "Euroteam" and the "Euroteam" group. The Court of Auditors is of course also interested in bringing to the attention of the National Council, as I have already said, an up-to-date record of figures, and therefore there are still some difficulties in the final stage of the editorial work, which, of course, are being mastered by the Court of Auditors, but which take some time to ask for understanding. High house! The quality of the Court of Auditors has been praised several times during this budget debate. I should like to point out once again that the quality of the work of the Court of Auditors depends on the quality of the auditors in the Court of Auditors. To a large extent, the quality of these testers is based on the assurance that they may and may proceed independently and independently during the test. However, the self-responsibility of the examiners and the critical thinking in connection with the examination work carried out by them also depends on the fact that the examiners may have the guarantee that no disadvantage may arise from the examination activity and from the criticism they practice. They must therefore be safeguarded professionally if they are examined and if they report on it. In this context, they must not only be exposed to outside influences, but must not even be given the impression that such influences could be impacted. In hardly any other area, as in the audit of the Court of Auditors, so – and this is my firm conviction – the professional official is appropriate for the auditors. In the opinion of its President, the professional official is the essential for ensuring the auditors and thus also for ensuring the quality of the auditors. [[I should like to congratulate the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions, as well as representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If a number of previous speakers have mentioned that Pragmatisation, just as it is currently present in Austria, does not have to cover the entire administration in the future – for example, Mr Ofner referred to it – I can only underline that. Pragmatisation is certainly being extended to an extent that is not necessary and not desirable. At the Court of Auditors, however, I consider them essential. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I should like to remind you of what I said in committee: Pragmatization in the Court of Auditors is not self-evident, but it is a means for the purpose. It is a means of maintaining the quality of the tests, the quality of reporting. I therefore support all efforts aimed at maintaining this quality, and I support the continuation of Pragmatization in the Court of Auditors, which is therefore fully supported by me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I should therefore like to appeal to this House: You also support all the efforts that are going in the direction of maintaining Pragmatisation in the Court of Auditors in the interests of the quality of the Court of Auditors and ultimately in the interest of our Republic and our taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e15220	As the next speaker, Mr Krüger is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e15242	Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President. Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr President of the National Council! I am actually an opponent of the argumentum ad personam, but today I would like to deal with his person and his role here in the National Council because of Mr Posch's contribution to the debate. I know colleagues Posch since 1994 or 1995, if I remember correctly. As far as I know, he was at the same time in the European Parliament next to his role in the National Council and has provided some headlines because he collected double references. I have now really observed Mr Posch several times, both in the committees in which I have been dealing with him over and over again, and here in the plenary session of the National Council, and I have to say that he is always dealing with only one issue. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Miss Vienna!]] – Mrs Mertel, you remember: "That would also be a possibility!" Of course you have "right"! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: It would be a possibility to have you with a Miss Vienna...!]] I repeat: I have only experienced him in the way that he always deals with a single subject on which it is about pouring the liberals indiscriminately. That's his only assignment and his only function! It is a pity that the Court of Auditors cannot judge the work of Members according to their quality. If this were possible, there would have to be a reduction in the references of colleagues Posch, who would never be prepared to take a stand in the matter, which is exclusively concerned with discrediting the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs Mertel! Today, Mr Posch has once again given a debated example of how he sees his position here in the House and in what he sees the sense of his activity and his function here in the House when he expressed his regret that there has been a call for orders for colleagues Pilz, because this standard called the FPÖ an an anti-Semitic party. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The attitude represented here by Mr Posch is exactly the attitude that led to the terrible conditions in Austria in the 1930s. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is the hatred that he carries out here and which he expresses by disqualifying a family community on a flat-rate basis. – Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, please take note! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With regard to anti-Semitism, which he accuses others here, he is really blind on one eye, for where does his indignation about the statements of Mr. Blecha remain? On the statements of Mr Blecha, who is known to exist But Israel wants to know, it is explained to us by the SPÖ here in the High House, in any case there has been an excuse to the ambassador. That's how you do it: On the public statements of Mr. Blecha, in which he wants to deny the existence of Israel, one writes a discreet letter to the ambassador, and then one believes that it is done with it. And what does Mr Posch do? He's hiding! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Sweamlein: Go Jaguar, you can do that better!]] Mr. Schwamlein! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Please, where is your indignation or distance afterwards?- Oh, my God! A second point: Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Your party did not hold back Simon Wiesenthal, who in his book rightly demanded justice instead of revenge to discredit as a member of a mafios association, and your party or your then clubman has caused it to appeal against Simon Wiesenthal even a committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: How's Miss Vienna?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Differentiate in your statements! Do not stand here as a great fighter against anti-Semitism! I also advocate the need to counter anti-Semitic currents – that is not a question at all – but, please, do not be blind on one eye and do not accuse a party, do not charge by the balance of a party's representatives by accusing them of anti-Semitism. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One last thing about Mr Posch, who here, hiding behind a quote, explained how to value one by name a ball horning. That's where you have to say: But that should apply to everyone! Ladies and gentlemen! It is still well remembered to me that at the time when Mr Gudenus was still in the National Council, a member of the Socialist Party, whose name was at least 15 times full of ball in his speech, spoke of Members as "good nut". [[Abg. Sweam: Well, God save us from Gudenus!]] He did this 15 times! Where'd you get your outrage? Is that not a ball horning of a name, Mr. Colleague? – Please, don’t measure with two measurements! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry, I'm sorry about my speaking time. I'm probably hard on the matter, but it was a need to say this to colleagues Posch in full clarity.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e15403	Ladies and gentlemen! Before I call the next speaker, I would like to mention two things: I have now been given the minutes of the morning debates by Mr Kogler and Mr Edlinger. Mr Edlinger, in the course of an interlocutory call to Mrs Aumayr, said: "Papagei"! – I consider this to be a violation of a Member's rights, and I would like to call on Mr Edlinger to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Sexist is that! Massiv sexist! Sexist macho!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's where the woman Mertel laughs! You like that!]] Secondly, Mr Kogler said clearly to the address of Mr Westenthaler: "If your wisdom" – he meant Westenthaler – "on the last Sunday it's that you're flying around with the Führer-Fibel..." I also give you a call for order for this division as a violation of Mr Westenthaler. Mr Kogler, you are still speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e15455	Thank you very much, Mr President. The granting of a call for order and the more or less humble taking note of it has not yet so much to do with the further giving of words to God. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Chancellor! My State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker said he was shammed by the subject; I didn't think so, I was very brief. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Wenitsch.]] That is, I think, the only basis of understanding we find. [[Abg. Young: Right!]] I'm going back to the real topic: I would like to join the President of the Court of Auditors on behalf of the Green Group in respect of the benefits provided by the Court of Auditors all year round – please stop your infantile calls! – thank you very much. [[Interlocutory call to the liberals]] The Court of Auditors is one of the most important institutions in this Republic, and it is also to be thanked for the fact that cooperation with the House could hardly function better. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In his speech, the President of the Court of Auditors made the essential point. It is only important that we remind ourselves of it again and again, and that is why I do it now – knowing that it is recurring, but adding a new aspect –: If we adopt a contract-limitation law with constitutional provisions, then it is also the duty of Members, especially those who have voted in a diligent manner – at least all the members of the ÖVP, who have already been sitting here in the House in 1997 – to show a little more empathy when it comes to complying with these provisions. I really do not understand that one organisation close to the EIA refuses to comply with these constitutional provisions. It is true that the Court of Auditors can only take legal action. He does so in an exemplary way and in the way that it is still compatible with his resources. But the fact that it has come so far at all has to do with the fact that some organisations, which, as has been said, are in part very close proximity to the EIA, do not want to comply with these provisions. And here I miss the call of the Constitutional Protectors in the ranks of the ÖVP. Last point: We now have to vote on the chapter Supreme Institutions and then on the Federal Chancellery. I would like to point out that in one case we will vote in favour because Parliament and the Court of Auditors are, of course, very important institutions which belong to the same doctrine. However, we see trends that in the long term the water should be excavated to Parliament, so to speak, resourcefully, while the Federal Government – even the old Federal Government has not clung to the glory of sparing; that is already true – is to be happy to be re-adjusted. At least we will not allow this to happen when, if we cannot prevent it here in the House with our non-existent majority, we will again and again point out this, Federal Chancellor. It is a problem if Parliament is constantly being put to the rescue and so to speak, morally appealing. Mr Krüger even put it so far in the Committee on Budgets that he meant: If the most difficult victims were admitted to the population, then Parliament must also save! – This is an interesting objection because he admitted the victims of the population at this point, but I emphasize: That leads to the dead end! Parliament must, of course, work efficiently, but on the other hand, that Parliament has a resourceful touch on the stuff, and therefore, in reality, in accordance with the Austrian real constitution, of course, we are going to face the opposition, which is all the more so, than is spent on the unscrupulous government campaigns. Federal Chancellor! One of these advertisements is logically the message: The state saves administration, politicians and bureaucracy. I would like to stress that with the politicians! You make such campaigns, I think, every year 50 million schillings out for this – I'm excited how this will look this year – and in your cabins you pay the most expensive staff. We will still have to discuss this in the Subcommittee. This discrepancy is not tolerable anymore. Therefore, we give our consent to the chapter "Top Institutions" and our corresponding rejection of the chapter "Bundeskanzleramt" and the following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e15520	The next speaker is Mr Amon. The clock is set to 5 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e15541	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of a long debate on this first budget chapter, which we are discussing, once again the repetition of the happy message: The 2002 budget has been the first budget without new debts for decades, ladies and gentlemen! And that is the merit of this new federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is indeed a paradigm change in politics. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Yeah, you've heard that a lot. And I tell you once again, I am happy to tell you once again, because this is a budget that gives the Austrian youth a future too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] You know, it was quite exciting to hear Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer today in the early days, as he said, of the total gains, which are now due to successful economic growth, full employment, nothing remained for the Austrians, because all gains would go to the pocket of the Minister of Finance. – But that’s wrong! These gains do not go into the pocket of the Minister of Finance, they wander into the repayment of those debts for which you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, bear the main responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Such a fool!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You sleepers! You slept 40 years!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I confess and admit: Only SPÖ members are even worse, because they have to pay in addition to the SPÖ party. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] You know, the superiority you have partly shown in connection with the Wiener Landtagswahl, was really interesting. I mean, we have been very successful in beating the Styrian country election: with an increase of over 11 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Exactly!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's the way it is: It was just a country election, as well as the election in Vienna. But one thing is really written to you in the main book here: Mr. Mayor Häupl, in a relative sense of responsibility, has joined the financial balance and in this way, in effect, has indirectly supported the budget projects. He has won the choice, you should be firmly behind your ears! Perhaps it would also be good for you to support our budgetary policy. .. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman. - Abg. Grabner keeps an issue of the "Kronen-Zeitung" with the headline "Riss in FPÖ after Haider-Schelte!" to the height.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] All day long, you have criticized the federal government's budgetary policy without introducing a single constructive proposal. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Read! Can't you read?]] – Mrs Mertel! I would have expected you to do something about it – perhaps wrong – but all day long you have not put forward a single constructive proposal. That's the real problem. They criticise the budgetary policy of the Federal Government, but have no counter-proposal. They criticize that we are not making new debts. The only proposals you have are: Continue as before! – This means making debts at the expense of future generations and thus, in reality, wasting away the opportunities for young people today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to say the following very clearly: They're talking about the state's premeditation. - We don't want to. We want another state. We want a state in which personal responsibility applies. We don't want a premeditation by the state. You want a state where everything is free – much in this context is for nothing. But we want to create a cost reality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] – You dream of past days, and we shape the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I believe that it is absolutely right to make a budget which, on the one hand, does not end up with new debts for future generations. Thank God we now have the first budget in euro. But it is also a budget that has brought full employment in Austria, without new debts. That is also written to you in the main book! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today's debts are the taxes of tomorrow, and the debts of today are also the unemployed of tomorrow. We don't want that either. Nevertheless, there is clear emphasis in this budget on future investment in the fields of research, education and infrastructure. This guarantees full employment, and this guarantees economic growth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Finally – and I really have to say that –: If one has heard today in the early honourable Member Gusenbauer how he has formally witnessed the decline in economic growth, how he has formally pleaded for the unemployment rate to rise again, there was almost the impression that you wish for worse economic data for our country! [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Edler]] But I'll tell you: This federal government will resist it!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e15755	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] We shall now proceed to the vote, and we shall now proceed to the vote on the opinion group I of the Federal Proposal for 2002. This includes Chapters 01 – 06 of the Federal Proposal in 500 of the Supplements, as amended by the Special Report in 540 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Consultative Group I of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? This is not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Brix and Mr Comrades on the guarantee of the independence of the Court of Auditors. [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman: Where is the Brix?]] [[Abg. Böhacker: (in the direction SPÖ) They don't even have a clubman! No clubman! No edellinger!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the opinion group II of the Federal Proposal for 2002. This includes Chapters 10 and 13 of the Federal Estimate in 500 of the Supplements, as amended by the Special Report in 540 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. Advisory Group XIII Chapter 70: Public performance and sport
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e15843	We are now negotiating the Advisory Group XIII: Chapter 70: Public performance and sport. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e15876	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Prolonged calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] [[Calls:Red Continue]] [[Abg. Edler: Vienna is red again!]] [[Further calls.]] Of course, there would have been a lot of interesting topics to discuss in the field of sport, but I have been specifically asked by the editors of two relevant magazines to comment again on the topic of cycling on forestry paths, because they want to continue to report on this – they have promised me – and of course they are also interested in what position is represented by the ÖVP and by the FPÖ in this important question. [[The speaker keeps the image of a forest road in height; three traffic signs are recognizable: driving bans Forststraße, including: "also applies to cyclists", including: "3.5 t".]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a photo assembly! Mr President, this is not a real photo!]] [[Further calls.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, it is absurd that hunting limousines and weights may travel up to 3.5 tonnes on forest roads, but cyclists who, on average, weigh about 80 kilos that are not allowed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a photo assembly! A turkish picture was that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the media are very interested in the proposal of the Socialist Group. That's a concept, a basis of action. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the relevant leisure, nature and sports magazines, such as the "Mountainbike Magazine" and the "Mountainbike Revue" want to know exactly how this continues. [[The speaker keeps these magazines up to date.]] It hurts you very much, Mr Westenthaler, when it says: The pressure will become so big, that people can no longer like it. In addition, the liberals have to decide at some point on which side they are on. They like to be youthful and dynamic. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why do you show turkish pictures here? You don't trust to show that again!]] Or, ladies and gentlemen, in the magazine "Der Naturfreund", a very busy newspaper, there are reports of cycling on forest roads. - Or: In the magazine "Land der Berge" you will find a very large article under the title "Unlogically and unjustly", in which it is said that the situation is illogical and unfair. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You can articulate yourself today – this is observed with great interest – and show whether you have a heart for the youth and for the people who like to cycle in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: (to point out the photographers in the journalist's log) "The press" brings your picture!]] The question of cycling on forestry roads is of course also a very important economic and economic issue, which has a lot to do with the budget. About a big article in today's "Kurier", whose title is: "Sport also brings the money to roll", many cyclists – no photo assembly, Mr. Westenthaler – are pictured. I don't know if you notice anything like that at all. That's what it says: "80 billion. S Value added, 100 000 employees.' And now it comes: So if it is said in Austria – and there are studies about it – that every schilling that is invested in sports creates, on average, 1.48 s of value added in the country, then I give the following to consider, ladies and gentlemen: [[Abg. Miedl: That's what you're getting late, Dr. Herbs!]] We invest in skiing in Austria, in the infrastructure for skiing, hundreds of millions of schilling, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor. There is a great deal of generosity in the destruction of nature, in hunting interests or in forestry interests. It doesn't matter. They say: This is necessary for skiing, tourism, sport, youth. Ladies and gentlemen! There is still another sports infrastructure in Austria. There is a wide-ranging forest network. It doesn't cost anything! You could use that. Why Give You're not free, Mrs. Vice chancellor? You still owe us an information. Under the title "Rad ban in the forest costs us billions" "Die Presse" on Wednesday, 25th. October 1st, that a biker magazine – and all those who are still interested in economic competence here – may have wanted to plan a big event in the Salzburg Lungau, which could not go over the stage because of the ban on cycling on forest roads. Half a billion shillings of value added have been avoided. It would have been 15 000 people at this event that took place at Lake Garda. [[Abg. Zweytick: And how did you behave at the "Austrian Ring"? How did you behave at the Ö-ring? And then cry for an event!]] – Ladies and gentlemen! Our tourism is not as good as it is that we can simply afford such opportunities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear colleague Zweytick! There is a constructive proposal from the Socialist Group – this also on the word "fundamental opposition", which we are so pleased to blame – and a very bold proposal has been prepared on a scientific basis. This would clarify the crucial question of liability for all time, because the forest roadkeeper would only be liable as he is liable for a pedestrian, according to our proposal. This would be a very simple solution to be achieved with minor legal changes to the road traffic regulations and the forest law. [[Abg. Zweytick: There's a big difference! Property!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is often very absurdly argued. Here I would like to read something from the ORF homepage of Salzburg: The general opening of the forest roads in the state of Salzburg for mountain bikers is unimaginable, says Max Mayr-Melnhof, the chairman of the Salzburg Forest Owners' Association. And now the reason is: It explains this with the high cost of maintaining the roads and roads. Wood transport and heavy traffic would cause sustainable damage on the forest roads. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever argues this way deserves no answer other than that of a reader who has immediately reported himself. He writes: MM's statement is a naughtiness. If heavy vehicles for wood transport cause high costs in the forest roads, then the Federal Forest itself should pay. This is a clear enrichment of what they are doing. Shame and take an example in other countries. There you can ride the bike anywhere without having to fear being shot by a prepotent nurse. - Quote. That's how it looks! And you, Mrs. Sports Minister, are required today. If you say in "NEWS" about the crisis in the FPÖ that you are in an emotionally difficult situation and cannot simply go to the agenda, then that is understandable. They say: In-house parties would have to face organisational and human consequences. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mrs Sports Minister! You can also draw the consequences of content! I'll make you a suggestion: Either hold the presidency in the Executive Committee for the 2002 World Cup for Mountain Bikers in Austria or continue to stand up for the roadblock for hundreds of thousands of cycling enthusiasts. [[Abg. Zweytick: Don't overdo that!]] Everything else is double-bedded, is unbelievable. You have to decide! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another indication of the credibility of the FPÖ in sports policy. Please, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, spare us and save yourself the lip recognition that party politics has lost nothing in your sports policy. When I think about the EM stadium in Carinthia, I would like to ask you: Just be honest and say: What Mr. Haider will buy me, I will. – That’s the situation with the stadium in Carinthia! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't want a stadium!]] Finally, two sports policy advices: Avoid a embarrassing push into the public's spotlight at the World Mountain Bike World if you don't have a heart for the cyclists, and don't say that you've lost nothing in party politics in sports as long as you're running a puppet policy for Dr. Haider here! [[Abg. Zweytick: It's an owner, my friend!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: The second own gate! Günther, stay at the football! Stay out of politics!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The government is an incompetent expert in the field, directs Dr. Haider. I believe that this statement will move like a red thread through the entire budget debate. I wish you a lot of fun.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e16142	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e16177	Ladies and gentlemen! My Styrian colleague, Miedl, will reply to the comments made by Mr Herzegovina. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Thank God, I'm not going to let that go. I'm allowed to turn to the public administration. Ladies and gentlemen! It cannot be said often enough: This budget is not only the first budget to be drawn up in euro, but it is also the first in decades to achieve a balanced balance. The end of the debt policy of social-democratic influence is the aim of this government. However, it is also a budget that is heading towards an efficient administrative reform. This path, too, means the end of a social-democratic dogma, which reads as follows: The state is the universal custodian for the citizen, and the citizen is the subject. This government wants to reduce the state exclusively to strategic tasks. The state should no longer appear as universal co-ordinators, but as coordinator. If the Social Democrats had already approved an administrative reform in previous governments, we would certainly have been able to give ourselves many savings packages. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is high time that this reform, which we have been discussing in great detail for almost 20 years, should finally become a reality. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! You are a guarantee of this, and it is also really high for you to count that you are deliberately faced with the problem of having the public hand's task and performance range thoroughly checked for the need and efficiency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Experts estimate the medium-term savings potential in public administration at around 50 billion schilling. We must finally benefit from this potential, even with regard to the European comparison with regard to the national quota, where unfortunately we are not particularly optimal. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me present you a comparison. Bavaria has 12 million inhabitants, and Austria has, as we know, 8 million. The state office in Bavaria has 380 officials, while our Federal Chancellery needs 675 officials. [[Call at the SPÖ: You can't compare that!]] The Ministry of Finance has 12 million inhabitants in Bavaria, with 450 officials, while we need 910. I could present you with all the comparisons. I have these comparisons from the website of the Bavarian State Chancellery and from our Federal Staff Information System. That's just for consideration. We must also be aware, however, that officials do not bear the blame for this dilemma in public administration, but it is ultimately due to us. We are the ones who "overwhelm" the officials and the citizens with the much-quoted, often conjured flood of law. But it is also due to the specific Austrian mentality of the official who acts in a similar way: First: He's only trained for this job. Another job doesn't come into question for him. Secondly, He's averse to making a change of place. Thirdly, If an official works in a ministry, he looks down at an official working in a subordinate department. He is unimaginable as a ministerial official, for example, to work in a state government. Or to put this one more floor deeper: A national official looks down on an official of a district office. [[Abg. May. Posch: Only when he works on the fourth floor, and the other on the third! If they both work on the third floor, he looks over!]] There the old principle of "the uppermost is the lower" is still practised. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: How do you know all this? Is that the official from you?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Cap, later! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's where the official speaks from you!]] Later! – Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! They have also committed themselves to the introduction of New Public Management. The New Public Management means a more effective controlling and more effective cost accounting, a review of the tasks for their need, a mandatory law-making cost assessment, what we have wanted from the ÖVP for many years, a comprehensive legal clearance and, of course, the elimination of double and multiple competences in the federal government or in the countries. Ladies and gentlemen! The universal cumulation of the state does not feel that the citizens are a protection, but rather a gross restriction on their personal freedom. Our responsibility is to free citizens, but, of course, the economy of the nonsensical state shackles. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government – here in the person of Mrs. Vice-Chancellor – is the guarantee that we will assume this responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e16291	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e16312	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! High house! I should like to take a very brief look at the speech by my predecessor, who characterizes officials by being marked by special locality. If that were the case, then the best official of the Republic would be our Chancellor, because he also does not want to leave the ball house square voluntarily. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] I would like to talk about something that is called "Fair Play", and this time I do not have to do with sport, but I would like to address the term "Fair Play" in the context of the service law reform and the university reform debate. It's going to be You may not be interested, but I go to sleep relatively late, and if I look out of my room, I can look directly to Innsbruck University. There at about one o'clock or half two o'clock at night in not a few floors still light up. These are the rooms of those university teachers who are now being debated and who are to be decided on their future. Since politics is supposed to judge reality, I ask you to take note of this reality and confront it with what reality at universities looks like. I would like to say that very strongly to you, because I know relatively well about the reality at universities from a wide range of points of view. First of all, a few numbers: 1 600 academics work at universities as private employees in two and a maximum of three-year-old projects – mostly the FWF – and continue from two to three years to the next two, three years – until there is a risk of chain contracts and they are no longer employed. Of 5 100 contract assistants and university assistants, only 760 are definitely written. This results in a sum of just under 6,000 undecided persons, equivalent to 43 percent of all academics working at universities. Of the rest of the Pragmatized, well over 90 percent are professors and habilitated. - That's what it is. The annual rate of fluctuations at the universities is – and I really have the most recent figures from the University of Innsbruck, which are about 14 percent transferable to all universities. 14 percent fluctuation per anno is a figure that can be seen in the private sector. Now, in principle, we are slowly getting closer to the truth, and I say that it is therefore most unfair and therefore also unscrupulous to claim that from the cradle to the Bahre all at the university are definitely stated that these are the so-called hammocks shakers, those are those who wait for nothing more urgent than for their retirement. I ask you – and that will be You certainly understand – not to co-port that anymore! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Until the final position – and I also know quite well whether you believe it or not – university law requires at least ten years to pass. People have already spent several years in private service relations during the recruitment, and one can choose from a relatively large group and therefore critical, with high latte. In these ten years until habilitation, two qualifications assessments are carried out, including some external or foreign experts. That is, it is unfair that without performance-oriented qualification standards and evaluations, the service conditions of these people are simply extended, extended, extended, extended – that is wrong. I am willing to talk about the perfection of these quality assessments, I am also willing to talk about improvements. But let's hold on – and everyone understands that, everyone understands, even now you will understand: [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Not everyone! You do!]] When talking about the workplace university, one would have to note that the right to serve at this workplace and the duties of the universities would have to be oriented. - That's reasonable, isn't it? That's reasonable. I remember the great dialogue on the university reform, to which the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor – I think it was in the redout halls. What did we get when we asked: What is to be improved by a new right of service? What should make the dissemination at universities better and why? – The answer – and this is not a polemic, but a meaningful quote – was: Because it's in the government program! – So at least this does not stand for scientific consideration unless you call the government programme a scientific work. But I have to say: She hasn't been evaluated. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the greens.]] If Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel says today in relation to the universities – and ultimately this also depends on the law of the service – there is no German-speaking university – and we can also expect the Austrians to be particularly pleased about it – which could measure with the 50 world's best, then I ask you again: Call me an Austrian company, an Austrian company that can measure with the 50 world's best! – I don’t know anyone; I’m waiting for your answer. But precisely in this reform dialogue, the sharpest and partly even more superficial – I say: in part – reports and criticisms against the universities from the mouth of representatives of the Industrial Union and the Economic Chamber, which should be more modest and more cautious in this case. But now I wonder if you want to have a new right of service: What are the requirements of this workplace, and what are the requirements of researchers? What periods do they need to grasp the state of science at all? In what periods can concepts be developed? In what periods can projects be driven forward to the maturity of publication? And so on and so on, up to the question: What a risk for individuals is to continue specializing, to know more and more of the less in order to remain competitive, and then to hear from the economy: You are so specialized that I She can't need it anymore!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Such considerations must be taken into account! I have already said x-times here that the economy and industry can offer a total of embarrassing jobs for highly qualified researchers. – What reason Are you talking about mobility and flexibility if nothing is done about it? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is, I think, also insufficient to hear simply as an impulse: We need more Nobel Laureates! - That's really too thin. It is also too thin to hear that fear of the workplace and insecurity are, so to speak, those criteria that are very creative and motivating. – I mean, you should think first, then talk and act. But it seems that's not your business. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I'll advise you: Try it in this order! – You will be surprised at what comes out of it, and you will be surprised that we may say yes then. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now, just before you say we're not making any new proposals: I believe that investment in research and performance must have prospects and have prospects for young people. I can imagine that a career at the university might well start with the doctorate if people are previously guaranteed that they can truly qualify and train themselves with good resources. Then you can talk about it. I also believe that then another qualification could be sufficient in a period of five to six years to achieve habilitation or habilitation-like suitability, and so to speak, if one wants to express it so antiqueally, to push the professor up. However, there should already be definitions here, even if one can still differentiate that power-dependent conductivity functions can be distributed and assigned, resource allocations and salaries can be cut down depending on performance. – For that I am to have. I am also to have for that definition cannot be called unannounceable, no matter what happens, unannounceability at any price, whether or not someone does something. But the perspective of the definition must be present. When you discuss these models with the universities, you will notice that there is no lobby of cementizers, but quite a lobby for reasonable suggestions. I am just telling you that reforms at universities, in their structures, in organizational forms and in their service law, should be established with universities in dialogue, not against universities. Then, I think it would be possible to achieve anything. I have not noticed much of that – that is the sad conclusion. People become restless. These are not Radau brothers, but these are those people who understand something about it, at least at a very high percentage. You should use this knowledge and then perhaps start a reform that will last for a longer time than your previously passed laws, which have started on and on under Busek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e16399	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. The clock is set to 5 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e16420	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grünewald! The measures put forward by the Federal Government at the universities should not be to the detriment of teachers and learners there, but to their advantage. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: There we are the same opinion!]] I think you should correct your perspective! But in facilities with drop-out rates of more than 50 percent, Mr President, there is a great need for reform, as you should see. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In her department, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vice-Chancellor also deals with the administration and within the framework of the Federal Government, the entire state reform. This Federal Government takes this issue seriously, it has also included it in its Government Convention. As agreed in the financial compensation, the savings in relation to the administrative reform will already amount to 3.5 billion in 2002. But this sum will only be the first step. At the same time, the government parties have already put in place substantial measures and started to impose sanctions. We have passed the Federal Property Act, the federal procurement company installed. Yesterday we debated the passport law, which will bring about significant administrative simplification. The government has passed an objective law. – All these things are seen as essential steps parallel to administrative reform. Tomorrow, Mrs Vice-Chancellor will also be able to present the outcome of the task reform commission. We will then see which areas the state will continue to have, which areas it will continue to manage and which will be excluded. Ladies and gentlemen! The main areas of freedom of reform in the area of administration and the Constitution will be to link savings with closer citizens. Reforms and savings must begin at the top of this, and this also means that we have enforced 100 million schilling for the parliamentary level against the opposition of the opposition parties. This also includes the fact that we start to slender with the ministries, such as the Minister of State Defense Herbert Scheibner did. [[Complaints with the liberals]] He has saved posts in the central offices and at the middle level for the benefit of posts outside the team and will divide them around. We also need to discuss the reduction of parliamentary bodies. The legitimate powers which have changed clearly since accession to the European Union must be included in the debate. We must also tackle the upgrading of the Federal Council; perhaps we will be able to win the Greens in future for this, because they are now also setting up a Federal Council for the first time. The integration of the national conference and the consultation mechanism – only to name two main areas – must be a priority in the Federal Council. Ladies and gentlemen! A clear catalogue of competence needs to be negotiated between the federal government and countries. The streamlining of constitutional law must be a clear objective of the whole debate. Independent national execution must replace the indirect federal administration, and the elimination of all double-tracks in the administration must be the goal of the Federal Government, in all areas. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Whether it is the social administration or the security sector is irrelevant. [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] We must tackle the development of direct democracy and start the establishment of a national administrative jurisdiction, especially in order to discharge the administrative courts at the federal level. And we also need a modern service right for the public service – and there I can attach to some of my previous speakers – and this is precisely the case of Mrs. Garant. A abolition of Pragmatization with the exception of some areas – it has already been discussed today: Justice, security and control can also be discussed – the objective must be. We must also make the District Headships essential and central to the citizen, with the principle of: The act is supposed to move and not the citizen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The implementation of the one-stop-shop principle, of e-government, new-public management, and how these modern words are called all, but they fit wonderfully into an administrative reform, must be the top goal. The first steps have already been taken. Ladies and gentlemen! You see, all this is a comprehensive matter that will still be discussed. However, the Federal Government will also step-by-step address these difficult areas. The aim of our policy, the aim of the policy of the liberals, will be to link the savings with the citizens' proximity to the administration. Many of these points, especially in terms of organisational streamlining, can be decided simply by law, and this coalition will do, and it has already done so; I have already mentioned some areas. Nevertheless, the opposition is invited to cooperate in the reform of the state and administration, particularly on the points to be adopted only by a two-thirds majority. There your consent, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, is necessary. The government and Mrs Vice-Chancellor have already taken the first steps towards this cooperation. The State Task Reform Commission – I have already mentioned it – in which people of yours will be able to cooperate tomorrow. However, discussions with countries and communities within the framework of the financial compensation have also brought initial results, and there you are represented with national leaders and other officials. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I am reminding you of the state reform, which has already been completed in the red and black coalition, and your basic consent to it. The realization that has been delayed for years will now be addressed by this Federal Government. Invited to this discussion are all parties, countries and communities, but also all the social partners and their presidents. We liberals, first and foremost Mrs Vice-Chancellors, will discuss this passionately, but also with the necessary serenity.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e16491	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e16558	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the Vickerl?]] Some intermediate calls are no longer transferable in infantility. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where's Vickerl? Where's your former boss?]] [[Call at the SPÖ:Where is Haider?]] Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! We have been hearing nothing from you for a year, nothing but words, nothing but announcements, and in fact nothing has happened in terms of administrative reform or state reform, but nothing at all. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr Colleague! I ask you, where did Ludevik stay, called Vickerl?]] They have not managed to present a final paper or to move one of your commissions to complete their activities with any statements. They have set up three Commissions and not a Commission to launch this administrative reform. They have set up three commissions, one of which is the task reform commission. All of this always sounds so eerie, just happening does nothing! You are making permanent announcements, but if you ask you for a concrete result, you give obscene answers because you are unable to mention a result. Mrs. Vice chancellor! You have put yourself in a situation with your policy that your ministry is the only one that has no result in administrative reform, no result at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Master Wittmann! Where's Vickerl?]] In this context, I should like to quote the President of the Chamber of Commerce. He misses the successes of the blue barge like the form of red paper required by him. – Zero has happened, you have done nothing at all! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Master Wittmann! Where's Ludevik?]] This criticism does not only come from us, it comes from the middle of the economy. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Humpi-Dumpi!]] I think you should set yourself a goal and determine what you really want to achieve. You always insist on commissions, you are constantly trying to gain time. Your own boss or whatever you want to call him, your "simple party member", to whom you give a lot of confidence, has said that the government has become an incompetent expert. [[Abg. Achatz: Where's your former boss?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is your simple party member?]] You employ three commissions, but you do not get a result of these commissions. They pay to Arthur Anderson 60 million schilling, but have no result yet. They're talking about a lot of resort projects, but they don't have a result yet. I emphasize: You don't have a single result yet! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where did Ludevik stay?]] You are talking about the results of the Commission on Task Reform, but you have no results yet and say you will only have a result in June. You told us the same thing last year! Which June do you think: June 2001, 2005 or 2010? [[Vice chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer makes the so-called disc wiper gesture.]] [[Embarrassment at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Binder: Mrs. Vice chancellor!]] They have no result in the field of state reform. You have no results! This should be held once from this point of view. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer.]] Yeah, you say a lot, but you don't have results. You promise you'll announce, but you're not able to do anything. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ and the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] Maybe it was what your "simple party member" meant: Perhaps you should get more results than let experts talk in the circle. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't vortex!]] You have started some projects in the ministries, but they are hopelessly "hungry", such as the "total" project of saving the district courts: no realization! [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the speaker's mouth!]] Hardly have you attacked anything, stay in the middle of the realization. What happened to the food agency you announced? - Nothing! You're the world champion in the announcement, but you haven't realized a single project yet. This is true of your own colleagues. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I note that a shoe doppler is due, Mr. Colleague!]] It is already in the media that this is true of your own colleagues. You are actually permanently engaged only in solving your party problems. [[Call to the liberals:Hasta la vista! Hasta la vista!]] You cannot make an objective policy because you are constantly engaged only in dealing with your internal problems. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Achatz: This is a beautiful Argentine costume that you wear there!]] You are constantly trying to distract yourself from having problems in the FPÖ. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Argentina!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hasta la vista!]] This does not interest the Austrian citizen whether you can solve your internal problems, but it would be very important if you could finally present some result for a structural reform. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Hasta la vista!]] I believe, however, that once you have a result of the Commissions, that implementation will not be possible, because you have already become nervous or the black heads of state are getting nervous because they have dared to criticize a paper. I do not know how you ever want to bring together a state reform if you are not even able to take seriously the criticism of national leaders of papers or take into account in your work. They use keywords like "slendering the state", like "saving the state", but they don't do anything! You've had a year now, but you haven't done anything. What you have done, however, is that you have created your own office for a ministry of 120 people in the order of 25 people. This is such an economy – and that is in no relation to performance – that one must clearly say one thing: You don't save yourself as you always announce it, but you blow up your device! I may present briefly how bloated this device is: In the past you used to drive with two employees to major sporting events, now 20 employees are from your cabinet to St. Anton was driving because it's so big, and that's at government costs! Faith You really think that's necessary? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] A comment also on the Ministry of Social Affairs: That's where you pay to top secretaries. 200 000 S payments She's a secretary. [[Abg. Haigermoser: In the year!]] The "poor" minister receives only 200 000 S! Don't be angry with me, but how do you explain to the citizen that you are saving yourself if you pay out the highest gift ever paid to secretaries in this Republic, even if you create the smallest ministry, but for that the biggest administrative unit? I know you're uncomfortable. You also got the bill presented for this. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the speaker's mouth!]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: Do you know the survey in Carinthia?]] Mr Westenthaler said here today: We're talking to the people! – Mr Westenthaler, people don’t listen to you anymore because you only announce! Evidence of this is the result you have achieved in Simmering. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I just want to tell you: What? You understand it by administrative reform, it's just head-rolling. They are simply trying to get over this administrative reform, to get some results from some commissions. First it is spoken of June, then it will be August, then September, and we will not see any results. The whole budget, however, is based on structural results. [[Abg. Dolinschek: You seem to me like a rumple!]] I've got to hold on to this. So far, nothing exists, not even a paper in which stands what you want. There's nothing there. And I'm already very interested in what comes out. I would like to mention two administrative reform approaches of your character: They wanted to be part of the administrative academy. What happened? - You didn't disburse her, you just abolished the director. Now the administrative academy has no director. Perhaps it's because you've only exchanged the director because he's a declared social democrat. You haven't reformed anything now because you still have the administrative academy, but you're sending a director to pension or early retirement. They have really managed to operate only with word aid and not to do anything like that. I can only remind you of what you did at KommAustria: They have set up two authorities, each of which deserves the one and a half of a section head. You just spent money and you didn't save anything. You didn't really try to do something at all. It would have been easy to take immediate action in some areas. The teachers are administered twice: at national and federal level. Why don't you save the federal level? That would even be in your area. If you're together with Mrs. Gehrer, you could do that right away. They have not solved the question of border protection in one year. You have to extend it again because you don't know what to do with the customs guard, how you want to bring it together with the federal army. - You don't think about it. You'd rather extend it. In reality, nothing just happens. What would have happened to the creation of a funding database? You could've done that in a year. You didn't do it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: God, let this cup of a Wittmann speech pass on to me!]] For example, why did you not gather the press departments of the Federal Ministry of the Press Service? Is it necessary to make a press mirror ten times? Why didn't we start the merger of the weather services and the integration of the federal laboratories? Faith You really think it's necessary to maintain your own army hospital? These were ten concrete proposals that you could all have realized. You're only about to announce! And I know now that we will hear something in June and something will happen in December. Then the papers are there, but there is no real implementation of these measures. In reality, I think it is high time you stopped spending the money on "mad ads". I quote your own head of state from Carinthia, who speaks of "insanity ads." – They are! You have money for that, but you didn't do anything. And this has to be held at this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e17006	Next, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e17028	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wittmann, I would like to thank you for your contribution, because better, more sustainable and clearer than you did, no one would have been able to represent the disastrous balance of 30 years of socialist government in that country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Wittmann. In summary, I have to say: Your allegation is that you accuse this federal government of not correcting all the shortcomings you have committed in that country in the last 13 months. In three years' time, I can tell you, we will have made reforms in this country, which you have not even dreamed of in the last 30 years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: This is not just the government!]] Mr Wittmann. As far as the quality of your information and your research is concerned, I would just like to give a single example: Mr Wittmann. You said here that I was in St. Anton with 20 employees. I'll tell you: I don't even have 20 employees in my office. From my staff was exactly one employee in St. Anton. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is embarrassing!]] – So much for the quality of your research and your accusations. There is therefore no further comment on your comments. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He is used to this from climate, there it was 40!]] In your remarks the word "Bundes Staatsreform" has fallen. I am very grateful that you mention this. The state reform has been discussed in this country for 20 years and – I know from my own time as a member of the Austrian Federal Council – has always failed exclusively with the resistance of the SPÖ. They have broken off any advance towards the state reform that has taken place over the last ten to 20 years, whether from the countries, the federal or the parties. You've smeared him because you said: We do not want to change anything in this area! I also know why you've always said that. The position of the Social Democrats in this context was always that of saying: We do not want to distribute competences according to material criteria, because in the countries we are not at all strong enough to be able to exercise power there. - That was your only motivation. That is why there has been no state reform in that country for decades. Now she'll be there. I guarantee you that! If you have asked what happened in the last 13 months, I would like to tell you that a number of initiatives have been taken. Mr Bösch has already mentioned many of them. To the Commission on Task Reform – I told you four times yesterday – we are now the fifth time, but I would like to say it again, Mr Wittmann: Tomorrow, the Commission will present its report. The company Arthur Anderson, which is not I, as you have said, paying – even this was a embarrassing search error on your part – does not plan and write on papers, but is already working on implementing reform measures in a very concrete manner. For example, what is happening in the Ministry of Defence, namely a restructuring of its own department, the administrative area there, is just too exemplary. I have not seen anything like it in 30 years of socialist government in this country. At that time, the number of sections has always grown larger and not smaller. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They say again and again – Mr. Grünewald, too, has done so – that what is planned for reform measures, such as the university reform, is directed against employees in the public service. Mr Grünewald, nothing can be more wrong than this claim. The aim of university reform is primarily to guarantee universities autonomy, autonomy in research and teaching, and thus the free choice and design of research and teaching. I believe that it is in the interest of every teacher, every researcher at the university, to stop being run by the administration, not to be dependent on political influences in this area, but to be able to decide freely. This is the meaning of this university reform. That is why it is correct and necessary, and we will implement it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As far as higher education law is concerned, you said, Mr Greenewald, that I would have co-imported something that led to the definition of people being like hammocks. I do not think you will find any comments on higher education law, even one that goes in this direction. You know that we are in negotiations, only yesterday did a round of negotiations take place. You know that we have solved the problem of trust protection that you have mounted accordingly. In the sense of the proposal that came from university teachers and assistants, we have solved this problem, that is, it is from the table. There is actually no other reason to mobilize here and come up with threats of strike, because the demands you have made will be fulfilled anyway. What has happened in recent months, also within the framework of the administration, in addition to the projects in the individual departments, which have already been presented in detail here or are still being presented by the individual meeting ministers? . We have further expanded the project help.gv, which you do not think to be unknown, Mr Wittmann, because it is already from the previous government, by the way, a good project. We have said that this should not be an initiative limited to people who have Internet access or a PC at home, but the whole population should be given the opportunity to have faster and more direct access to administration. Therefore, in conjunction with the Austrian Trafiken and in the near future also with the post offices in Austria, we have provided the possibility that there will be direct access to the electronic administration in this country for every citizen. Last year alone we had 4 million accesses to help.gv. We only started the help-business.gv.at a few weeks ago in addition to the Trafiknet and the Postnet, but obviously you don't particularly know what's happening around you. Help-business.gv is a business advisor for 30 business-related situations. Businesses are granted direct internet access in the area of reporting information, local tax declarations and similar things. There are also applications in this area. This is an essential discharge of the administration and also of companies in that country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the right of employment and remuneration: In my opinion, it is undisputed and should also be undisputed that "New Public Management", modern administration, also requires flexibility in the field of service and remuneration, in the sense that performance criteria are rewarded and not according to criteria of age or party political membership. That is the primary objective. That is why we are also discussing the question of Pragmatization, of official status, in those areas where there are contractual alternatives. I come back to the example of university teachers. Professor Grünewald! All over the world, there are excellent universities, Stanford for example, Harvard, Princeton, the Sorbonne and many others, where it is not necessary that professors or university staff in the field of research and teaching have a pragmatic status or a career. There, excellent research is being done, where excellent teaching is taught, leading the world. You cannot explain to me that the quality of research and teaching at Austrian universities depends on official status. It is not, neither at universities nor at schools nor elsewhere. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is particularly true at a time when it is no longer the subject – this is an essential area for me, and I also feel that it is a real progress for the employees in the public service – as it has been in recent years, in the times of Mr Wittmann and his comrades, that the prerequisite for a career in the public service – you laugh, Mr Wittmann, everyone knows that this is the case – is that you have the right party book. If you look at the staff policy of the last decades of government under social democratic leadership in this country, you can see that it is no coincidence that leading officials in that country belong to all certain parties, because they had no other chance at all. These did not go to your party out of conviction, Mr Wittmann, but perhaps only because they knew that they would never have a chance to make a career that corresponds to their performance and qualifications. This must finally end in this country, and we will also clean it up. In the future, objective criteria will be employed, promoted, and it will also be possible for officials in their career without a party book. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This objective law is of course something you do not like because it represents a philosophy that was never yours. And I would also like to add that what is now being tried, namely to talk the law with false arguments somehow ill, is also wrong. What Mrs Prammer put together yesterday, namely that the equal treatment law is in any way affected or challenged, is – I say it again – simply and simply incorrect. The Constitutional Service itself has found this, and I hope that you will believe it if not me. As far as sport is concerned, I have already given a very detailed opinion yesterday in the context of the discussion on the sports report. I have mentioned our priorities in the sports resort, namely the issue of top-level sport, the pre-introduction of young young talent in top-level sport, the emphasis on youth sports within the framework of competence centres and the fact that the field of disability sports is finally to be put on a legal basis. The autonomy in sports – and this is my request to the autonomous area of sport, on which your speakers always place such great importance – must not lead to the exclusion in the area of BSO associations such as the deaf association, also from the distribution of the special sports promotions. This cannot be in the sense of the autonomy of sports, and I ask you to take this into account, also in the associations in which you have something to do. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Wittmann is always so anxious to know what is going on in paper. That is what I am asking, Mr Wittmann: What has become of your white book of sport that has never really really really seen the light of the public? After you've never even derived a single consequence from it, I'll advise you: Start with yourself once to take stock of the three years or so in which you have been in this function. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, I would like to say to Mr Herbe, who has kept his monthly mountain bike speech here: I honor this commitment to mountain biking in Austria. However, I would like Mr Herb not to put on me what he has to do. I have already said yesterday that there is a subcommittee in Parliament, that is, at the level of this House, which deals precisely with this issue. On the issue of roadblocking: I would ask you to do something to Mr Herbe, because he went right after his speech and has not returned to the hall since then. Mr Herbes has claimed that I am in favour of the barrier in this area. – That’s wrong! First of all, I am not in favour of it, but I am in favour of deciding on what path to open up for mountain biking according to objective criteria. Secondly, this cannot be decided by me, but by the Minister for Agriculture, who is responsible for it. I would just like to tell you that, with the support of the World Mountain Bike Championship in Kaprun, I have set up the largest initiative for mountain biking in Austria that has ever existed in this country. Never before has the money been spent on the mountain bike sport in Austria as much money as at this World Cup, which we expect to be a good world championship and bring many interested mountain bike athletes to Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e17180	The next item is the speech by Mr Lexer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e17202	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ and the opposition as a whole – as I mean, not quite wrong – are criticizing the principle of "speed kills" in politics. It's a lot too fast. It's a mistake. [[Demonstrative applause with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Greens.]] I believe that there is a grain of truth in it, and I am glad that Mrs Vice-Chancellor says that this is going to be a little slower in the future. Dr. Wittmann! I do not understand, however, that you are going out at the same time and that you have been criticising for a short time after the new government has been formed, that everything is too slow for you – and that in the field of public services, you know that this is a very sensitive area and that we need to work out the concepts here in the event of changes with those concerned, so that it is really useful to implement them. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: That's more than a year!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: You don't know what you want at the SPÖ!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have to choose one of the two if you criticize. Send You at least always get two different people out, then maybe this is still quite credible. [[Abg. Böhacker: A double conference maybe?]] – In any case, we are not under pressure. I believe that sound work is important in all areas. Now on my topic, on sport: The donation of the sport remained roughly the same in the 2002 budget year. This actually means upgrading this area in times of saving and consolidation. However, I would like to take back this positive view insofar as I believe in total that we have a too low sports budget in Austria. [[Abg. Leikam: Reinhold, who doesn't listen to you! They don't listen to you at all!]] Of course, we also have to count on the expenses of the countries and municipalities. Nevertheless, I am convinced that it pays off to invest more in sports, in all areas: in top-ranking sports, in broadband, in classic sports and in trend sports as well as in wellness and health care. Savings do not always pay off in this area, because restrictions can further slow down and even stop positive developments. But because additional expenses are not possible at the moment and we can no longer loosen money for sport from the current budget, I believe that we can also think about a gentle increase in revenue. I am thinking in particular of the field of sports betting offices and sports betting on the Internet. I believe that if we are going to act emotionally and do not overstep the businesses, we could also benefit from around 100 to 150 million schillings for sports, so that – I would suggest this first and foremost – we can support the sports associations and make this money available to them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: If this doesn't take away the Stronach!]] The professional associations in sports are the ones that bring the quality in this field, which means that we have athletes who deliver the highest performance that can achieve great success in the world. In my view, an independent body could also decide and advise on the exact allocation of these additional funds. I think that the stakeholders, i.e. those who work in this area, can also have a consultative role here. Variety is another term that should apply in sport. It is particularly positive if the Austrians can choose from a wide and diverse range of sports. It is therefore necessary to reject the linkage and harmonisation of our sports associations. Through a wide-ranging sports organization, this diversity has been created primarily, and this is very useful. Not everyone should get the same chance in the sports area, but everyone should get their chance, according to their ability, according to their individual possibility. Therefore, a wide range of offers is very positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Overall, I would also like to achieve politically that the entire Federal Government and not only the Minister for Sports is devoted to this issue. It is important that the sport in all areas is intrusive and leads to additional benefits. I'm starting with the Ministry of Health: It is clear to everyone today that targeted investments in this area can avoid follow-up costs. This means that investments in sports reduce to a high degree of expenditure. Preventive sports not only cause healthier people, but also enable cost reductions, as a study impressively proves. The economic benefits of sports amount to around 7.8 billion schilling annually. On the other hand, the follow-up costs of sports accidents with approximately 4.15 billion schilling. Thus, the adjusted total economic benefit is around 3.65 billion schilling. This value is based on the current level of sports practice. If one imagines that this is still to be increased, then this study comes to a saving potential of about 11.5 billion schilling. I think these figures can really impress our Minister for Finance, because it is certainly not easy to find an area in which you can actually save such a large amount of money and proveably save it. The foreign exchange "Give sport a schilling, and you save yourself two shillings of social costs" is at least covered by all studies. In my view, another factor can also be found in the field of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. For the exercise of sports, people today need support from professionals. I think that there are very many opportunities for additional jobs in this service area and that we can create valuable jobs with a great value added here in particular. While we know that in the course of the administrative reform in the public service or in the field of schools we need to make personnel savings, there would be many additional jobs in the field of sport, leisure and fitness society. After fiscal consolidation – which we hope we will soon have achieved – if we will again bring some strength and more scope into politics, it will, I believe, be necessary to reweight and pump more money into the sport. I do not need to focus on the importance of sport in tourism. Here we are certainly aware that sports offers are an essential part of our tourism offer. At this point I would also like to address colleagues of herbs: It is, of course, legitimate for him to say the same thing again and again. This is just so in politics that, no matter what the other one says, one repeatedly makes allegations and repeats them. That's why you're not getting any more correct. I am very clearly saying that the ÖVP is not against the fact that additional roads and roads in the forest area are open to mountain bikers. We simply do not want a general release and a general opening. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want a controlled opening in which all parties involved are involved. I believe that if you are really interested in a solution, then we can agree as far as we in the Subcommittee are concerned, first of all, that all that concerns the federal government – namely that the free mountain bike streets and paths should be regulated throughout the country – should be resolved in the federal government. Everything else, however, we should usefully delegate to the regions, because there are the people who are affected there. No one prevents a tourism region from creating a special focus to be internationally competitive. I think that the focus is less on sport and cyclists than on the SPÖ's anti-property attitude, in particular that of Mr Herbe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to mention the Ministries for the Interior and for the National Defence because they have a special position in sport. On the one hand, many top athletes from this field celebrate international successes. On the other hand, the officials, the employees in these ministries also do valuable work for sport, in the performance of major events. For example, last summer I saw at the Iron Man in Klagenfurt that no fewer than 1,500 soldiers of the Federal Army were in use to support this event, and I also saw in St. Anton the use of the Austrian soldiers in the piste preparation. I believe that there should be some thanks in this area too. We can't thank these people often enough, who are here in total for sports and sports events. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The reign by the Ministries leads me to a key ministry for sports and its success. I mean the Ministry of Education. This is where the sport activity begins, where the foundations for the later sports setting are laid. I think that we should be here in the future, when we have the opportunity to invest again, for the training and further training of our teachers and for the use of additional sports professionals. I very much hope that in sport we will also create the so-called turnaround and come into dynamic concepts, which on the one hand relieve the public sector and on the other hand also employ private companies. I think sports is good for everyone. It is very positive if a society moves when vitality prevails when overall performance is shown. Therefore, sport, I believe, is important for all, for our Austrian people and for the good of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e17347	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e17427	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It was expected that Mrs Minister, especially in the field of barrier-free design of sports equipment, would not include anything in this budget. We didn't expect anything else – we were promised something else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Vice chancellor! If you have always been talking about promoting the sport of disabled people and what you will not do for disabled sports, then, I believe, what you would have to do with the highest priority would be to ensure the accessibility of sports facilities, because if sports facilities are not accessible free of barriers, it will not be possible for disabled people to do sports there. You are still guilty of creating this condition. You will probably now refer to the fact that the federal sports centres have been distributed et cetera, but that is too little for me! You have promised, and you have not fulfilled the promise to ensure the barrier-free design of sports centers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister! It would also be very important at the time – and Mr Grollitsch will hopefully agree with me – that in Austria it will at last become a reality that at large events – no matter if they are national championships, European championships, World Championships et cetera – not the so-called non-inhibited sports are placed in first place and the disabled sport is only second place. It is absolutely not to be seen, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, why, for example, at major events in the field of disabled sports, where the same services are usually provided, can not take place parallel to non-inhibited sports, but only some weeks later, when all cameras, television, the media are gone again. It is only then that disabled athletes can use these facilities. Mrs. Minister, this is unsustainable! Mrs Minister, this has nothing to do with integration, but it is the further form of isolation of people with disabilities, which has been abandoned. And there, Mrs. Minister, you can do something because They are those who are also responsible for what means which organizers receive. You, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, can say, under what conditions who receives what kind of support, and I hope that something will finally happen in this area too. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They also addressed the deaf sport and were quite surprised that the deaf athletes are still not included in the Bundessportsverein. [[Deputy Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: I will try to change that!]] You wouldn't have to be surprised! [[Abg. Böhacker: No one was surprised!]] This too has been known for years that deaf athletes strive to be finally included in the respective associations. You've been with you, too, as much as I know, and they've been talking to you. It was just promised to them – but only promised. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: The BSO is that! I can't do anything there!]] You may also be able to influence it, because you know very well that the person who gives the money can also understand certain decisions or certain guidelines. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: No, this is an autonomous association!]] Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, you are also very forceful in other areas, so why not? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Vice chancellor! The next championships will certainly come, and the next championships and major events will also come in the field of disabled sports. I know what the athletes will then flower again. They will flourish with what they have been dealing with for years: You have to go beg to get at least one uniform sportswear. – That should not be anymore. In the sports reports we get every year, there are always inside, how many medals for anything and how many eyelashes and banners have been purchased. This can be quite interesting for those who collect such trophies, but, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, there is something more important, and I hope that we will also find this more important in your sports report, which we will receive next year, and that for disability sports there will also be the amount of information he deserves quite simply. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I am coming to speak in an area that is very important to me personally, and that is youth sport. Many may not know, but I have been funding various sports groups and especially youth sports for years. Youth sport – the boys so to twelve, 13 years and also the girls – is because, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, the individual large organizations that grant funds may have a small amount for everyone, but only not for the young sportsmen. I believe that if we want the children to remain healthy in the future – and sport also contributes a good part to health – then logically we also need to see the need for action and to promote youth sport accordingly. Unfortunately, he's too short. This also applies to the sport of disabled persons, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor. You will know, there is again the wheelchair tennis open in Salzburg in September. This is an international event, and the organizers are fighting today for every schilling they need for this big event. I would like you to show yourself generously and to make the means available, because it is really embarrassing if today international top athletes – and especially in wheelchair tennis, as you know, we have top athletes; it is even the world third Austrian! – must go snoring so that they can pay 10 000 S as a premium for the first at an international tennis open event in Austria. That's fucking little. Especially wheelchair sports and generally disabled sports, it would have been necessary for the top athletes to be equipped with appropriate premiums, as is the case with non-inhibited persons. It's really nice when the ministry buys a medal for any events, but rather save the money together, don't buy medals, instead You can get out of the disabled sport with cash, because then you can really stir up a bit more there and then it would be possible that the disabled sport would finally be equated to the non-inhibited sport at least in a smaller area. Finally, I would like to say to you: I will follow very closely how big and how open your ears and above all your budget for the big event in Salzburg are, and I am curious whether it is more than a lip confession that you will be generously supporting this event, or whether we – and with "we" I mean: we have to go back to wheelchair sportsmen today already to collect and snorse everywhere 1000 S, 100 S et cetera in order to be able to finance this big event. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e17535	The next item is the report by Mr Grollitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e17557	Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know if you have done so in the speech by Mr Wittmann: That's where the fairy tale of the rumpel trick came to mind. The speech is also not worth commenting on. It was his billing with his past. But Mr Wittmann said something interesting two hours earlier, Mrs Vice-Chancellor. He has said that you - and with this he has addressed Mr Morak and the entire government - are ruling into the day-to-day policy of officials! – Mr Wittmann said that, and the Minutes will be my witness. He said: They rule into the daily policy of officials! – Why – this is what the attentive listener asks – does the luckless ex-state secretary come up with these statements? What happens in the head of the unfortunate ex-responsible for art and sport when he asks the government to leave the officials in their day-to-day policy? Is the conclusion, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that the luckless Mr. State Secretary has faithfully surrounded his socialist predecessors with officials of his color-shadowing? And does not, as a result, insist on the assumption that the same officials with the same color and the same political orientation are engaged in daily politics in the sense of the divorced State Secretary? In short, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor: The socialist sport nomenklatura continues to hold Austria's sport in its hand. Whether they are top officials or association presidents, they prevent the development of Austrian sport with their laity. The shadow sports minister is actually Mr. BSO-chef Löschnak, and his handcuffs, who enjoy their own vainness in the courts and in the heart of their individual areas, are the actual authors of the fact that Austria's sport is not going so well. The vanity that surrounds it, the security with which they appear, is set out in a paper. This is a contract between the then Federal Chancellery and the Austrian Federal Sports Organisation, which sets out where to transfer the special Federal Sports Promotion. This stands there in concrete terms and has been continued unchanged since 1970, only the respective departments have been exchanged. We know what unfortunate path sport has taken through seven different resorts. So there it says: The Federal Chancellor's Office transfers one dozen per month to the following division of the Federal Sports Organisation, the ASVÖ, the ASKÖ and so on. It is noteworthy that a control committee should control the allocation of these funds. In this control committee, there are ten voting rights, and these ten voting rights cover exactly with those organisations that receive the allocations. In the Control Committee, three persons may listen as advisory members, two from the Federal Chancellery and one from the Ministry of Finance. The BSO is also entitled to replace the staff costs for the provision of these activities, i.e. for the provision of the money, with the replacement of the staff costs, with the replacement of costs for foreign contracts, with the cost of auditing the control commission with travel and meeting costs, et cetera. On the basis of this paper, for years and decades, politics has actually been completely deprived of the opportunity to make sports policy choices, to form priorities and so on. Instead, the money in the special sports promotion – as decided in the budget – is to continue to be delivered according to a clearly defined key. I am very excited about how the left-hand third will act when voting on this budget, which is still going to take place today: whether you will vote against exactly what you yourself have designed and what is still to be written; whether you reject it or whether you are in favour of it. If you refuse, I will draw your attention to the following: Mr President, two years ago, Mr Lösnak sent a letter to all sports clubs, in which it was said that the evil liberals voted against the sports budget, that they were against sports promotion, that they were against sport, and they were against the clubs. Do not drive it so far with a rejection of this budget that we too are required to send similar letters! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e17618	The next item is the speech by Mr Grabner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e17639	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The difference between Lexer and Grollitsch was that Lexer was concerned with sports and Grollitsch only with politics. That is why I believe, even if we do not agree everywhere, that is what we can say. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! We practice criticism very often, but we also say thank you very much when it is necessary – for the first time. They say again and again that the Social Democratic Government has made many mistakes in 30 years. I agree with that, many mistakes – but as many mistakes as this government made in the one year, the Social Democratic Government has not made! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Say a few!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Compared to the previous year, the sports budget is reduced by 16 percent, with an impact above all in the investment sector. The question is whether the quality in sport can be kept with it. I am also of your opinion that we should try to get quite a lot of major events to Austria. In the next few years there will again be many major events in Austria. [[Abg. Zweytick: The Parliamentary Tournament in Vorarlberg!]] For those who have participated, I would like to say thank you, on behalf of the sport, for the fact that the advertising for the non-profit sports clubs has finally been done. I think this is very, very important. [[Demonstrative applause with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With regard to the important issue of sport promotions, without which a high-performance system for training top athletes would not be possible, priorities are in the areas of top-level sports, youth sports, basic sports and also in the field of disabled sports. Many activities for this are carried out by the roof associations. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But that's yesterday's speech! You said that yesterday!]] Also a thank you for the excellent work done by the sports aid! It hasn't changed in there. Toni Schutti took over the position of the managing director. He understands to continue the successful work, as the positive echo has shown to the event "The Night of Sports". You have said again and again, your group: less state, more freedom! – But in sport now, I think, always tries to make a state sport. I quote: This process has signs of old state sports. – President of the Union and Deputy Head of State Prokop. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf holds a "yellow map" in the direction of the speaker.]] Or: In principle, I would like to point out that both the Austrian Olympic Committee and I are open to any reform. But the concept here is clearly influenced by the state and does not fit into the sport and has nothing to look for there. The self-management – come on! – will continue to exist in sport. [[Call to the liberals: Who says that?]] – President of the Austrian Olympic Committee Dr. Wallner. No Social Democratic! Or: In principle, the General Sport Association regrets the failure to take BSO into account on this issue. That is, basic sports Austria, top sports Austria, youth sports Austria – there should have been a meeting today, but it has been cancelled. The sport still wants to talk – of course, all the suggestions together with the sport! But that the program is simply put on the table and the officials should take note of it, we cannot, of course, go along with it. The President of the General Sports Association, Dr. Wainig, is also not a social democrat. I could also quote Vice-President Dr. Zeh, who is also the chairman of the New Summer Sports Committee in the Austrian Olympic Committee. Everyone's defending themselves! [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: Against what?]] Today you will have received the letter from the Federal Sports Organisation, in which the trade unions defend themselves against the manner in which this is currently being carried out. I hope we can deal with this. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: (in the direction of the speaker) What are you talking about, Noldi?]] From what you seem to have no idea! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Sports and legislation: You may also be able to say here – because the representatives of the Bundesliga were with all sports speakers – as it looks like with their own sports law. This is very important for us. There should be less money for the anti-doping committee. Why? Why? This is very important especially in today's times. After all, many athletes are controlled during competitions and also in training. I think that's very important. Ladies and gentlemen! I still have an important concern. [[Abg. Zweytick holds a document on which is printed in large block letters "Important".]] I think we should all join together. [[The speaker takes a stand and looks at the empty government bank in demonstration.]] [[Call out to the liberals: we listen to you!]] [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: (returning to her place) It is not forbidden, however, that I speak with my officials and ask my question for you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: It is also not forbidden to wait!]] [[Deputy Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: It's his speaking time, not mine!]] In Germany, the Ministry of Sports has awarded a research contract: "Study on Club History during the Nazi Age". The beginning of Borussia Dortmund was there. Many officials who had been elected to the sports clubs – also in Austria – were discontinued. I think it would be necessary for a research contract to be awarded here, as in Germany. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenitsch.]] I hope that we will continue in the future – and if you do not take it seriously a thousand times! – in the interest of the tens of thousands of volunteer officials for sport will take place together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have done a lot of things in common here, and I hope that will be so in the future. Because you keep going to the roof associations, I would like to tell you today again that the umbrella associations are always ready to adapt to the new circumstances. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: That's me!]] I gave you the sports manager last time. Today I would like to hand over to you the record which has already been revised for the present time. [[The speaker presented a CD-ROM to Vice-Chairman Dr. Riess-Passer, who is sitting on the government bench.]] I hope we can achieve a lot here too. So that even Grollitsch, although not a sports speaker, has a little idea, I can now give every sports speaker and the chairman of the Sports Committee such a record.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e17870	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e17891	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grabner, in contrast to some of your previous speakers from your group, you are really credible for me. You're a sports officer. I take it from you that you are acting with body and soul for the officials of the sport. That sounds credible, and your concerns also sound credible. I would just like to say one thing, Mr Grabner: No one has anything against the roof associations. I have not heard it out of the mouth of the vice chancellor – she can defend herself – and I myself would also like to be careful that you submit to us that we have something against umbrella associations. They are necessary, and we need them in the interests of sport. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grabner:... have I said of you!]] I know, Mr Grabner. But we should also consider whether the structures there are still up-to-date. I would now like to say to two social-democratic speakers something that is very important to me. [[Abg. Grabner:... I am your opinion!]] I also praised you, Mr Grabner, because I believe that you are credible in the area. This is where the Secretary of State, Mr Ex-Sport, goes, roars as a implementing lion, demands things he would have had to do for himself for a long time, and then disappears so to speak. In reality, I have the impression that he is not at all interested in how the skills of sports go. He just shuddered around once. [[Abg. Achatz: He's in the cafeteria!]] Probably because sport was never really a concern to him. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes, yes!]] That is the main thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have also observed Mr Wittmann at several events in Styria. There he appeared and flew back there like a swallow in the summer, and that was essentially it. He did not leave a lasting impression, nor did he leave any new structures, in the sports area he missed on further route. [[Abg. Leikam: In your opinion, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor is now at the top of the Arlberg!]] We climb the mountains with Mrs. Vice-Kanzler rather than with a State Secretary Wittmann. Let's be glad that this era is over, ladies and gentlemen! Now to Mr Herzegovina, who is no longer present. He's giving his Monday speech – today it was a Thursday talk – his weekly, I say, he's trying to get the whole Parliament and then he's gone. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Can you say something about the matter?]] In fact, he does not care what the officials of other political groups say about it. Now I would like to point out to the Social Democrats that Mr Lexer has already said a few things that are very correct First, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, please be careful, we are talking about the property of third parties. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Can you say something about the matter?]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Or only the colleagues criticize?]] We as the ÖVP simply do not allow this to happen over the property of third parties! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Lexer mentioned it, and that is the position of the ÖVP: Yeah, we're for an extension of the mountain bike routes, and we can't get enough of it. Only should we consider, ladies and gentlemen, what the sportsman and the sportswoman at all want. What Mr Herbe has formulated, in fact, the athlete does not want to do. Who wants to cross-field, cross and cross forests and drive on forest roads? - No one wants that! You need infrastructure, ladies and gentlemen! They need signposted routes, they need a hotel industry, they need a gastronomy such as in the federal states such as Tyrol, Styria or Carinthia, in some cases already, in agreement with the farmers and forest administrators. That is a question, ladies and gentlemen. It's not easy to get over it and find that we should do it, whether the farmers or Forestrymen are for it or not! Ladies and gentlemen from the Socialist Group! Let's not forget. The Forstweg is the workshop of these ladies and gentlemen! The forest path is the workshop of the forest farmers and farmers, and we cannot simply have the property of third parties here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the competence of the federal government in sports matters is going to end. We have discussed this a number of times. I believe that with its sports policy, the federal government really has to do with all its efforts, not only for economic reasons – this has already been tailor-made a few times today, among other things by Colleague Glavischnig – but also because of the high social and integrative function of sport. I think top sports are really necessary in order to take on role as a model and to stop the youth from playing sports. I am also quite honest with you that I am convinced that sports are depressing violence on our youth. And since we discussed drugs so intensively yesterday, I want to say that sport also has one of the addiction-preventing character, in any respect, whether the alcohol is... [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Football Stadium!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Doping!]] Of course, Mrs Colleague, Doping – we should also try to counter this. The sport activity is of course also best suited for health promotion measures. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Vice chancellor! With Austria-Ring as a top sports measure, we have a worldwide shop window, a shop window in the whole world. Two billion people see this sporting event. We have enormous value added in the area. The only thing that Mrs Wittmann and Mr Klima have promised us over and over again is that they have never actually come to Styria, namely the promised 120 million schilling. [[Abg. Definitely incorrect!]] Mrs. Vice chancellor! I would like to thank you for the fact that the discussions with you are now getting serious and that in the Styria we can expect that there will also be a contribution by the federal government to the development of Formula 1 sport in Austria. [[Abg. Gaál: 150 million who have come!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e18105	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e18126	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! To the sports budget, you could say the same thing as yesterday on the sports report – of course, the same – but only in a very short form, because otherwise it would probably be a little fad. But the argument that the special sport promotion is not broken down in the sports budget is, of course, also applicable to this budget. I take note that the next budget will be that on which you will really be measured. We will once look – if it is designed accordingly, we can agree to it. On the debate between Mr Grollitsch and Mr Grabner: I have to tell you, Mr Grabner: They told me in the committee that the problem is that it is supposed to be not just the means available from the special sport promotion, but that the clubs, the umbrella associations, should generally disclose their conduct. I'll give you the right not to do that. [[Abg. Haigermoser: There you have to be for the doping story too! How is that now?]] Now you've just been outside, colleague Haigermoser. Before you went out, you've set ringing gestures. Now you continue with your completely infantile calls again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The question is open!]] It is not simply with such colleagues in the Group, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, is it not? It's hard, isn't it? But, Mr Grabner, I think it is justified to look at what hundreds of millions of schillings are used for here. I also questioned the billing of recent years in terms of sports matters. They did not present the billing, but yet figures – alone, even that is relatively thin. For example, 30 million schilling for sports venues still says relatively little if it is not readable from what is done with it. I believe that it is really necessary here to finally achieve transparency. If that is the case, then we can discuss the sports budget and an agreement on our part. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: We'll do it anyway!]] However, I wanted to come back to a point that I made yesterday in Question Time, and I would like to try to present it to you again because the answer has gone by. So I'm trying to figure out the problem again: In the junior football we have the situation that there is no limitation in the leagues for non-Austrian players. There, non-Austrians can play freely until the age of 16. And then there is the break in the statutes: At the age of 16, if they are non-Austrian citizens, all who were previously eligible for play will be divided into a special category: They are no longer normally eligible for play, but they are only "equivalent" to the Austrians. If they were really equal, you could say: Okay. However, this equality is restricted. And see: Teams in which many foreigners – foreigners now played in the sense of non-Austrian citizens – are forced to structure differently at one time. [[Abg. Zweytick: Non-Austrian citizens must be said quite correctly!]] Correct! Non-Austrian citizens! They are forced to look for another club where they are then entitled to play. From 16 years of age, only more than five such players are allowed per club. Now comes the OFFB story again. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: As in UEFA!]] – This is not a UEFA rule! If you look at what comes from the European Union as regards the sports directives, please note that it has been precisely asked to eliminate these discriminations in amateur matters. It's not a UEFA rule at all. You know very well that the system in the First Football Division, which is currently in place and going, is not EU-disputed. The First Football Division has a limitation on EU foreigners – see "Lex Lustenau", who have received a million and a half schillings in order to play part in this EU-disciplinary regime and do not bring an action. So there's a lot to do. It is clear that we do not make the statutes of the ÖFB, but we have funding structures, and both the ÖFB and the BSO and the other umbrella organisations receive massive funding. The political responsibility would be to set at least the framework conditions so that these – and I really say it – can be eliminated. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Let's start with the art promotion!]] That is why there is also the possibility of promoting and thus introducing directives. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You should do this in the promotion of art!]] You said yesterday: It is not possible to solve the problems of young sports by naturalization. You could really discuss that. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] It is really to be discussed, but the problem is: Amateur football really has nothing to do with the professional sports club. That really is a very different category. What we demand is that, at least in the field of amateur football – this is limited to the regional league – there is complete equality and that no one should be restricted and excluded from any dubious regulations of any associations. And in that I see the task, the They also have to ensure that by means of support policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But you also represent a second area, namely that of public service. This also includes education, especially teachers. In principle, I would like to say that it is clear that we are very different in our view about savings in the field of service law, but I would like to say that we are very different. You would like to ask: What are the criteria under which these services are actually put in place? One has the impression that teachers in Austria actually deserve a lot, and that is the reason for having to cut in massively. The OECD studies are always used by you, and everything possible is quoted, even if the comparability is at least to be questioned, but if you look at salary trends and if you look at how many Austrian teachers deserve in the international comparison, you have to note that according to OECD study, teacher incomes, especially among entry salaries, are located at the bottom of the average and not anywhere at the top. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You get in at Level 4!]] That's from the OECD study. You've quoted them several times, maybe you can also pop them up and read them, you'll find them there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Do you know at which level you get in? You didn't know it yesterday!]] This will not be too difficult, Mr Schweitzer. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yesterday you did not know!]] Now the sweater – once the Haigermoser, then the sweater – screams again, that's kind of like the Muppets show. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Because you don't say many things there!]] But please, let's just leave it that way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What I would like to know about you is: What specific structural measures... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Mr Brosz, what level of salary does a teacher enter? You know that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: This is "Austria Rerule"!]] Are you saying that your group will not let you talk about the need to intervene on a permanent basis? Maybe we can spend some time talking? This is really annoying if you do not try to get involved in the current discussion. You're talking about something completely different. But most of the time, you probably don't know what it's all about today. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You didn't know that yesterday and not today!]] [[Abg. Schasching: An NLP seminar gets too much!]] You might somehow be able to ignore that mentally, I'm going to try. How does your model look? Which structural models do you propose? What is administrative reform? How does it look that – someone from the SPÖ Group mentioned earlier – the administrative structures in the teacher administration are still divided, that there are massive problems when it comes to using spaces really efficiently? If there is a primary school and a gymnasium in the same city, but one of these schools does not have a gym, it will still be more likely that there will be new buildings in the school in question instead of doing so efficiently. That would also be the task of administration. I don't know how you see it, you didn't declare yourself – but it was always the principle: The primary school is the primary school, where those who are supposed to go from your point of view, from the perspective of the government parties – you have not declared your view, but at least your colleague Gehrer has said that again and again – are simply not so gifted. Here we do the primary school and over there the gymnasium – colleague Amon always emphasizes this –: A clear separation is very important! Here are the shots, there the fewer shots, according to your diction. In my view, when it comes to learning and social learning, these terms are not justified at all. But in this area nothing happens, structurally nothing happens at all. There is no attempt to continue, for example, the "school experiment middle school" in Vienna. That would be starting points. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: After why? Because the results were disastrous!]] That's a sweater again! Typical! Look You're going to study and you'll see that's not the case! But here it would be really possible to conduct an efficient school policy without having to try to cut in the law of the AHS teachers' service. And that's what I'm with you again, Mrs. Vice chancellor, because that's exactly the point. You can't do that and you can't say: I do the right to serve, but otherwise the AHS is the responsibility of Mrs Gehrer, and all of this has nothing to do with each other. I mean, that's not how school policy can be pursued! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Instead of truly massive – let us say it so carefully – spreading a mood that is extremely harmful to teachers in this country, it would be really more useful to look at the structures and find ways of making effective use of the existing ones. You have this, not you personally, but especially ÖVP Minister Gehrer has always refused it. It has not started an attempt to somehow get out of this situation of a separate school system. But that would really be necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e18440	The next speaker is Mr Ortlieb. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e18462	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! "It's a sport, because it's an important thing for Austria," says Claus Reitan, editor-in-chief of the Tirol daily newspaper, recently named an editorial. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You should read more than just to the title!]] A look back at the ski world championship in St. Anton disproves the old sport word: Sport – the most important by-product in the world! I say that for Austria, sport is one of the main things, especially winter sports. Nearly half of the Austrians drive ski, every second pair of skis, which is driven by any hill in this world, comes from Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] On the global 15-billion schilling market of equipment, domestic manufacturers deliver half of all snowboards and two-thirds of all cross-country skis. With 53 million stays, winter tourism in Austria achieves more than 100 billion Schilling sales. This results in thousands of jobs and billions of revenue in the downstream and downstream industries. The domestic cable cars make their knowledge and skills a global export hit. All of this can't be a side-by-side thing anymore. Sports idols are also moral models, with their honors covering the costs of self-overcoming and self-discipline loosely. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Talk to the micro!]] [[Abg. Schwemlein: You must speak to all Members – and not just to your group!]] Living in and with the mountains is a kind of identity and a trademark for all Austrians. Winter sports under clear rules of competition and control is good for health and business. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These are the real main things behind the alleged incidental sport. Our wife, Vice-Chancellor, is simply a proof and the guarantee that sport has become a major issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e18584	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e18605	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Do you have anything to say?]] That's right! I have something to say to you, too. – In the international comparison, Austrians have a lot of sports. But it is even more gratifying that in schools the additional sports offers are increasing, because you know that exercise through sports is very important for the health of our children. [[Abg. Swimmling: Not anymore!]] And when you consider that almost 140,000 children attend non-binding exercises in schools, you can see that this voluntary extra sports offer is very much accepted by the students. [[Abg. Swimmling: But that is cut short by the government!]] The ORF has launched the "lighter living" action in cooperation with the Bundessportsorganisation and an insurance institution as well as the umbrella associations, and now this action is certainly already known to all of us. 170 000 people have already joined this action in Austria and solved a "lighter living" pass. It is a matter of increasing health awareness and of making people shy of sports activities. A group dynamics was triggered to carry out movement together and especially to lose some kilos, and this motivates everyone to participate in this action. In addition, this action also serves a good purpose. [[Abg. Böhacker: What does that mean?]] "lighter life" – have You haven't heard of it yet? We're all involved, it wouldn't harm you either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Sports, however, is also an important economic factor. The production and trade of sports goods brings value added to nearly 80 billion schilling, thus securing 100 000 jobs. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Politics has to get out of sports, we could read last year as a headline in the "Salzburger Nachrichten". [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes, yes!]] In an interview, our vice chancellor, Dr. Riess-Passer, explained her ideas on sports promotion and future sports policy. It was also always a call for the liberals to reduce the three umbrella associations to one, and especially the close-to-party umbrella associations should be dissolved according to their ideas. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Hot!]] But I want to remember that there are clubs and club members here who want to belong to the respective umbrella association for ideological reasons. Mrs. Vice chancellor! If you claim that precisely these ideological aspects are the core of this problem, I am quite different here. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What distinguishes social-democratic football from others?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Is rowing black or red?]] What's wrong? If the SPÖ is committed to the fact that people with less income can also benefit from sports facilities because they can't afford noble or sintering clubs? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Neudeck.]] You know how different they are anyway. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What is the difference between ASKÖ and Union Frauenkirchen?]] I'll tell you later. Especially the workers' movement did not come about by chance. Social democracy has not only been used for the improvement of the working class – let me speak out! – but also for people with low resources to be able to engage in sports. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 100 years of ASKÖ also celebrated!]] [[Calls.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] These sports roof associations are an important part of growing sports organization but also democratic structures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 100 years ASKÖ!]] In the sense of diversity of opinion, nothing can simply be opposed to the existence of three umbrella associations. Healthy competition can only have positive effects. Despite their quite different traditions, the three umbrella associations are also not to be seen as opponents, but as partners in the joint work for sports. The politicians like to use sports that is connected with young and dynamic. I think of marathon runners, bungee-jumping or your top candidate, Dr. Partik-Pablé, who discovered the jogging during the election campaign during the last municipal council elections in Vienna and staged a "run with Helene". [[Abg. Böhacker: Too dangerous!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: No, she's been running for years!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That's your opinion!]] Yeah, that's my opinion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, this action has been of little use to you if you look at the results of the election. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's your opinion!]] And our citizens – and this has been seen, and this is my opinion – can see very well if sport is abused for politics, and then react accordingly. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Within the framework of "lighter living"!]] This is not a political action. – So our fellow citizens react accordingly with rejection. And that is exactly what I think!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e18890	The next speaker is Mrs Stadler. May I ask for a little more attention before, the noise level is gradually increasing in such a way that the speaker is extremely difficult. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The speakers in!]] Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e18922	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! Mrs Pfeffer, I do not find it detrimental, although politicians act as sponsors for sports. I wouldn't criticize this, I can only welcome it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Sports not only nourishes our body and our soul, but also generates enormous sales and enormous value added, from which many industries benefit our economy. [[Call at the SPÖ: The ruble is rolling!]] Yes, that's right! After all, the total value added by the sport in Austria is around 8 billion schilling a year. This value added, in turn, secures about 100 000 jobs and accounts for 3 per cent of our gross domestic product. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Far more!]] Remarkable is also the strong position of our clubs, especially the sports clubs in our country. Among the revenue and expenditure structures – and now you listen carefully to me! –: The total volume is 6.24 billion schilling, of which 15.8 percent is funding, with this pot not only fed by the federal government, but mainly by municipalities and countries. These figures and the many volunteer officials in sports demonstrate the high value of sports, which you always highlight. Mrs. Haidlmayr! In other words, young people's work, especially those at the Breitensport level, is carried out by these associations and financed by this total volume. For this we can only give our appreciation because this is also a great contribution to the sports budget in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But not only the purely economic effects of the sports activities of the Austrians, but also the immaterial benefits are outstanding; for example, the improvement of public health and the educational benefits for our children and young people. There is a total benefit of the sports activities of the Austrians to avoid social costs in the health system. All these figures are not my invention, but the result of a study by the Institute of Industrial Sciences Vienna. The sports and major events in our country and the highest performances of our athletes, as our Patrick Ortlieb once was, give sport and Austria an extremely positive image. They bring many sports enthusiasts and holidaymakers to our country, they motivate sports practitioners and stimulate our economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, in order to benefit from this economic advantage, we also need the attractiveness of our sports facilities. Not for nothing is a focus in the sports budget 2002 on investment promotion for renovation, expansion and re-establishment of sports facilities in Austria. As a Tyrolean, I am pleased that we will jump in a new mountain island arena in 2002. The renovation of the Olympic Ice Hall or the Bob and Toboggan Railway Igls, for example, is also possible only if there is an investment boost also from the federal government. - Yes, it is! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Sports events in these large installations are absolutely necessary and should take place there – they bring thousands of people into our country who make a significant contribution to our economic power. Ladies and gentlemen! The sport affects many areas, the benefits are enormous. Let us therefore continue to give sport the corresponding high priority, and I ask you to agree to this budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19004	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19025	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! I address you, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, not in her role as Minister of State, but as Vice-Chancellor and thus as co-responsor of the general policy of this Federal Government. I think it might be advisable to let this day and what was previously a little revue happen at the end of the day when we discussed the chapters Supreme Institutions and Federal Chancellery. You have joined this coalition government with the motto that you want to rerule. They have promised a repressive of party policy, objects in every respect and new models. Then these numerous individual laws came according to the motto: Reforms have to come quickly! There have been a number of incidents and mistakes – I don't need to repeat them here now – and the phrase "speed kills quality" has already made a very general round. I would also have liked to hear an assessment of whether there would be some materials, where there would actually be some haste, which was often discussed and controversially, where all the arguments are on the table and where decisions are concerned – for example, in areas where Austria has been very, very often told by the European Union, for example as regards passive foreigners' right to vote in business representations, in the various chambers and in the Austrian high school. As all arguments are exchanged, it should be acted here – alone, it does not correspond to your ideological orientation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Last weekend, there was a Vienna election, and I must say that personally your voting line really made me even more outraged than the internationally highly criticised one in the Vienna election campaign before, because you did not send out certain, very aggressive messages yourself, but you appealed to fears, not very noble feelings. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: on the matter!]] I know you don't like to hear that very much, but that's exactly what this government policy, the Chancellor's Office, is about this vice chancellor. You have had posters on which people have been presented as a matter of concern, and I can tell you: For example, I have talked to some foreign entrepreneurs who have really met this bitterly and who have said: Please, how do I get it? I have been living in this country for many years, I have successfully run several farms, I am busy – in wonderful harmony – foreigners and foreigners in my farm, and at once I have to read on posters that I am somehow something different that people worry about me! How do I get it? – This appeal to these shadows, I really found it to be something very last-class – and there was no word from you for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19069	Mrs Petrovic! You have deliberately pointed out that you are addressing Mrs. Vice-Chancellor in the sense of the general debate. I must point out, however, that we have not only done this chapter, but we have already voted on it and are now dealing with the Public Performance and Sport chapter. [[Abg. May. Kogler: There is no general debate!]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: That's absurd!]] That is, we never explain this so closely, so I have not said anything about it during about half of your speaking time, but I ask you to pay attention now that we are now negotiating the "Public Performance and Sport" chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19112	Mr President. You can certainly trust me with the eloquence that I can beat this bow. I allow myself to note without criticizing you now – I do not! – I find it advisable to discuss this in the next presidency. What has so far been said in some speeches has seemed to me to be further away from a budget debate and from a debate, for example, on the public performance and sport chapter, than was the case in my speech. I mentioned, for example, the entrepreneurship in Austria earlier. It is already a question, in which economic climate, in which political spirit, in which attitude all this takes place – and there are some things, and this is the responsibility of the leaders of this government, which, I think, is very much influenced by both the performance of public households and the attitude of citizens, as well as the attitude of entrepreneurs. It's very likely to have to do with each other! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the Freeman: Sport is the word!]] I – and if I only measure what has happened in the last few hours in the context of this budget debate – have often heard the arguments that have come mainly from the representatives of the government groups: The former socialist, social-democratic government – it is said again and again – would have left old burdens, would have made a big mistake. – On the one hand, I must say, remember that this was not a single government so far, and on the other, the silence of the Federal Chancellor and the tops of the ÖVP also draws like a "black" thread through these budget consultations to all these chapters, such as the chapter of public performance. Secondly, it was to be heard that money had been wrongly spent and that had already been the case in the past. But now the same criticism is directed against you, for example, as regards public advertising campaigns; I now spare myself the use of those words that your ex-party has made known to the media in all sizes. And then again – and this affects the mood, the economic climate, certainly also the spirit of the public administration, authorities and departments – a polarization came very much alike. What stood on the Vienna election posters also moved into the debate: It was not about saying that there might be other arguments and a different weighting in drug policy and in other areas, but there was the bottom drawer open. I have not noticed from any climate that one understands that maybe mistakes have been made and that the other side may not be right in all respects. Rather, rough clogs and rough throats have come. As you, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, have referred to the objective law in your remarks, I must ask the question in every form: Is it really that way – and this concerns a party colleague from you in the government – that, when it comes to a rather questionable and not closer-up men's department, there is a certain person from the outset without a call for tender? Is it really the case that entire supervisory councils are being exchanged? Through the country's economic media, the word is that now, at once, the "friends of Prinzhorn" have occupied all these positions and this seems to have become an objective criterion. Mrs. Vice chancellor! You have said that you can't influence this or that because it's private associations and you can't do anything, and it's rolling a wave of exclusions, so I'm holding you in every way: Of course you can do something! As far as I know, there is no legal right to funding in federal law or in the field of the rights of the countries! Of course, the public hand could work towards positive objectives it is seeking in promoting agreements, such as the integration of people who are disadvantaged in any form, the equality of people with different passports, the conscious promotion and encouragement of women, and, in so far, stronger incentives for those who want to do so, create political signals. But apparently this is not wanted. At this level it should be brought, then the debate could be very successful! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last thing, and that's also going through like a blue or a black thread: Again and again, the question of public services or other areas: Where are the concepts of the opposition? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: I wonder that too!]] Yes, yes! Gain It's just you! You've got a whole new team, Mrs. Vice chancellor, I've noticed! I'm replying to this: On the one hand, it is not the primary task of an opposition to make government policy, because it has no majority, and that knows the opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: But you can think!]] On the other hand, there is – and you know that very well, Mrs. Vice chancellor! – of course appropriate concepts. There are concepts of the greens in the field of taxation and budgeting with the great concept of income-neutral eco-tax. There is a basic social security model which is financial and fair, and which is, above all, a model which is in line with the concerns of women and young people. There is a wealth of proposals on democracy reform, as well as on the reform of public services. But it has so far been pointless to introduce this, because we are on the level that the Greens have dominated the accusation of the Kumpanei with drug dealers and similar. It's a style that won't go much further. There is often the fact that it sounds back from the forest, as is called in by the government that has the say in the country. Or to say it differently: Each government has the opposition it deserves. – As long as the results of the elections are the same as they were in Vienna and Burgenland, we should at least be right!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19191	The next speaker was Mr Reindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19213	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Unlike my previous speaker, Madeleine Petrovic, who has dealt with the foreign election law, the Vienna country election, drug dealers et cetera, I will talk about the matter, namely the federal proposal 2002. [[Assembly and bravado with the liberals as well as congratulation with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact that Social Democratic Federal Chancellors and Social Democratic Finance Ministers have made 144 million Schillings daily in the last 30 years! [[Abg. May. Kogler: But now it's about 2002!]] Mr Kogler! Ladies and gentlemen! That's about 6 million schilling new debts per hour, and this results in a left-over debt mountain of around 2,200 billion schilling! Ladies and gentlemen! These are figures that can only be very difficult to imagine! High house! In several savings packages, the Social Democrats have increased wage and income tax, tobacco tax, insurance tax, recipe fees, even three times, and the energy tax on electricity and gas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Mr Gradwelt! The Social Democrats have shortened the care allowance, partially removed the deductibility for special expenditure, made building savings more unattractive, heightened holiday and Christmas tax, and so on. – This is just a demonstration and not a tax-active list, ladies and gentlemen, because for a tax-active listing my speaking time would not be enough. [[Abg. Brix: Does this concern the agenda?]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: You have announced that you will talk about the matter!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite these unsocial burdens, the Social Democrats have not succeeded in reducing the huge debt mountain, quite the contrary. Under a red Chancellor and a red finance minister, this debt mountain would have become much bigger year after year. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is a true blessing for our country, that the electorate on the 3rd. October 1999 the debtors of this Republic have chosen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Making debt is unsocial! Debts make the next generations burdened. In order to avoid re-indebtedness in the future and achieve the so-called zero deficit, the new Federal Government is forced to take reorganisation measures. [[Abg. Shasching: On the topic!]] That's responsible for our country, that's "government new." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] I see you, Mr. Kummerer. Ladies and gentlemen! Public service also contributes to the necessary reorganisation of the public budget. Mr Kummerer! By 2003, 11 000 posts will be saved in the public service, and another 4,000 will be saved by disbursements. The fact that this objective can be achieved is demonstrated by the fact that 3 860 planning posts were already saved in 2000, i.e. that the civil service was already reduced by 3 percent. [[Abg. Gradwell: This is "so good" for the executive!]] Mr Gradwelt! It is also not necessary and no reasonable person in that country can explain that, for example, a rider of the court riding school or a gardener must be a pragmatized official. These measures do not have a one-time effect, as the great chairman of the Social Democrats, Comrade Gusenbauer, has said today, but bring a lasting effect. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! From the debt economy to the party book economy: The party book economy should not be completely unknown to the Social Democrats either. They have also developed a certain professionalism in recent decades. In the future, post staff and public service receptions will be subject to objective, performance-oriented and comprehensible procedures. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! With the in-force step of the objectiveive law, a completely new age will come in the public service in our Republic. The art and party book economy will once and for all be a part of the past. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] Mr Grabner! Listen! At last, performance and skills will be in the foreground. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! The public officials and candidates for a public job, male or female – I say that for Mrs Petrovic – will thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19358	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19377	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I refer immediately to the statements made by my immediate predecessor: Dear friend, what you said there doesn't even believe the head of state in Carinthia! I'm sorry, but That's all I'm saying! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] But I will now try to express myself on the budget chapter of public services in a few sentences. I have been very careful, and I mean, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be interesting to remember that when we talk about public service and public servants, it is about people, about colleagues. I am glad that at least from the side of the economy, from the side of many Austrians, but also from international experts, it is recognised that public administration is good in Austria. I would like to thank the public officials here today for their services for our Republic and its citizens very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now we are sitting here for days, so our common thanks should also belong to the Members of Parliament's Directorate. For us, all of this is always a matter of course. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Vice chancellor! I am not going to spread here in detail about individual points of the administrative reform or the state reform. I have been very careful in the Committee on Budgets and yesterday at Question Time, and I have also listened very carefully to your comments. – I am pleased because I have already read the comments of the ÖVP national leaders on this subject area, in the APA and in the print and electronic media. This will be a very interesting discussion! And it's safe: The reds won't be to blame! This will be an interesting discussion between the Austrian People's Party and the Freedom Party! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you, above all you, Mrs Vice-Chancellor: If we discuss and negotiate numerous reforms over the next few weeks and months, we must not forget that we are not talking about abstract planning sites, but about people! Ladies and gentlemen! You must not pass over people and act like it is about dead matter! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It doesn't matter if there's any continuous announcements here! I only take up the theme of Pragmatization: The Federal Chancellor says which areas he can imagine. You, gracious woman, say which areas you can imagine. Covering is what you both express as the head of government, but not! Put yourself in the position of thousands of colleagues. What kind of impression are these to gain? So I would like to ask that we sit at a table together and conduct the negotiations in the interest of those concerned. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! From this speaker's point of view, what will happen to the executive when you decide that after six months of illness, a third of the reference will be retained. At yesterday's Question Time – you were already asked in advance – Mr Miedl asked exactly this question. I'm glad about that and I say today: Fix it! – But that was not necessary at all! I asked the friends of the ÖAAB: Are you not acting? There you were all at the dive station! Now you come and say, We need to fix that now! That's why I'm saying: Please, let's fix it at least now! Ladies and gentlemen have a right to this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A small example, also one As regards the area of executives, it has also been decided: In one year, the reductions will also come in the case of service accidents. Mr Miedl! Maybe you'll ask again, and maybe we can fix it, because no one listens to us before! I think that if we deal with such profound measures in a parliamentary way, we should never lose sight of the fact that people are also dealing with people, dear friend of the ÖAAB!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19488	The next speaker is Mr Faul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19509	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is indeed a remarkable difference between the speeches of colleagues from our group and colleagues from your group to the officials. I think you've noticed that yourself! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In this context, I will come back to yesterday's sports report. I must say that there have been very remarkable statements, for example, by Mr Grollitsch, who is not in the hall now, as sports spokesperson of the FPÖ. However, for me, it was very remarkable negative statements, especially on club sports, and this in the international year of volunteering and volunteering, which would have given you, Mr Grollitsch, the opportunity to speak a little positively to these 2.5 million volunteer volunteers in sports and thank them for their volunteer work! Mr Grollisch! You have here created a very outdated investigation, which nobody knows except you, and have questioned the qualifications of these voluntary employees on the basis of this study. They do not hesitate to reduce their undisputed importance for broadband and especially for club sports in Austria! That hit me very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They ignore the importance of sports youth education for public health, whose foundation is already laid in childhood. You don't understand at all the value of sports that keeps young people away from alcohol and nicotine! [[Abg. Haigermoser: You want to compete with President Fischer!]] They have also negated the enormous added value – Mr Lexer said it – achieved by this voluntary activity a year. It is more than 8 billion schilling, if only 100 s per hour, apart from the value for young people's health development and the value for tourism, which is clearly demonstrated by the study today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear colleague Grollisch! Your remarks become even more significant in the negative sense, considering that the cost of these services for sports from your budget could never be covered by the vice chancellor, and one does not want to cover them, even though one would wish you to take the unemployed teachers you produce through your policy into these jobs as trainers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear colleague Grollisch! Their explanations also had method. We know that! The well-organised roof associations are disturbing you. There's nothing to be used for this, either. Mrs. Vice chancellor! You want to start with the "Sport-Grollis" of your party on our umbrella associations! With the motto "Politics out of Sport!" You mean: How do I get hold of the roof associations and the trade associations? How did I get to influence here, even if it is only negative? Your coalition partner – dear friends, I have to keep this from happening to you! – Don’t notice that the Union and it are also on the collar! You want to keep an eye on our associations and influence your will and imagination. The latest example from Carinthia has shown us impressively how you take sports to the means to put political pressure on officials and employees of sports. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Mrs. Vice chancellor! We will defend ourselves, hopefully together with your coalition partner! We will fight against your political stranglehold, with the forces of our members, the athletes and officials, but above all with the pressure of the public that is getting bigger on you every day. We want to insist that we can manage ourselves and control ourselves as before. Mr Grollisch! We will not allow outdated and, above all, national thoughts to enter the sport. I am sure that your coalition partner will also be on our side on this issue! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! There would be a lot different to do in your sports ministry. Take care of the planning and construction of the sports sites! Take care to develop the performance centres as you have announced! Take more care of broadband and disabled sports, take care of school sports and business sports! [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Make yourself very strong, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, that the funds from the gambling law are still available to sport after 2002! On this issue, take action against your own Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Unlike many colleagues here in this House, I have nothing against your desire to travel. Drive from me to all sports events in Austria – at this time you can at least not harm the sport in our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19611	To me the request was made that the speaker be put a little bit quieter. But now a lady comes to the fore, and maybe we'll do the wrong thing if we put the speaker to silence. I mean, it should be a little bit quieter not only the speakers, but also the calls! Mrs Schasching is speaking. It is expected that this will be the case. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19635	Mr President. I think we're gonna do this with the speaker. I'm sure I can be a voter. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few more points about the contributions made by my previous speakers. It was a very controversial debate about sports roof associations, and I am pleased to hear from at least the ranks of the ÖVP and from the mouth of their sports spokesperson that he is very much in line with our basic attitude. However, this should not be lip recognition but real confession, and I am already very excited, Mr Lexer, whether you will agree to my motion for a resolution. I am excited whether we can think together and whether the socio-economic value of sports will also find legal expression and will be implemented. In any case, I am already very excited about your voting behaviour. The fact that sports ends could make this clear once. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Total expenditure on the Public Services and Sport chapter fell by around 2.2 million y compared to 2001. In this context, I would like to point out that we could have agreed, especially in the field of sport, to accept your budget proposal. However, since this budget chapter needs to be voted together, I cannot signal approval for the Social Democracy side. The facts and figures speak for themselves. Women's promotion is the same as in the 2001 budget. To this end, it must also be noted that a standstill can and will of course also mean a step back. I therefore very much hope that, in this context, you will be taking appropriate measures in the future, so that more resources will be available again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should also like to remind you that the Women's Promotion Plan should also be approved so that we can finally reach the level of Germany. There has been such a situation since 1989. Another aspect of sports policy, which has already been discussed today, concerns youth promotion and the promotion of school youth in the field of sport. Sport is an important engine in the field of health, social behaviour and team ability, and in this context it is necessary to stress once again the really positive work and performance of the many sports clubs that do the most valuable work in this area. With regard to school sport, I have sent a request to your colleague, Federal Minister Gehrer, who has also known that the health of young people is our most important asset and that sports additional offers should also be made in schools. Non-binding exercises have already been addressed today. The number of events carried out in the past has been positive in statistics, and I now ask, Mrs Bundesminister: Will that be the case in the future? – They are the ones that stands for the deletion of teachers’ posts. They are the ones who have to answer that there will be much less non-binding exercises in schools in the future. In view of this, I wonder whether you should not let sports be a little more deeply involved in this area of responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] On the one hand, one cannot confess that sport in school is important with its additional offers, on the other hand, the schools then withdraw the corresponding teachers! So I come to another point: I must point out that today, at the beginning of the debate, an extreme label gap was made here, especially by the ÖVP and the Khol club. Khol says: We spend a lot or much more money on research and education. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not true! That's simple and just not true! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This label failure was then continued. It's called: Budget consolidation only on expenditure. – Now we are experiencing the exact opposite! It is also said: Only a few Austrians are affected. – We experience the exact opposite! We also experience a colleague who is at the forefront of the Vienna election campaign, but then he does not agree to join the Vienna municipal council. - That's another label flaw! I think your guru from Carinthia, who is leading the government team on the gang band, is currently falling in the back in this respect! He threatens you with abduction of love. And this swindle, which you have carried out here on the back of our citizens, has already been rewarded by the Vienna voters!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19704	The next speaker is Mr Leikam. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19725	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Sports! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Vice-Chancellor, yesterday's Question Time and the subsequent debate on the sports report, we were unable to agree on a number of questions. You accused me of making unjust accusations to you in a press release. Today I have the minutes of yesterday's Question Time. I have had myself put on the speaker list to make it clear here that you have actually said what I have accused you about, according to the press release, at Question Time. I'm allowed to quote. With regard to the two projects in Carinthia in connection with the application for the European Football Championship, you meant that these two Carinthian projects were first of all in no connection with the question of the application for the European Football Championship. [[Interim remark by Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer]] – I said that, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, in my broadcast. It says: "Riess-Passer has also confirmed that there is no link between the Kärntner stadium projects and the application of Austria for the football Em." – Where is a different view? [[Calls.]] In addition, concerning the Klagenfurt Stadium, you have meant that "it is still necessary to specify the project documents of the operators relating to the re-use of this stadium and the concreteisation of the calculations of the planned construction measures". "As soon as these specific documents are available to me, we will examine the request for funding from Carinthia and then make a decision accordingly." – I said in my broadcast, among other things, that "for the reconstruction of the Klagenfurt stadium there are still no concrete plans and therefore no concrete financial commitment of the federal government is possible." – Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! It's almost word identical with what you told me yesterday. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer.]] Mrs. Vice chancellor! I addressed the question to you yesterday because the situation in Carinthia is presented differently, and I wanted to have the information of you who is right now: You or the Carinthian head of state and the divorced national sports officer? So who's right here? They were last year, my memory of May, in Carinthia, and when you left, Mr. Reichhold, the retired sports officer, explained that you came to Carinthia with full pockets and will make 80 million schilling available to the Klagenfurt Stadium. Cost sharing: 40 million Schilling federal government, 40 million Schilling land. – Press release by Mr Reichhold. [[Abg. Zweytick: We know this from the climate at the "Ö-ring"!]] [[Vice chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: That's it!]] That's the way it is, tell me now. [[Deputy Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: Yes!]] Then when I was on the basis of this press release... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Scheuch going forward between the bank lines.]] Go, sit down, you're bluffing your own group! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Shame.]] When I sent you a written parliamentary request a few days later – exactly on this topic, Mrs Vice-Chancellor! – have you answered me to this question: In principle, I would like to point out that sports facilities are promoted by the federal government only if they serve international or Austrian sports. – And Klagenfurt concerning: It has been agreed to present a concept with economic plans and sports policy objectives. The further procedure can therefore be determined only after the agreed approach has been adopted. However, you have already determined to produce 40 million schillings for the Klagenfurt Stadium. What's right now: Your parliamentary response or what your party friends have sent to Carinthia? Ladies and gentlemen! It's still going on then. When the Olympic silver medal winner Stefanie Graf – for all of us a term – returned home from the Olympics, your Mr. Mathias Reichhold said: Tomorrow, the officials will come from the Federal Ministry of Sport and will inspect the Klagenfurt Stadium. It needs to be expanded because there are no more training options there. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We are not there in the Carinthian Landtag, we are in Parliament!]] - No one has come! To this day, there's no schilling. Only the sportswoman is gone because she can no longer train in Klagenfurt. But: What happened after that? – There is another issue by Mr Mathias Reichhold: The Klagenfurt Stadium is being renovated. Now not by 80 million schilling, but by 120 million schilling, cost sharing: 40 million Schilling League, 40 million Schilling Land, 40 million Schilling City Klagenfurt. Four days later, Mr. Landeshuptmann Haider says in the original tone: 500 million schillings will be invested in the Klagenfurt stadium. Mrs. Vice chancellor! I'm asking you now: Who's right? I've looked into your budget draft, and do you know what I've found for the Klagenfurt stadium? [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] A total of 2 million schillings are included in the budget. I really ask – and that's why I also spoke up: Who's keeping the Carinthian sport public at the bar, you or the Kärntner head of state here? I would still like this information from you in this sports debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19891	Mrs. Vice-Chancellor spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19912	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leikam, it is quite easy to understand if you want to: The fact is that the Klagenfurt Stadium is to be renovated is that the Kärntner Landesregierung, represented by the Sportreferent Landeshauptmann Deputy Mathias Reichhold, has approached me and has presented this project to the renovation of the Klagenfurt Stadium. We have promised to finance the renovation of the Klagenfurt stadium of the Federal Republic of Germany in accordance with the third funding – as is usual – as well. The concreteisation of the project documents takes place insofar as – and you know that exactly – a project is presented. The difference between former sports ministers or sports state secretaries, and me, is that we carry out an accurate economic review of these documents, that we do a controlling of these things, and that we have a re-use concept. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We are completely in agreement with the Carinthian state government: The Klagenfurt Stadium will be rebuilt, and we will finance it: Federal, Land and the City of Klagenfurt together. Mr Leikam! Now I'm telling you what the difference to the past is. When I came to this place when I took over this office, I found a wealth of promises for stadium constructions, swimming halls and athletic stadiums both by Mr. ex-State Secretary Wittmann and by Mr. Ex-Finanzminister Edlinger. The difference to the past, the difference between them and me is that I will also keep my promises and promises!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19955	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Advisory Group XIII of the Federal Proposal for 2002. This includes Chapter 70 of the Federal Estimate in 500 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to this advisory group to give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00063_d7e19993	I am still saying that questions 2233/J to 2247/J have been raised at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Friday, 30. The following agenda was adopted at 9 a.m. on 9 March: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (500 and 500 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2002 and Investments (540 of the Supplements). The advisory groups will consult: Military affairs, business and work, as well as external affairs. Question Time is not foreseen. This meeting is closed.
