ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1123	Ladies and gentlemen! I very much welcome you, please take the seats and I will open the 65. The meeting of the National Council, convened for today, 12 a.m. I warmly welcome the Deputy Swedish Prime Minister Lena Hjelm-Wallén as our guest. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] The Official Protocol of 63. Meeting of 29. It is therefore deemed to have been approved. The following Members are reported as preventing the present session: Amon, Ing. Gerhard Bauer, Gaugg, Ortlieb, Dr. Glawischnig, Dr. Povysil and Schieder. [[Buh-Rufe at SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Is that a political disease?]] [[See also page 32]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1177	For this meeting the Federal Chancellor made a statement on a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government as follows: Mr Federal Minister for State Defense Herbert Scheibnerwill be represented by Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1204	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1278	We are now going into the agenda. Mr Oellinger spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1302	Mr President. High house! Today, the Committee, following an agreement of the Presidents, discussed the issue of sickness fees at its meeting. At this meeting, the request was made to contribute to the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office, since the present draft clearly contains constitutional irregularities, which the opposition parties believe are sufficient to discuss them with experts of the Constitutional Service. Mr President. Unfortunately, it was not possible for us to conclude the negotiations at this meeting of the Committee in such a way that we could have come to a report. It seems that the government parties have also understood that we need more time to do so, and that is why the request for a postponement has been made by themselves. I am therefore asking for a debate on whether, in addition to this, the government parties have denied the Committee to make the amendments which they have obviously prepared the subject of the debate the subject of which is now being debated, with this proposal made available to the Committee by the government parties, which can deal with the issue of ambulance fees at all and then decide on them.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1332	Deputies! The legal situation in this area is perfectly clear: A deadline has been set for the Committee and this period has expired. In this case, the Rules of Procedure shall arrange for a debate to be held at the next plenary session to be held at the end of the deadline. That means: There will be a debate! The further course is as follows: The Committeeobmann has requested that, in accordance with § 44 para. 4 GOG to report on the course of the Committee meeting. He has the right to do that, and that will happen. Following this report, I will open the debate. In this debate, everything that can be said about the Committee's deliberations can be said. This is my opinion on this speech on business treatment. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1363	We reached consensus on the duration of the debate at the President-in-Office's sitting. For the negotiating object to be consulted, a daily block period of 3 "Vienna hours" is to be provided, which will result in the following speaking times: SPÖ 59 minutes, Free and ÖVP per 44 minutes, Green 35 minutes. A maximum of 25 minutes has been foreseen for word messages from the Government Bank. On this proposal, the House is to be found, and I therefore ask: Are there any objections to this proposal? – This is obviously not the case, so it is determined by common accord. Request by Dr. Alois Pumberger, Dr. Erwin Rasingerand comrades concerning a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (412/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1404	We now come to the only item on the agenda: Amendment 412/A. With regard to this request, a period of time of 30 years for reporting to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, to which this preliminary draft had been allocated, was allocated for the purpose of reporting. ==References== In view of this deadline, it is therefore, as I had already said, the honour of including the negotiations on this subject in today's sitting. After a written committee report is not available, please refer to § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Committee, Mr Dietachmayr, speaking for oral reasons. I'll give him this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1428	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I refund according to § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure Report on the Committee's deliberations on Amendment 412/A by Dr Pumberger, Dr Rasinger and colleagues on a Federal Act amending the ASVG, the GSVG, the BSVG and the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act. The Rules of Procedure provide for the Committee's chairman to be able to report orally to the plenary. I use this right today in this case. The debate on Amendment 412/A started today at 8 p.m. in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. As this is a very essential matter, of which around 5 million people in Austria are affected, an extensive debate on the Rules of Procedure developed at the beginning of the discussions, in particular by the SPÖ Group and the Greens, the amendments announced in the media were requested by the government groups. – Government parties did not comply with the opposition party’s request to submit their amendments. Mrs Silhavy brought in according to § 40 para. 1 a request to hold a hearing with experts and experts. Four informed representatives of the social partners, two informed representatives of the main association of social security institutions, two informed representatives of the countries, two informed representatives of the municipalities, two informed representatives of the medical board and an informed representative of the ARGE rehabilitation should be invited. This request was adopted unanimously. Mrs Silhavy and Mr Oellinger also requested that two experts from the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service and four experts from the Austrian Senior Council on the hearing of the Committee be invited. – This request was rejected by ÖVP and FPÖ. [[Abg. Großruck: This is not a report, this is a debate contribution!]] Mr Silhavy and Mr Oellinger also requested that the hearing of the Committee be heard in accordance with Article 37(1) of the Rules of Procedure. 9 to be held publicly. – This request was also rejected by the members of the ÖVP and FPÖ. Mrs Silhavy has tabled an amendment to the following content, which was also under negotiation: firstly, to restore the legal status before the introduction of the ambulance fees retroactively, secondly, to ensure that, in the case of officials, farmers and self-employed persons, self-retaining is abolished retroactively, thirdly, the contributions already paid by the insured persons on their own initiative, and fourthly, to replace the administrative costs incurred by the insurance companies and the health insurance institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! At present, the Committee's deliberations have been interrupted for an indefinite period, since, as we know, this National Council meeting has been convened for today, 12 a.m. There are still a number of speeches in the Committee, and the experts have not yet been able to answer all the questions raised by Members. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the following comments in the hearing: First: The representative of the disabled indicated that a total of only 15 percent of doctors in Austria are freely accessible to disabled persons, and 85 percent of doctors are not accessible. Secondly, The social security representatives urgently requested that this unadministrable scheme be rethinked and that a solution be developed in the sense of better handling. Thirdly, The representatives of the government groups refused to obtain an opinion on the constitutionality of the application to the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellery. Fourth: The representatives of the workers' organisations noted that this measure was a criminal tax. – As far as the report from the Committee is concerned. Mr President, I would ask you, if there are any speeches, to go into the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1463	I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are words available. We are going into the debate. We have already decided on the speaking times. The first counterword is from Mr Gusenbauer. Legal speaking time: a maximum of 20 minutes, voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1493	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The procedure just reported by the president of the Committee is a model example of the fact that this government does not take seriously the concerns of the Austrians. It is a model example for chaos, for hush-fush and for the continued arrogance of this government policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You have to imagine what's actually happening here: The Austrians are not even aware of the Constitutional Court. The honourable Member does not even have the amendment that the government groups have announced. The Committee's deliberations have not even been completed. Not even all the experts have heard. Not all Members of the Committee have yet been able to comment on this. But despite all these shortcomings, the government wants to pass this law here in the National Council today! This is a flagrant break with the use of parliamentarianism, not a careful handling of legislation and, in fact, a contempt for our legislative process, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But not enough that you do not treat the High House properly, you also deal with the affected groups in a way that is unacceptable. There have been relevant opinions from the Social Insurance Association, which has not been heard until today. They have also not heard the representatives of the two million Austrian seniors who could say essentials. They have essentially not even heard the constitutional experts, although publicly it has already become public, that the proposal we are discussing now could again be unconstitutional – the amendment is still not available. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is a policy without the citizens, that is the continuation of the driving course – the reckless driving! We Socialists reject this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There is also broad amazement in the legal matter itself. Ambulance fees, which have obviously been abolished for formal reasons, have led to protests in many parts of the Austrian population. Some representatives of the government coalition have announced that the need for a change that has now been made will be used to make the ambulance charges more socially balanced. However, that request, which is before us today, is not a social improvement, but a social intensification, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have to ask yourself the question of what is understood by that "passing effect" that the Federal Minister and the government representatives are talking about. What steering effect, my very much revered Ladies and gentlemen, should people who visit the ambulances on the weekend or at night pay an ambulance fee? What alternatives do these people have if they do not find any established doctors at this time? You have no alternative but to go to an ambulance! But for these cases too, you now have an ambulance fee! – This is not a steering effect, but it is no longer less than a health penalty tax that you are planning, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They do not leave people any alternative and try – as you think – to get cheap money for the budget. They are creating these ambulance charges in a way that contradicts democratic uses and with which our country's social conscience is renegotiated. However, they do not achieve any improvement in the situation of the sick and the financing of the health system in our country. This law is a model example of Husch and Push, a model example of that government policy you stand for, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For several days now, the administrative reform has been discussed, and there will be interesting and important discussions with the federal states on how to make the Austrian administration more efficient. If there are now these discussions – and this is an important issue! – then you have to check every legal measure to see if it reduces or increases bureaucracy. And by what you're planning to do with the ambulance fee, huge additional bureaucracy will have to be created to administer it. The way in which this is to be implemented will lead to a bureaucracy monster in Austria – in times of administrative simplification this is the completely wrong way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Obviously, Mr Gaugg, in the process that the government groups are planning for today, has become bad because he was still on 30. March said: "I am against it that it happens in this hurry and in this hasty form, because errors have already happened in the hurry. I'm afraid it may be possible to get back to pans, and that's what you can save yourself." Mr Gaugg is right. [[Call the SPÖ: Where is he?]] The process you are planning will not only lead to further breakdowns and further mistakes, but will lead to a complete misdevelopment in the administrative structure of our health system. It is a pity that Mr Gaugg is not taking the opportunity to vote against your procedure today, because that would be the only right way! [[Abg. Where is he?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Clearly, what is expressed here is a panic action: After the Turkish and the Vienna electors of the government had already given a clear fingermark after public statements spoke of the need to deal with reforms more carefully in the future – only yesterday could we hear that the Husch-Fusch time of the government is to be over – one must say: Obviously, Mr Westenthaler, your old party man's announcement has not even held 24 hours, because today you are already doing the next coup and continue the bad line of this government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Dietachmayr pointed out that 85 percent of all medical practices do not allow unhindered access for disabled people. This means that the rules you provide for in the ambulance fee should not only introduce a special form of sickness tax, but in particular that all disabled people in that country will be seriously affected by this fee. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a completely heartless policy which this federal government is again providing for this law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are interested in developing our Austrian health system at a high level for all if you are interested in reducing bureaucracy and not multiplying if you are interested in people living in cities or rural areas having good access to health care at any time, then you have only one way to pay tribute to them. Ladies and gentlemen: Follow the Socialist Group's request for retroactive complete abolition of these ambulance charges! That's the only way you can get out of this dilemma!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1614	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. The watch is gladly set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1636	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr Gusenbauer, once again today you have shown that in health policy you can only be called a "spirit driver". In the last week, when it came to your request, you made allegations that are simple and simply not sustainable! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You said: Each ambulance is cheaper than the established doctor. – I will read you a quote from a party colleague and ask who it is: A wealth medicine with top performances for everyone has their price and is not feasible at a zero rate. - Do you know who said that? – Your City Councillor Rieder! Do you know what Mr Rieder, together with Mr Edlinger, who is obviously ill because he does not want to hear or can hear that, said in 1995? . The proposal to introduce self-holds in hospital hospitals to meet the increasing shift of benefits to the expensive hospital that could provide more cost-effective doctors is directed against. Rieder made massive efforts five years ago to ensure that an ambulance self-retention comes, and you say goodbye to your story. Rieder is still in Vienna today, and Edlinger is in Parliament. And you refuse any reasonable measure in health care. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They're about a vortex, about a vertebra on the back of the patients! I have not heard from you a single proposal on how you want to improve the health care system, which, of course, has problems – the health care system has problems worldwide. They want to insure patients. We want to build up health care responsibly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Is it not a problem-rejection if you have watched those who led you to health care in wide areas until a year ago when twice as many patients have gone to the ambulances in the last ten years? – You didn’t notice this at all, although the costs there are three to four times as high – three to four times as high! I have already said that Rieder and Edlinger have already committed themselves to self-retaining in 1995, but your trade unionist Oberhauser also says: No reasonable person will oppose the redirecting of the patient streams into the extramural area. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Especially at night! Especially at night! Especially at night, right?]] – Why, Mr Gusenbauer, are you trying to make small money on the back of the patients? I will tell you how "social" the municipality of Vienna is, so that we can clean up with a rumor: If you are going to an ambulance, i.e. to the Wilhelminenspital, you will pay if you arrive by car per hour 40 S. If you are there for a whole morning, pay more than we would have to deposit on our own. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] To the self-maintainment: You have obviously forgotten that there is already a lot of self-reservation in Austria. Under your government were introduced: Self-retaining, prescription fees, cursive retention, self-retaining for medical care and the health certificate fee. I'll tell you one thing: Self retention is necessary; they are used to finance the system. Without self-retaining you can maintain the system in the height, to the extent not at all. You have not noticed at all that the officials, the tradesmen, the farmers have been paying self-holds in hospitals for years. I haven't heard a word from you that this is unfair. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But much less!]] The system accounts for around 140 billion schilling of funding for the health insurance companies. The existing reserves you have introduced, to which we also confess, are currently 11 billion schilling. This figure increases to 12 billion schilling through the self-employment reserve. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's not do anything! The solidarity of young people with older people, the solidarity of the sick, must be maintained! Self-containment, which does not cover even 10 percent of the costs incurred, can hardly be described as "unsocial". [[Abg. Silhavy: This is unolidaric! Unsolidaric!]] It is unsocial if you have no money and the health care system, such as your Salzburg local health insurance fund, refuses to pay the psychotherapy. – There’s a 100 percent self retention! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is unsocial if the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse simply does not release 300 specialist doctors and the patients have to buy it privately. – This is a 100 percent self-esteem! It is unsocial if the Niederösterreichische Gebietskrankenkasse, which is not far from your home, prefers to lead patients to Vienna and lets them dialysis at midnight instead of expanding the offer. We do not want to put the billions in, but the offer should be better – yes, it should be better! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have confidence in the system you obviously do not have. They are not interested in further development, but only in a vertebra. Chancellor's climate has shown what confidence he has in the system: When he was sick, he immediately went to the private hospital. - Not with us! We want every citizen to have the best possible care! We have taken the criticism of the national councils very seriously – we have responded – that very many socially well-intentioned exceptions are difficult to manage. Now all the state councils are for it, the doctors are for it – only you are against it. But you will have to explain this to the citizen. We need this important control element. They say the exceptions are so unsocial. Is it unsocial if we take out those who are exempt from the prescription fee? Is it unsocial if we take out those in need at the cash desk on request? Is it unsocial to exclude dialysis patients, patients who need chemotherapy or radiation? Is it unsocial that if someone uses an ambulance 50 times, we say after the sixth time: End with 1 000 s!Unknown term type: "%s".? Ladies and gentlemen! We need the money to increase health care, but we also need a steering effect. The Austrians are world champions in the Im-Spital-Liegen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Of course, we will also have to expand the white spots in the supply outside, which you could have grown in 50 years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Prolonged violent calls to the SPÖ.]] – You can scream as much as you want. We need an ambulance fee, which is solidary, which means little bureaucracy, but also includes a steering effect, as your city councillor Rieder has already demanded.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1766	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. The clock is set to 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1787	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We haven't heard yesterday for the first time that politics makes sense only if it is made with heart. It was then used shyly: A heart also needs understanding! But I ask you: If heart and mind only need to be sought more in the pocket of your pants, has politics become better? We actually agreed – yesterday it was even said to you by your highest speakers and command publishers from Carinthia – it was chaotic, Riess-Passer has confirmed, it was not optimal. She said it a little more diplomatic. But de facto is to be noted: Let me give you an example from Innsbruck. In Innsbruck there were in the first weeks, from 1st to 20th. March, 75,000 ambulance visits. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Too many!]] 20 of them would have been subject to sickness tax or, if you wanted it more polite, would have been due. That's say and write 0.027 percent. You know, Tyrol is not ruled to the left of the middle. So it's your people who came to this data and you probably got excited to say: No matter what the heart says, the brain says we get too little money. In the event that, as we have heard in the Committee today, the great world conspiracy is behind the fact that revenue is behind your forecasts, I say something to you: There is a protocol – I thank God – a meeting of the main association with social security representatives from countries and communities and – you hear! – three officials of the Ministry – your ministry – who agreed at the time on how to calculate something like this, how to define exceptions. This paper "only" has almost 60 pages and then serves as an instruction for action. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: 60!]] - Almost 60 pages. In this one has agreed on relatively reasonable things that you have now mercilessly and shamelessly rehearsed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One has agreed on a patient-friendly legal interpretation, in particular with regard to the grounds of liberation, on a simple, easy to manage data set, the use of existing data flow routes et cetera and some bureaucratic things. But "patient-friendly" is in it. What you are doing now with your new proposal, which we – which is also important for the visitors to the gallery – received 15 minutes ago and which we were never allowed to discuss – is very anti-dialogistic and very anti-democratic; I say it is also very unintelligent; I dare not speak of fairness at all – is the following: In this proposal and in this amendment, you have a slight increase in the number of persons concerned – I say now, without having to reckon it – by factor 5. What is an improvement is in need of explanation. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now, of course, we can ask: What health policy contribution do ambulance fees have, or is health policy only made or reduced from budgetary considerations? Or is she supposed to quit at all? Health policy is already a bit exciting – I tell you by the example of two very large hospitals –: In Innsbruck as in Vienna, over 90 percent of all ambulances are special ambulances, i.e. ambulances for rare diseases. Rare diseases are usually also severe diseases that affect the affected patients and strain them to the very extreme psychological and physical. These include ambulances for multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's, heart-stepmakers, psychosomatics for children and much more, for which there is no adequate, easily accessible supply structure in periphery. I have visited hospitals in Carinthia and Salzburg. There, colleagues and colleagues – they are certainly not mostly green or red voters – have told me that they will also manage it in the future so that they decide for patients because in the periphery – there is particularly interesting Carinthia – some structures do not exist. It has been missed – not only in Carinthia, but also there – to make a service offer planning. There's no orthopaedics, no psychiatrist. There are travel routes for patients of 50, 60 kilometres to the next specialist. Do you want to punish those people who use ambulances and existing facilities? – I find this more than strange. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I also think it is a very immanent quality assurance problem for health professionals to say after consulting a patient: I don't know anymore, I don't want to play the judge, I don't start playing roulette, lucky wheel or anything, I can't read or telephone around for hours, but I want to know the patient adequately in the right place provided by the right care. – In these cases too, the fee must be paid. That's really absurd! Furthermore, the established area should be strengthened – I can already confess – but you who preach the market economy will not know to me that if the settled area is to take over some of the services it has not taken over so far and which have so far been offered by hospitals and their ambulances, it should go cost-neutral! More services will be transferred from the outpatient area to the established area, and at the same time you want to save 1.5 billion schilling from these doctors. I've already told colleagues Pumberger that I don't need his dredging machine to make sure it never works out. So where is the saving effect to be? There may be some established doctors and some parts of the doctor's chamber not like to hear, but still I can't hide it: When I ask people, they tell me – or people tell me about themselves, so unsolicited – that if they call a gynecologist, a dentist, at a orthopaedic, in six weeks there is the first appointment. I've heard about deadlines up to three months. In other words, you have to "integrate" more doctors in the established area. You won't say that's gonna be free! – I know many doctors, but the saints among them, just as in other professional groups, keep themselves in very narrow limits; I only tell you that. A social-political and ethical argument for me, too, is that there is already self retention. – You are quite right, but there are a lot of things in the world, and I do not necessarily want to have it in Austria. I'm not talking about three times a lifetime or a death penalty – I'm not that tasteless to compare it with the health system – but do you want to adapt everything there is somewhere to us, to the bottom? – Let’s adjust the quality to the top, but you don’t think so! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If I hear today that the hospital system is marod, I have to say: These are intellectual purple trees between the praises of our system – it's so good, it's real, and we're all so proud – but also the criticism on every occasion you need it and it serves to say it's marod. Why is it marod? – Because it’s Vienna because you don’t want a few Vienna councillors because you don’t love the mayor. I do not believe that there should be a green or a red hospital policy – perhaps I say something with which my friends have no pleasure. I think there should be common sense over party policy. If I tell you that Tirol, Salzburg and Klagenfurt have the same problems as Vienna, you would have to call the whole system a marod. If I see how long you need to discuss a healthy system in a reasonable manner, then in the maritime system you depend on adding a few more legislative periods. – I would not see that as the vision that brings the health system forward, so to speak, for miles. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But what irritates me: I have always believed and also wished – and I do not return from this idealism – that in parliaments, not only in Austria, it must be possible to argue and convince with clear facts and facts. But that's not the case. And if my dear colleague, Rasinger, thinks it's just a policy of uncertainty, I have to tell him: To tell people the truth of giving them clear facts and facts has little to do with uncertainty. It may be uncomfortable, but it should not be insecure. If I'm insecure, it's the changing opinions of my health spokesperson colleagues from the ÖVP, of which I always hear good suggestions, but always outside of this house, because here in the house you suddenly get something completely different to hear. I'm not sure. You won't care, but it's not elegant. Let's say it again. Green policy is also committed to the responsible handling of budgets, but if you want to save, I think this should not be at the expense of those groups that have already been tested and suffer from their illness. I also believe that saving is possible from a very different point of view, namely rationalization, not rationalization. Something else is always annoying me. Again yesterday, Vice Chancellor Riess-Passer said: We save ourselves, we save on the state. – Yes, who is the state? Is Mrs. Riess-Passer the State? Is a Minister of State? Is the government of the state? The state we are all, and if you save on the state, save on us, save on the citizens! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I'm incomprehensible to believe that you're not being put on the syllables. And always this egg dance for charge increases! I don't ask her, I know what's smart and what you can't do. If the self retention is increased when people pay in the ambulances "blood" and 1000 s, to say that these 1000 s are nothing, that is nothing, but on the other hand, if the fees per month were to rise by 40 s, to say, then the state and the social order or the economy or industry are breaking together – you must also tell me if that is the right thing! Again: I do not ask that, but I believe that a policy that sets accents has to put the accents where the most need for action is where the people of their needs most. That's what I'm doing. [[In the meeting room you can hear cell phone noises.]] As far as I'm concerned, you're not willing to discuss the fact that you're not going into arguments at all, but rather you're yelling at them or trying to get them into the ridiculous, and that you're just going through something now. You needed half a year back then to do something bad. If you believe you can speed up the time and make a little more tricky in two days, I would consider the odds – and I don't need to be Bruckmann or otherwise a statisticalist – as very small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1892	I can ask you to think of that provision that we don't use phones in the meeting room, Mr Grossruck. The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. Speech time: 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e1917	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You laugh, but if I give you a mirror, you'll lose your laugh. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Today we have a measure that has its cause in 30 years of SPÖ health policy. [[Call the SPÖ:Look in the mirror!]] However, this measure is regulated in such a way that it brings much more than costs citizens. This is the treatment contribution of Ambulance, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's a joke! Budgetary law! Take the recorder!]] Mr. Klubobmann – or isn't he? – or Managing Clubobmann Gusenbauer here bets against this treatment contribution Ambulance and thinks what unsocial introduction this is. Gusenbauer, who here, in turn, says that 30 years of debt-making have resulted in our population being stolen from the secure financing of the health care system, is now yelling: Hold the thief! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Scandalös was the behaviour of the opposition parties in the preliminary consultation of the Committee. Never before has it been that we had to keep invited experts waiting for more than an hour. You have called for a break in the session because, contrary to the decision of the National Council Bureau, you also wanted to contribute to constitutional experts. They wanted – Mr Oellinger, you also referred to the Rules of Procedure – to quote constitutional experts within a few minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is "unheard"!]] Mr Klubobmann Kostelka voted against such a quotation in the presidential term. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Not at all!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] He didn't want her. It has never been the case at all, but in the Committee you have caused a delay without regard to the other experts. This was certainly not useful for the discussion we had there. [[Abg. Oillinger: Now say something in content!]] The content is, Mr. Oellinger, that four social insurance companies of more than 2 million Austrians already require a treatment contribution in the Austrian hospital hospitals – of 2 million Austrians! – and content is also that well-known SPÖ politicians such as former health city councillor Rieder – a health politician who has made a name for himself throughout Austria and also beyond the borders of Austria – already in 1995 said Rieder is a recognized man, one can stand ideologically wherever one wants; he had the health care to answer in Vienna –: In a possible self-employment he sees not only an instrument of revenue, but also a control instrument. Those who, out of convenience and without a transfer by a doctor or without an acute medical indication, use the hospital clinic should pay 200 S to 300 S per visit. For higher medical benefits, self retention would be greater, but socially staged. 200 S to 300 S per visit! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who said that?]] – The SPÖ Health City Councillor Rieder said that, but many years ago. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh, that's it? The rider said that?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is he not of you, the knight?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He is now excluded, the Rieder!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You seem to have real problems!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] And now the whole SPÖ is rising because this reasonable proposal is being taken up by the government, on the barricades. It is not a collection measure, it is a pure control measure, a reform measure, because there is a real structural change here. Patients are treated and diverted with equal quality of care, with equally good treatment, with significantly more cost-effective treatment in the settled area. This is a useful measure which has already pre-examinated us many countries of northern Europe, such as Belgium and many others. There are not so many people going to hospital hospitals, because the money for health care can be distributed more economically. The established doctors are the so-called gate-keepers. You still decide when the patient can go where. In addition: 150 S with transfer, my very much revered Ladies and gentlemen, 250 s without a transfer, with a covert season of 1000 s maximum per year, as well as an exception for all the socially needy, this is not a non-social measure, but it is a reasonable measure. All Austrians will see for a short or long time that this horror scenario, which you paint on the wall, Mr. Ollinger or Mr. Gusenbauer, will not occur at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: I didn't paint anything!]] Calculation is one, but some can't. [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, but you should be able to do that too!]] One who can't guarantee it is Klubobmann Kostelka, who actually claims that treatment in a hospital clinic is cheaper than a localized practical doctor. I can only laugh about it! I'm a practical doctor, I could keep the numbers under your nose. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Whoever can't expect, these are the comrades in Vienna who sit in the marble palace of the Vienna regional health fund. There the biggest deficit is caused: 1.3 billion schilling deficit, while the Upper Austrian local health fund with a reasonable savings programme generates a plus of 113 million schilling. Here you look! Why is that so, they all pay the same contributions? The Wiener strangles with the bureaucracy and with the administration the entire duties of the patients – so it is! Otherwise it could not be that in Upper Austria profits are generated with the same contributions because all help save. [[Abg. Oellinger: The domestic doctors with the house apotheque!]] The doctors, the patients take on what is necessary, and it will perform the performance that is needed. No one just needs to take on the slightest restriction in the form that he does not get a performance he needs. In Upper Austria, without a deficit, and the main association would be called upon to carry out the only task he has at all – if he has one at all – of finally turning the success model of the Oberösterreich District Hospital into the Marode Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, and to call for the same savings measures from all the other regional healthcare telephones that the Upper Austrians successfully implement. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. stupid.]] But the only thing he does: Sallymutter expressly warns that the ambulance fee will be repaired within this week – so that a law-free space arises, a legal uncertainty for the citizens that no one knows when to pay how much. That's what Sallmutter wants! He wants chaos, and he is against the fact that the government parties are successful. But for that we are not to have, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Socialists have put it before us. The only proposal they always have is increase in contributions. [[Calls of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The Socialists increase the recipe fee by 20 percent – plus increases in contributions. The Socialists introduce the health certificate fee – plus increases in contributions. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Who did that? They were it, no one else!]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] At the time, they increased the contributions to 3.75 percent of the pensioners and the others paid the health certificate fee. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] The health insurance fund pays back only 80 percent of the electorate – and that is not certain! – plus increases in contributions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With regard to travel and travel costs, a mandatory service has been reduced to a canner performance – plus increases in contributions. They have reduced the pocket money of the disabled from 1000 S to 500 S – and the plus contribution increases. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Incredible!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Out, end the contribution increases! Structural reform is now being made! For this we are to have, that is new to the government, and not to these eternal increases in contribution! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I know what it's all about. They want to: The red and black influence that is still present everywhere – I have to say so, because we are working together on an improvement – the red and black officials in the health insurance companies are now only the only wire for SPÖ that can influence the approval of early pensions, the authorisation of spa stays, the authorisation of pension applications and short food. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at SPÖ]] That's what their officials are in the health insurances! [[Abg. Grabner: Haider told you anyway!]] That's supposed to end at last! It should be decided for purely medical reasons whether someone gets a spa stay or not, and not that your supervisor, a union boss, decides. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This government already has many positive health benefits to show [[Abg. Grade: Count one!]] I remember here the indebted patient insurance, the house pharmacies union, where you cried against it, and yet you voted in the end, because you could no longer be different at all, so good was the regulation, and much more. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have already saved a billion by cut-offs in medicines, and the patient has not yet had to pay for any schilling, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to this medical contribution, it is now up to us to find a regulation that really socially needy, those who can't be able to get them into the ambulance, and many more, melancholy, socially vulnerable, are excluded. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Therefore: Read the original amendment 412/A, which is available for decision today, precisely by, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We have the children excluded. [[Abg. Oils: Not all!]] [[Call:The apprentices]] And when I heard in the morning in the ORF, in the red radio, [[Vivid cheerfulness at the SPÖ]] Today the National Council decides a tremendous increase in ambulance charges, so it can only have been an information from your corner. [[Abg. Grabner: (a big yellow and a big red card holding high) For such a thing you get a yellow and a red card!]] It is not an intensification, but it is a very large group, that of the children, except for the payment of the ambulance fee. That's what we're proud of! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And this is not least a merit of the Minister of Social Affairs, who has been very committed to it. We have finally correctly defined the emergency regulation. Now there is no longer any possibility that a socialist doctor would recommend to all doctors that everything be considered an emergency. [[Abg. Oils: That's so deep!]] – Yes, she did, that is deep; I give you the right, Mr Oillinger. All doctors are supposed to consider every ambulance patient to be an emergency, she said, so that he will be freed from the ambulance fee. [[Abg. Grabner: Read what your social spokesperson says!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now the emergency is clearly defined. [[Abg. Oillinger: You're an emergency!]] In order to receive an ambulance visit, which will immediately result in a permanent stay, there is no need to pay an ambulance fee. That is a good thing, so all legal uncertainty is eliminated, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That's good! And what's never said about you: The entire group of social weaknesses, which are exempt from the prescription fee due to their financial situation, is automatically also exempt from the payment of the treatment fee Ambulance. This is important and right, and that must be said. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] Why don't you tell people? [[Call to the liberals: They don't understand!]] I have to use my speaking time because you refuse. We have provided for pregnant women in the mother-child passport; they don't pay for anything. Dialysis patients and cancer patients are excluded for oncological radiation therapy and chemotherapy. For all patients in need of social protection, the health insurance scheme has the opportunity to free them on request, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the SPÖ: Is there anything left?]] That is why this law is favourable in social terms. And that's where you're lamenting: 6.5 percent for the administrative burden is far too low! Get out with the language! The main association always says that 3 percent are enough. 6.5 percent are now too few. Now we know at least that the administrative burden is much higher. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Because, on the basis of today's meetings and the meetings of the last days, we have reached an agreement to improve some fines, I am submitting an amendment that I have tabled in accordance with § 53 para. 4 in its core points. I have asked the President to have him distributed; that has already happened. According to this amendment tabled by Mr Pumberger and Mr Rasinger, the National Council wants to decide that children are not entitled to medical emergencies, where there is a risk of life or other reasons for immediate hospitalization, and also persons who benefit from maternity benefits as a result of pregnancy under the mother-child passport or from maternity insurance. [[Calls.]] Treatments for dialysis, radiation and chemotherapy. – We will demand separate votes to see what you have left for our suffering-tested cancer patients, because we have excluded them. There is also an exception for patients who are in a hospital hospital and who are transferred from this ambulance to another ambulance for finding - they pay nothing either. These are all well-founded, good exceptions. Everyone will be able to take up an ambulance in the future. The health system is offset by a structural change – money that can be used much more rationally in the established area with the same quality. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties: Please agree, as in the House Apotheques rule, also here before you get a Blamage.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2433	The request, which Mr Pumberger has referred to, is properly submitted and will be distributed to all the Members of the House so that you can know the content in detail. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2516	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Prammer to speak. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2540	Mr President. Both gentlemen, Mr Pumberger and Mr Rasinger, have misrepresented Sepp Rieder and Rudolf Edlinger several times. They said they were for ambulance charges. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: I didn't quote Edlinger!]] I put it right and remind everyone that in 1995 3 billion shillings were missing in hospital financing in the framework of financial compensatory negotiations; because these 3 billion shillings were missing, there were 30. Mr Rieder's OTS issue of May 1995: I express my support for a reasonable course correction in health care, but I strongly oppose the constant sickening of public health care for budget recovery. I strongly oppose the proposal by the ÖVP health spokesman Rasinger, with a clear no to a general hospital retention. Hospital frequency increases at a higher age. Self retention is therefore primarily a source of people with lower incomes. - Quote. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A real confirmation!]] It was a matter of general restraint at the time, and this is not the subject of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2595	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2617	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Pumberger, particularly intelligent, I cannot find the argument that, on the one hand, talks about a steering effect and, on the other hand, stress that it is without prejudice to most of the people to justify that this is anyway a social regulation. This "intelligence" can probably only follow you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It may already be that it is true that being determines consciousness. If I follow the arguments of colleagues Rasinger and Pumberger, I think that it is in the interests of a doctor that the patients are turned into medical practice, and therefore I can understand your argumentation out of personal interest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What the first two speakers of the coalition groups offered here clearly shows that the hearing, which took place this morning, was not free, but obviously for nothing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today's meeting of the Committee has obviously had only one purpose, namely a demonstration of power vis-à-vis tireless Members. I'm not surprised that my colleague Gaugg is sick today. This was a demonstration of power over the opposition and a demonstration that power of the government coalition is more important than reason. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have held a debate on the Rules of Procedure and have put forward a request to involve the Constitutional Service because the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" has stated that the Constitutional Service has concerns as to whether the proposal we are discussing is in conformity with the Constitution. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have not allowed experts from the Constitutional Service to comment on it in the Committee. Why didn't you allow that? Do you see for yourself that this request we are debating here is not constitutional? – This is the only conclusion you can draw from it. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Oellinger and Mr Van der Bellen.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The procedure pursued by this coalition in the field of ambulance charges is more than grossly negligent – grossly negligent in terms of the impact of democracy policy, grossly negligent as regards legislation in general, but in particular grossly negligent as regards the concerns and arguments of the people concerned. It has remained undisputed that you do not achieve a steering effect. I think of the example that Mr Oellinger cited today, namely the Rheumapaist from Burgenland, who has to go to the Rheuma Ambulance after Vienna. What does the expert, the expert, say, without you belonging to it? – It does not make sense to create such facilities everywhere. That doesn't make any economic sense. - Quote. For that this does not have an economic meaning, but may pay this rheuma patient in the future. You think that's social? – This is unsocial and humane! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] Or the example of fish stocks. Federal Minister! I've had such an experience myself, but that's been four years. I swallowed a fishbone, it was in the evening, it was stuck, I already bled something, so I went to the hospital ward. The fishbone is stuck in the tongue. I even had to go into two ambulances, because the first ambulance had no long tong – or as you call this instrument –; in the other ambulance I was finally liberated from these fish stocks, gave me drops and sent me home. I don't think the doctors acted negligently there, how You said in the committee today. In the future, one will have to pay in such a case because one has not been recorded in a stationary way. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is an emergency!]] – But the emergency is only possible if you are hospitalized, ladies and gentlemen. You don't even know what you want to decide here! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] That's a despicable way of dealing... – And you laugh at it, colleague Rasinger? [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: The fish bones are still inside!]] What kind of doctor are you? – I wonder! That's a despicable thing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They want to do a reduction of the social state at the pace of the campaign and introduce a multi-class medicine. This is obvious and obvious by your behavior. Freedom of choice applies to those who can afford it according to your policy – and we are against it! We want all people to have the same access to medicine and medical services. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Rieder! Edlinger!]] Mr Rasinger! I will discuss with you afterwards, and other Members of my group would like to comment on your non-social policy measures. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: The climate went to the private hospital at all!]] But something else is interesting. The doctors are now, as it were, exempt from the arbitration function. A new scapegoat has been found – this has been very clearly expressed by Mr Pumberger –: Self-administration and social insurance are a thorn in your mind because they are against the multi-class medicine. Therefore, new scapegoat: Social security. That's your policy! Ladies and gentlemen! Because we are opposed to this policy, I am making a request from Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Heidrun Silhavy, colleagues and comrades, who essentially have the substance that the legal status will be restored retroactively before the introduction of the ambulance fees, which will also ensure that officials, farmers and self-employed self-retainers will be rescinded for the ambulance visit, that the contributions already paid by the insured persons will be reimbursed by their own office, thereby replacing administrative costs for the insurance companies and the health insurance institutions. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Without an alternative!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Mrs. Silhavy! Maybe we should get rid of all the restraints?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, show a social conscience! Show that even with you apples of brain and heart do not fall completely on fruitless soil, and vote Let us ask you to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2793	The request by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades, which has just been presented in his key points, has been submitted in writing and sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2943	As the next speaker, Mr Mag, the Federal Minister, spoke. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e2967	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In her speech, Mr Silhavy said that the representatives of the government groups should show social conscience. [[Unrest at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The current scheme for the introduction of ambulance charges should also be considered from the point of view of social conscience and the pecuniary aspect. [[Call the SPÖ: Get away with the ambulance fees!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that if you are looking at what the current Federal Government, together with the representatives of the government groups, is here in the House, purely from the financial point of view and, on the other hand, what you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, are planning with your representations in the main association, this Federal Government has maintained the social dimension. [[Buh-Rufe at SPÖ]] [[==References====External links==]] The rules you are planning would be for all Austrians...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3015	Federal Minister! May I interrupt you? Mein Ladies and gentlemen. If you do not take note of an orderly debate and a proper speech from the Minister, I will interrupt the sitting. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] I'm looking for You are therefore asking the Minister to speak in the course of the sitting. Minister! You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3048	Thank you, Mr President. The ladies and gentlemen who appear here as in school, I think, judge themselves. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction SPÖ) You should write: "Don't feed!" That would be better! As in the zoo!]] I can tell the Austrians, who are concerned, what it actually looks like. The representatives of social democracy and the socialist representatives of the main association of the Austrian social security funds have demanded the following: an increase in the amount of CV contributions by 0.3 per cent for 2000 and 0.5 per cent for 2001 for all. Ladies and gentlemen! How would that affect? – With an income of up to 12 880 S, up to the compensatory allowance rate, the Austrians are exempt from the ambulance fees. I therefore take 13 000 S, the next round of thousands, as an example. What you demand from Social Democracy would mean: at an income of 13 000 S, an increase of 0.3 per cent and a deterioration of the Austrians from 2 480 s to five years, and with an increase of 0.5 per cent, an increase of the Austrians, expected to be five years, from 4 350 p. [[Pfui-Rufe at SPÖ]] [[Deputies Dr. Rasinger and Schwarzenberger: Unbelievable!]] These are the facts! As a basis for calculating this to make it clear to the citizens, the average use of the ambulances by the Austrians in the five-year rhythm. Their rules, ladies and gentlemen, on the part of Social Democracy, would mean that you would also charge eight ambulance fees to those people who do not have an ambulance fee, those who earn less than 12 000 s, for example those who earn 10 000 S, and those who have an increase of 0.5 percent would even charge 24 ambulance fees. [[Call to the liberals: Unbelievable! That's great!]] In contrast, the model of the Austrian Federal Government and the ÖVP and FPÖ delegates provides zero fees at 10 000 S: This is a social dimension, ladies and gentlemen – and not your driving socialism, which you represent! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps you can count on the examples! 0.3 percent with an income of 10 000 S is 30 S per month, 420 S per year, 2 100 S in five years; 0.5 percent with an income of over 10 000 S are 50 S per month, 600 S per year, 3 000 S in five years. This would represent eight or twelve uses of 250 S or 14 respectively 20 uses of 150 S in five years. Ladies and gentlemen! And that should be social: those to whom the Federal Government does not charge an ambulance fee to lose by automatic means 14 or 20 ambulance fees, regardless of whether they go into the ambulance or not? Ladies and gentlemen! If you take advantage of the social dimension and if you, Mrs Silhavy, but also your previous speaker, Mr Gusenbauer, have said here that all of this is "husch-pusch", I should like to point out something. Ladies and gentlemen at the audience gallery and very many Austrian journalists may be aware of what I am about to read. I read the Bundeskrankenanstaltenanstaltengesetz, § 26 "Anstaltsambulatorien"; § 26 (1), Section 1 to point 5 has been in force since 1974, paragraphs 6 and 7 have been put into force in 1993. I read to: "Instaltsambulatorien. § 26. (1) In public hospitals in § 2 para. 1 Z 1 and 2 listed species are persons who do not need to examine or treat an outpatient treatment if they are first to benefit from first medical assistance, 2 to treat after first medical assistance, or in the continuation of a care in the hospital, which is to be carried out in the interest of the treated person in the same hospital, 3 to use methods of examination and treatment with such aids that are not available in an appropriate way or only to an insufficient extent outside the institution of the patient's place of residence, 4 on medical allocation for the collection of findings prior to inclusion in institution care, 5 in connection with organ and, finally, blood donation" - in force since 1974; now in force from 1993 on: –", 6th to carry out clinical tests of medicinal products or medical products or 7ths for the purposes of reproductive medicine." Ladies and gentlemen! This paragraph has been in force, as I have quoted, since 1974 and 1993. The fact that the application of ambulance charges, although these provisions have been legal status of the Hospital Law since 1974 and 1993 respectively, has led to difficulties in the assessment by those in the ambulances, was surprising for us in the government, but also for many Members here in the House. This is a question of 'husch-pusch' when laws from your time of government, ladies and gentlemen from the Social Democrats, have been in force since 1974 or 1993 and can no longer be implemented at once, and I wonder whether we are still on the ground of the rule of law or whether we are in a situation where it is possible simply to take action against the Federal Government or to reject the implementation of laws adopted here by the Federal Government and the High Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the difficult issue of health policy is not suitable for day-to-day political decommissioning. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We all assumed that the Austrian health system is one of the best in the world and that those in the health system do a lot of good for Austrian health care and for repair medicine. That is what I am going to do, my ministry, my officials, and obviously also the majority of the ladies and gentlemen here in the House for the future. In the negotiations with me on the reorganisation of the main association and on the current critical situation in the financing of hospitals, the social partners have clearly and clearly established that the supply of funds to the system is sufficient, but the distribution of funds within the system is not sufficient. It is striking, ladies and gentlemen, that, in the case of prescription fees and other fees, the Committee's report clearly and clearly speaks of "payers", but, contrary to that, where treatment fees have been paid in the ambulances, Mr Dietachmayr spoke of a "tax". Ladies and gentlemen! We should agree here in the House on the following: Taxes are taxes, fees are fees and taxes are taxes. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Another discussion and a mixture of discussions in an official report of this House, in a report from a committee, I think that I am a simple citizen and not a member of the government simply and simply unacceptable. We will see what assessment Austrian citizens are going to have – behind you or behind ours. Ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful to colleagues Dr. Grünewald for his comments. For five years, I have tried to reach the health insurance fund of the Federal State of Carinthia with its structural resources and, together with the main association, what you have called for in the course of your criticism: more planning facilities for established doctors, more planning facilities for specialists, a comprehensive supply. However, this has also been prevented by the main association due to the structural weakness of the Kärntner Landeskrankenkasse (Kärntner Landeskrankenkasse (Kärntner Landeskrankenkasse) – although it has made improvements in broad areas due to the criticism of the Court of Auditors – by not yet deciding on the necessary provision of funds from the compensation fund of the main association of the Austrian social security funds. I am very grateful to you for your criticism, which I also share, honourable Member. But I say it clearly and clearly here: In 1997, the Constitutional Court decided in a sense that group practices should be allowed in Austria. The ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian main association and the Chamber of Workers were those most massively opposed to allowing group practices in Austria under the conditions laid down by the recognition of the Constitutional Court. I therefore believe that, in this situation, the Austrians must also be made clear to them why the offers available in addition to the ambulances, the established structures are still not perfect and still not sufficiently available around the clock, 24 hours in 365 days. The accusation of this failure, ladies and gentlemen, can not be saved from those who have had the majority during the reign, and their representatives in the main association, but also in the Chamber of Workers. They have not provided for a structural change in the extra-mural area, yes, they have prevented it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that at this hour it is necessary and important to say to the Austrians: It can't go on like this! It is not possible to continue to resolve the structural problems raised by all, including the Greens and the Social Democrats, outside the hospitals in the discussion, to avoid using steering effects and to reject the implementation of legal provisions! This Federal Government has a medical law in preparation and will give it in review so that after the review can finally come in 2001 what the Constitutional Court recognized in 1997 as correct, namely group practices in Austria to improve extramural care. Ladies and gentlemen! This is to be discussed. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I think something else needs to be said: These funds are not transferred to the federal budget, but are allocated to the compensation fund of the Austrian health insurance companies and thus also to the hospitals. If you consider that, to a very different extent, between 17 and about 40 percent, the social security and health insurance companies are involved in the financing of hospitals, it is not correct to say that the ambulance fees are to be paid to the Austrian budget. In fact, they will contribute indirectly to the compensation fund of the health insurance institutions of Austria, which will contribute to the discharge of health insurance institutions which are not currently in a rosy situation. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that there has never been a discussion about the fact that two million Austrians, from the small railway to the auxiliary farmer, have had to pay treatment contributions. Today, the Chamber of Workers has argued that it has always spoken out against treatment contributions. However, you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, have to be said that you have repeatedly ignored this and have initiated and implemented the corresponding applications here in the House from the prescription fee to the treatment fees for four social security institutions. I therefore consider your criticism inadmissible from today's point of view! Something else, ladies and gentlemen, on the discussion about the steering effect. Notable politicians from you – from today's finance spokesman Edlinger, then responsible member of the government in Vienna, today's financial officer in Vienna and then health referent Rieder, to important other individuals from Social Democracy – have expressed their support for the steering effect, including my predecessor in 1995, Federal Minister Hums. I think, ladies and gentlemen, if you read out the publications from your own field, you would come to the realization that neither the steering effect nor the desired steering effect for social democracy in the past has presented a lack for the further development of the health system, but – on the contrary! – that you, ladies and gentlemen, who have been thrown into the discussion. I therefore believe that with today's decision on ambulance charges, we are opening up a legal space. I should also like to point out that the reason for the abolition of the ambulance fee is not in the matter, as it has been tried to present, but – if one understands the press conference of President Adamovich – is exclusively and solely in formal matters, namely in the two-way declaration, in the original and in the form of amendments. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The rest is coming!]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the arguments of the President of the Constitutional Court should not be distorted in this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3195	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3217	Mr President. Mr Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! The previous debate has already shown that two completely different points of view can be drawn from this issue of "treatment in ambulances". Position one, that of the opposition, reads as follows: Our aim is to strike political change on this issue, also at the price of an uncertainty of patients, also at the price of making people afraid. The other point of view is to get closer to this issue from the overall responsibility for health and public health. This is the position of the government parties: Overall responsibility for the country, for the health of citizens! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Just a few minutes ago, I saw a SPÖ amendment and I had to see: There's a third possibility. In this amendment tabled by the SPÖ, I have found the word "will be withdrawn" 11 times with rapid transparency. This corresponds to the method: "When I was gone," I created everything o!" But that can't be it, ladies and gentlemen! Eleven times "will be lifted up", "will be lifted up", "will be lifted up"! Ladies and gentlemen! When you look at today's issue – quite calmly, Mrs. Colleague! – quite quietly, objectively and soberly, you will give me the right to have the following situation in the health sector today: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] We have almost unlimited health needs of the population – almost unlimited – and we already have almost unlimited medical possibilities to satisfy these needs, but we only have very limited economic resources to satisfy these needs. The result is that, worldwide, there is no health system without self-retaining. There is no health system worldwide without self retention! The only question is: Where is the restraint, where is it?, and there we have two possibilities. Either we confess that self-retaining is to take place in the financial small risk: in the recipe fee, in the health certificate fee, in the ambulance fee, or – and so honestly you must say that, ladies and gentlemen, and I regret that we have been on this path for many years – we are following the path to the two-class medicine. Today, we have the situation that the financial small risk is rejected as a restraint by you, but at the same time you close your eyes on the way to the two-class medicine. – That is dishonest, that is not the courage to the truth, ladies and gentlemen! Admit that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have the way to the two-class medicine because we have two key health challenges. The first challenge is: Humanity, and the second is: economics. Both are no contradictions, because the most inhuman health care is that which we can no longer afford because of the cost explosion. In other words, the difference is: Either the individual takes on small financial risk so that the solidarity community covers the large financial risks – you all know too well that the medical services are getting more and more expensive, getting better and better – or it is the release of the path to the two-class medicine. But we don't want to! We don't want a two-class medicine, but we're so honest to say: If you don't want the two-class medicine, if you want insurance, the solidarity community to cover the big financial risks, whether kidney transplants or heart valve operations, then you must be ready to take over financial risks! – Something we have had for many, many years: Farmers' insurance, civil servants' insurance, railways, commercials, prescription fee, health certificate fee. This is exactly the way to prevent a two-class medicine: Small financial risks are taken over by the individual! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we need a basic humane attitude, social responsibility. But how can social responsibility be greater than by adopting a scheme that excludes more than 50 percent? So be honest, ladies and gentlemen: All the difficulties in the administration would have been eliminated with a blow if the government parties had said: That's what we're going through, that's what's true for everyone. Then we would have no problem at all with demarcation, no bureaucracy, no worries at all. But because we have just said out of our social responsibility that we want to take out the prescription-free people, we want to take out the children, we want to remove the pregnant, we want to take out the dialysis patients, we want to take out the chemotherapy patients, we want to take patients when transferring to other specialist ambulances – that is, a wealth of exceptions – the administration is of course more difficult than if we were to cross everyone and say: Everyone has to pay! Ladies and gentlemen! Please note: If you have the courage to the truth, if you have the overall responsibility for health care, just as these two government parties do, and if you then have the temptation to beat out political change and scatter people's sand into your eyes, you have to realize that this is the right way: The financial risks are to be borne by the individual, so that the large financial risks do not overshadow the individual.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3292	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3313	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A preliminary remark to you, Mr Pumberger: They praise Mr Rieder as an expert in heaven, that he is so deserved and renounced, also abroad, just because he at some point also used a corresponding fee. [[Abg. Donabauer: Several times! Several times!]] But on the other hand, your group is talking about the fact that Vienna's hospital system is a marod and urgently in need of renewal. – This is primarily not damaging to Mr Rieder in his credibility, but to your credibility, Mr Pumberger! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I have to tell you that. We cannot go here and quote Mr Rieder as an example for this and once for the opposite. Mr Rasinger! I noticed your speech, which is so "sudden" to you – but that also speaks for itself –: "The Austrians are world champions in the Im-Spital-Liegen!" [[Abg. Binder: That's right!]] Mr Rasinger! What does that have to do with what we are negotiating today? [[Abg. Binder: Not everyone can afford it anymore!]] What's that got to do with it? Nothing! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Whether it's true or not, what does that have to do with it? But that doesn't happen to slip out in this context, and that's actually interesting. That is to say, the hospital – and you know exactly what I mean – is actually costing hospitals, and here the question should be asked: Are the ambulance charges actually helping to redirect the hospitalized area, in the case of the outpatient part of the stationary area, to established doctors, ambulatorys of established doctors? That's the question, and how do you answer the question? - Not at all! Ladies and gentlemen! Interesting is the following: There is a committee proposal, and we have now received an amendment which does not, but does not stand at all, exactly on this cost issue, which you are always meeting. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There's nothing in it! Obviously, you cannot answer this question! You may well be able to say something about the revenue – these have been estimated at between 1 and 1.2 billion schilling – but what this means in the consequence of cost relief for the hospital carriers, you can't say that! You also know exactly why you can't say this: because it's rather not expected that the hospital carriers, the hospitals themselves, will have a cost relief. – That’s understandable, too! Ambulances will have to maintain and make available their infrastructure to a large extent. So there is no cost relief. But if the effect you want, namely that you actually have a steering effect to the established doctors, then there is an additional burden, and this extra burden has also been specifically estimated in the Committee by the representatives of the main association with about half a billion schillings. Now you're expecting: Around 1 billion schilling brings you the introduction of the ambulance fee, half a billion schilling costs the insurances exactly this introduction by increased doctor fees; remained under the line for half a billion. Of course, the Minister can say: That pays off, half a billion! But keep expecting! Do not calculate the administrative cost contribution that you impose on health insurance companies of 6.5 percent, but count a little more concrete. They have an idea of what that means when health insurances, which do not make their bills with doctors, write to the patient a letter that does not have a warning, this new kind of billing, the control must first set up. Calculate simply and simply with what the requirement of an ambulance fee at postage fees costs – that's not difficult –, count You continue what the processing costs for health insurance providers – that is not difficult either – and you have nothing left of half the billion we have left now! Where is the financing effect in this case? But please, Mr. Rasinger says that this has a steering effect. Mr Rasinger! Where is the steering effect for the disabled? We discussed this in the first place. 80 percent of the practices – we all know that the expert of the ARGE Rehab has also confirmed this – are not possible for the disabled. Where is the control effect? He can't go to the established doctor, he has to go to the ambulance! Is it desirable that this disabled person should pay for it now? Is this really your concept that the disabled person has to pay for it? 80 per cent of the visits of ambulances – also found – are made on medical transfer. 80 percent! The doctor – and I am here with you, Mr. Rasinger – should have the function of the gatekeeper. I'm going to the practical doctor, to the doctor of my trust, and he tells me what to do, and then I'm transferred to the ambulance. Where's the steering effect, colleague Rasinger? Now let me tell the doctor: No, dear Dr. Rasinger – when I'm in his treatment – you don't send me to the ambulance now, because that's a way that the Minister doesn't want, but I want to go to the specialist! Then Dr. Rasinger will probably tell me that he needs these and those results and controls, these and those diagnosiss, and I can only get them in the ambulance! That's it, Dr. Rasinger. But what is the control and steering effect? The desired steering and control effect is that I send someone to the practitioner – gatekeeper function. You control across by providing this forwarding by the family doctor with a penalty fee when the person is sent to the hospital. Is this a productive measure? Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Rasinger! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] An absolutely counterproductive measure is that which stands completely across from what we would consider to be the desired control and steering functions in health care across the party's borders! [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. I don't know.]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Third point: Special ambulances. I have already mentioned the subject in committee, and Mrs Silhavy has already mentioned this point here. What do you say? Are you, then, an insured person from Burgenland who suffers from severe rheuma? – This insured person is there, he reported to me on Friday and asked me: What am I supposed to do? I have to go to Vienna! There is no rheuma ambulance in Burgenland! – In the Burgenland there is no corresponding ambulatory of established doctors that could help him further. He drives to Vienna, and you tax him at 150 or 250 p. – Is this a desired steering effect, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can't sell that to anyone, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I don't think who asked!]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is the best solution for you after this unfortunate chain of circumstances for which you are responsible. The unfortunate chain – which has begun, but has not yet ceased – has begun by the fact that the Constitutional Court has lifted the decision for formal reasons. He hasn't done any in-depth examination yet, it's waiting for you! And no matter if he had examined the old scheme, or if he was now examining the new scheme: It is very likely, also on the basis of the opinion of the Constitutional Service, that it will also repeal this new regime. Skill Then you're happy? Skill You then make the opposition responsible for what you have produced? Where are we going, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to make a point in this debate, whether in committee or here in plenary, or yesterday in the "Zu dass" mission, only those who want to protest against what you are planning, for reasons of substance? They want to "put the craftsmanship" – that is what we heard yesterday in the programme "To the cause", which is the new method in social policy, such as dealing with social insurance companies, with employers, but not only with farmers, but also with everyone else, for example with teachers. If they are unwarranted, then the craft must be laid to them. And with this regulation, ladies and gentlemen, lay down They are not only the Austrians who expect a well-functioning health care, the craftsmanship, but also themselves! You don't control this craft, that's the real problem. That's why I'm telling you: If you cannot accept this motion for a resolution, then at least a referral back to committee. That would be a possibility you should make use of, because as it is so beautiful: Speed kills! You prove once again that you are not able to take your own knowledge seriously, to conduct debates thoroughly and seriously, but that you want to go over it, and to do so to all those who encounter it, with the threat: We're still putting you the craft!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3475	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Grünewald, Mr Oellinger, Mr Freundes is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. As I have just been told, Mr Pilz has also made an apologies for today's sitting. [[Calls.]] The next speaker was Mrs Hartinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3511	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Oellinger, I may You calm down: We understand our craftsmanship! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: But which one?]] Wherever the Social Democrats held the financial responsibility, they left behind a catastrophic state – the Social Democrats; please listen, Mr. Oellinger – whether it be for the entire state budget, on the one hand, or for the main association of the health insurance companies or individual local health telephones. [[Abg. Oil: Who? We?]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The record already has a jump!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They were unable to secure an efficient health and social system. They knew exactly that there are different funding systems for the established doctors and thus for the care of the patients. They knew exactly that social insurance did not allow group practices. They knew exactly that there were no comprehensive cash contracts. They knew that social security schemes did not use patient-oriented opening hours under the Treaties. They didn't care that the patients had long time to arrive at the ambulances – you didn't care. [[Abg. Oillinger: What makes it shorter now?]] You didn't care that foreign patients are better placed than Austrians due to a lack of accounting system. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - You didn't care! Where was your commitment to the social component? Now you're putting us, our government's social cold and a driving over?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Nürnberger: That's what Haider does!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, I say to you: If you were still in the government, we would have an increase in social security contributions and ambulance fees. I bet you did this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Prammer, you have made an actual correction here as regards the statement that Mr Edlinger and Councillor Rieder have already expressed their support for ambulance charges and self-retaining. Have you forgotten that two years later – not only in 1995, but in 1997 – Rieder City Councillor was very likely to speak for self-retaining? He said... [[Abg. May. Prammer: This is a half-truth!]] – Please, I can show you in black and white that city councillor Rieder has spoken out for self-retaining and an ambulance fee in the hospitals. And that's why I'm wondering why you're betting about it now! [[Abg. May. Prammer: That's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Although you are said to be so opposed, you have introduced constant restraints: Auxiliary care, prescription fees, reception rate for the stationary stay – all the self-holds you have introduced! Have you forgotten all this? I hope that They don't suffer from memory wounds. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: No!]] Didn't you forget that? Then I'm calmed down. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: When I see you, I think of everything! When I hear you, I think more!]] But why do you want to push us into the shoes now that we have no social understanding and no social competence? Where were the workers' chamber and the union when you introduced these things? Many groups of people, such as farmers, traders, officials, teachers and the railways, already pay fees, self-holds, pay ambulance fees. Where was Mr. Edler then? – He's not even here in the hall now. The railways also pay some self-hold, but there he slept, he did not say anything. In the context of the discussion in the Committee, I would like to say in general that your alleged experts are purely lobbyists for me and claim things that are absolutely without any materiality. They have zero willingness – and this is bothering me – to a constructive change, to flexibility and reform. For example, the main association says that the ambulance charges are a lot of administrative burden and one will not get along with the 6.5 percent we grant them. The local health phone all along mentions that they have only 3% of administrative costs. And from the outset, they can't deal with the 6.5 percent? I have to hold one, ladies and gentlemen: The social security schemes, the main association, do not want to implement this law! That's their goal, that's why they're so against it. They don't want any change, and they don't want to work for their insured. They do not think of the best medical care for patients, they think only of securing their system and their power. That's her problem! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, want an optimal supply on site, that is: continuous care, time for the patient and quick, competent treatment. And the best thing for this is, ladies and gentlemen, who is with the patients and who knows the patient: the house doctor. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, have not controlled the health system, but have waited for what is happening. You've been watching! They have covered the hospitals and sent patients to the ambulances diligently, because this has not cost any social security. This is a policy at the expense of the weaker. We, ladies and gentlemen, pack the bull with the horns and act. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats: If you had been to the government for even longer, we would have an unfinancing health system of the United Kingdom, where from a certain age no dialysis is possible and where there are long waiting times for operations. We want a financial human health system for the patients – we stand by it, especially our Minister's head!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3687	The next speaker was Mr Dietachmayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3720	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A well-known proverb says: You'll be smart out of mistakes. – Obviously this does not apply to this federal government, because it seems to be all uninstructable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Although the Constitutional Court will, as we know, abolish these provisions, the next Husch-Pfusch solution comes with which we have to deal today. Instead of using the removal of ambulance charges as an opportunity for a rethinking break, this government continues on its own without actually hearing the experts. At today's committee meeting, experts were invited, but the conclusions to be drawn from their fears, as you can see, have not been implemented again in the amendment. Mainly, it's fast, that's important to you. "Speed kills" is your currency, and you continue your policy indefinitely. You'll even put up with an ambulance fee by reducing the exceptions, so that in the future even more people from this unfair health tax – even if You don't like to hear that, Minister of the State, it doesn't matter whether this is a tax or a fee – it's affected and they have to pay. Criticism also comes from your own ranks, ladies and gentlemen! The "simple party member" from Carinthia tells you that too. According to Haider, the government has acted badly in connection with the abolition of ambulance charges. In terms of social security, he said: In any case, the debate on social security would have been as unnecessary as a crook. – That doesn't say anything other than your former party president. To this end, the Minister of Finance has only one statement: He calls Haider's criticism unwarranted. - That's how it looks! Your social spokesperson, who is apologizing today – we wish him a quick recovery – has said – I quote –: "The limit of the loads, the availability for the population is reached." One should try to bring in the 800 million elsewhere. And he went on to say: "I am against the fact that this is happening in this hurry and hasty form. There have already been mistakes in the hurry. I fear that will happen again." Yes, Mr Gaugg, you are not here today, but this mistake will happen again. That is what others say, such as the ÖAAB Group, AK Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, your colleagues Gajdosik and Nurembergers say, "Leiden, wait, pay". [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: The Nuremberger at the ÖAAB?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Dirnberger!]] "Even in the past, so many people have been insecure to us. "Health policy" – I quote literally – "may not become the playing field of dileting politicians from the hits of Riess-Passer, Head and Waneck." – Not a SPÖ politician, but one of you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Even the president of the Austrian Medical Chamber says: I would like the disputed fee to be renegotiated, with all the experience that has been gained so far. The head of the Vienna Chamber of Physicians Walter Dorner also hit the same horn: This is help from "all the way up," he says, even the dear God now helps the government and gives it the chance to correct the mistakes. – Why do it? Don't you? Why do you stick so tightly to this solution? Have you ever thought about why so many people are voting against this ambulance fee? I don't need to go into all the details now, they're already known about the emergency, the pooling of specialists. Where is there a pooling of the specialist doctors? Certainly only in the agglomerations and not in rural areas. There is no other way for patients to visit ambulances. It is also significant to note the style of this procedure, namely that not even the main association and the health insurance companies that need to implement this new regulation were involved in this legislative change; they were not even informed in time. Ladies and gentlemen! Did you think that the administrative burden will double on the basis of this new regulation? There will be an administrative burden to be calculated twice, in the ambulance and in the health insurance companies. There are many inconsistencies with regard to the total collection. They write here that the amount of treatment to be withdrawn in retrospect for the first time on 1 January. It must be lifted in October. This provision is highly unclear. That's not going to happen at all, because with 1. The third quarter cannot yet be prescribed in October. [[Call the liberals: For you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: We are only in the second!]] So: All around a punch, you just have to say that. I don't want to talk about what happens when a patient has to be in the hospital overnight because he thinks I'll save myself the ambulance fee. This is only happening again because he then has to pay two daily rates. [[Abg. Donabauer: Who introduced them, the tags?]] Mr Khol is not in the house, but I would like to conclude by quoting one of his statements from last week. Mr Khol said: "For every letter in the alphabet, from A to Z, we have carried out a reform." [[Abg. Auer: Who was the inventor of the tags?]] - Yes, he's right: A such as the reduction of benefits and Z such as the destruction of our social system!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3833	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3854	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! You don't have to be happy about everything, even though we have on the one hand a very good health system over all areas, on the other hand a lot of unprocessed, upcoming problems. They need to be solved now. As good as our health system is, the saying is: Those who want to preserve good must change some things! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And if, as a coalition partner in the case at that time, we might have made a mistake at some point, then that we gave you scope. In 1995, they were very enthusiastic about introducing the ambulance fee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] That's right! I can read it to you here. It won't take that long. That's where you write: Good morning, Mrs. Minister! Say hello! – The then Minister of Finance Staribacher has been in office for a short time, remember? – Mrs Krammer, Minister of Human Rights, they have been passionate about talking and then they have said: There's something to come! Then Rieder City Councillor came in, and then Edlinger City Councillor came in, and all five said in admirable commonness: Yes, contribution increases may not come for now, but ambulance fees, 200 S to 300 S are reasonable to anyone! One, a very prominent, knight, said: Anyone who goes to the ambulance has to pick up the wallet! – That's what the newspapers write, I didn't invent. Look, that's how it was! Therefore, I would like to ask you for one thing – I can imagine that you have no joy with it, I can really imagine it –: To help and to help ensure that this health system is safe and affordable in the future throughout its width and in all its facets. That's what it's all about! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In debates in the German Bundestag, where there is also an opposition, the opposition goes forward, puts the topics on the table hard and says: Government, you make a mistake, we have the better concept! Except that you told us again and again how bad and bad everything was, and asked us to finally accept our heart – I tell you: finally accept competence! –, I haven't heard anything today. Now we have to get to the point! We have tried very hard to solve even the difficult cases. Read the bill! There are a number of derogations which are really reasonable and applicable. Yes, we have revised things, have submitted a request again today, and I believe that this would be acceptable to you without further delay if you could only jump over your shadows. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] That is how it is, Mr President, that there is nothing to do, Mr Vergestnich. This can't be different! You won't pass that either. Let's open up what our problem is. Mr President of the Trade Union Confederation, the ÖGB, you know it, too, and you are a man who really deals with these issues in detail. What's our problem? Our problem is that we can get older, our problem is that demographic development is heading in the direction that calls for new proposals. Our problem is that we have a performance explosion that we can offer something for almost all areas of malaise today. Our problem is – and you bear the same responsibility for it; I don't want to steal from it – that we really don't have any awareness of values as to what is offered to us every day in health care. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These are the questions that we should consider very closely here. I believe that what is stated in this proposal is reasonable to everyone, since there is a ceiling of 1 000 s per year. You can now hear the sentence again and again: For God's sake, how poor are social insurance now because they have to administer the ambulance fee! – I also come from this area and can say: I have still seen my job as a representative of social security in such a way that we all have to do what people, what the insured, are doing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's our postulate! We are committed to this, we have to work for it, and we will see it that way in the future. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] To conclude, I would like to say: I think we're trying to get all that's up to what's not done. On the whole, I would like to say: I have here a whole list of self-preservations, all of which were decided at a time when not this government was in office, but in the other governments it was saying, and we still felt it was right and necessary. – Have the courage, Mrs Social Spokesman, and say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] Yes, we are continuing the course that has begun.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3974	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e3996	Mr President. Mr Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Social Minister, I would expect you to listen to this debate, because I believe it is an important matter, and you should find time to be here in Parliament not only visually present, but also to follow this discussion. [[Federal Minister Mag. Head is next to the government bank and talks with one of its employees]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Alone. Your behavior, that you have private conversations in the background, clearly shows how no matter what it is for you, what happens to sick people in Austria. [[Abg. Steibl: specialist talks!]] Mr Rasinger asked today: Yes, is it unsocial, if – and I am now expanding his sentence and speaking to him to the end – disabled people who cannot go into medical practice because there are stages there, and therefore have to go into an ambulance, have to pay fees? – I can give you the answer, Mr Rasinger: Yes, it is unsocial if you force these people to pay ambulance fees because doctors refuse to seek medical practices that are accessible to the disabled! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Yes, Minister of Social Affairs, it is unsocial that disabled people must pay ambulance fees! Yes, Minister of Social Affairs, it is unsocial that people who are mentally and chronically ill should pay ambulance fees! Yes, Mr Social Minister, it is also unsocial that people, because they do not have their own transport and there is no public transport to a sufficient extent and because, for example, they cannot drive 60 kilometres to the next specialist practice and therefore must go to the hospital's ambulance, pay an ambulance fee! Yes, Minister, this is unsocial! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I could give you a whole series of examples of how unsocial you and this Federal Government are specifically towards those people who do not have the same opportunities as you, ladies and gentlemen here in this House, who are healthy and not disabled, who are not chronically ill, who are not mentally handicapped. Not all people have this advantage or this privilege, but the people who do not have this happiness will punish you on the most brutal, dear Mr Minister. It has already been said several times today: There are other insurance institutions that are very likely to make a contribution. – I can tell you: Yeah, there are, and they're unfortunately there. I do not agree that a staff member in E-Position today only has to pay fees because he is an official if he has to go to the ambulatory. I can afford to pay for it, but many of my friends will not be able to afford to visit an ambulance in the future because they simply and simply don't have the money for it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You, Mr Minister, said you do not want a two-class medicine. – To this end, Mr Minister, I must say: They have already created a two-class medicine, because it is a question of the financial circumstances which I can still afford today and which I can no longer afford. The two-class medicine is already available, and you, Mr Sozialminister, are responsible for it. Minister! They were today able to hear from a high-level representative of the ÖAR that 80 percent of all ambulances are still not accessible. They have been refusing my request for years, in which I ask to make all doctor's practices barrier-free. All of this isn't a subject for you, essentially, you're punishing people because they're sick. That, ladies and gentlemen, is really an unsustainable state in Austria! You, ladies and gentlemen of this Federal Government, who have created this state of affairs that can no longer afford any disease to take medical treatment, also have the responsibility to bear the responsibility for the high cost of the consequences of untreated diseases of people. What have you done in recent years? . As far as the disability sector is concerned, you have taxed accident pensions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] This is a big minus for every individual who is disabled today. You have also introduced the ambulance charges, although you have always said: No, we will create an exception for disabled persons, for physically disabled persons, for mentally disabled persons, for chronically ill persons! – You did nothing like that! You have now charged all these groups with this "strength tax" with this "sickness tax". Mr Sozialminister! I'm not appealing to Your social conscience, because I don't know what I should appeal to – you haven't had this social conscience for a long time – but I only appeal to your reason, because I assume you still have it, and try to distance you from this "strength control" and agree to our request that the ambulance fee is not introduced. I would also ask you not only to agree to our request, but also to convince your government groups that this is the right way. In this respect, I hope for your reason and not for your social vein!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e4092	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Saviour. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e4114	Mr President. High house! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Very right, Mr President, you are perfectly right: It is always the old pattern that you as opposition parties display: You stir up, you insecure the people, you scandalize, you spread half- and untruths and you simply inform wrong! [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And not only do you, but also your friends in the Chamber of Workers, in the ÖGB and where they sit everywhere else. [[Abg. Oillinger: "Yes, yes"!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! With you, there is no objective discussion possible, and that is simply because you operate fundamental opposition, because you are from the outset opposed to everything that this government does, be it as meaningful as it is. [[continuing calls to the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Abg. Ollinger: "Yes"!]] That is why you are not able to discuss matters with us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: An argument for the ambulance charges!]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] You know very well, ladies and gentlemen of Red Green, that reforms are necessary, you also know very well that we need to take action in the social security field, because the health system has a huge cost and therefore there are excessive deficits. However, they do not want to admit that the restructuring course of this Federal Government is absolutely necessary and also useful. [[Abg. Oellinger: What does the Haider say?]] It has even stressed several times that your partyobmann Gusenbauer agrees with this rehabilitation course. But it is you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, who are ultimately responsible for this debacle in the government budget. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Especially you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, are responsible for this debt mountain, and despite this responsibility you refuse any insight. [[new calls to the SPÖ]] You would continue to make debt – you have admitted it several times – and you would continue your debt policy on the back of the younger generation, and that is objectionable. This federal government will not be involved, because it shows responsibility for the young people and for the future of the people in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: An argument for the ambulance fee!]] I can tell you one argument, Mr Oellinger. We have to introduce this ambulance fee – and it makes sense – simply because we have to put in place a steering measure because the costs in the ambulance are three to four times as high as those of the established doctors. [[Abg. Oellinger: That's not true!]] You know as well as I do that this ambulance fee is quite reasonable and fair, because four other social security companies already collect self-holds. And you know, too, my Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, that your own people called for this reform step years ago. We need to make it possible to transform our colleague, Mr Oellinger, patient flows into the extra-mural area. We must manage to get away from the expensive ambulances to the much cheaper established doctors. [[Abg. Oellinger: If one of the family doctors assigns to the ambulance?]] With the same medical quality – this I expressly emphasize! – medical care is to take place. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: The family doctor admits! If the family doctor does it himself! In 80 percent of cases, the family doctor assigns!]] It has already been said today that we must be able to maintain Austria's health system at a high level. - Of course! Mr Gusenbauer is right when he says that we must strive for this! But precisely that is why we need these steering effects to ensure long-term medical care on the one hand and, on the other hand, to maintain quality, not only for a few but for all Austrians. [[Abg. Oillinger: It's not there in the settled area at all!]] That is why we need to put in place savings measures. [[Abg. Oils: It's laborious: They're uninstructable!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know that very well, and therefore I do not understand why in this important area you deliberately misinformed and consciously Make your political change on the back of people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The shark also seems to be misinformed!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Tell your Dr. Haider!]] Today we have heard in the Committee several experts who have identified this step as an important step which has called for this controlling intervention, who have said that these moderate fees are also suitable to ensure such steering effects. [[Abg. Oil: The Gaugg!]] These ambulance charges are socially thought-out and moderate: 250 S without transfer, 150 S with transfer, covered with 1 000 S per year, with important exceptions for real social weakness, in which the collection of ambulance fees is also regarded by this Federal Government as an unfair hardness and are therefore excluded from such, such as children, pensioners, pregnant women and donors. Also when referring to other ambulances and, above all, what is very important, in the area of radiation and chemotherapy and in dialysis, patients are excluded. Ladies and gentlemen! Because you sometimes refer to a possible illegality of the constitution here, I can tell you: If at all, then it is precisely these exceptions that could include elements of the unconstitutional nature. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Then you'd have to make her fail!]] Therefore, I do not understand that you are concerned about these socially necessary and justified exceptions. That is why I think it is also right and good that you can show here in a separate vote how you stand on this problem. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The treatment fee is justified, it is necessary, it is an important steering measure and constitutes a tax reform in order to be able to save the Austrian social security system as a whole. I ask you again and appeal to your reason: Do not refuse your consent to any reasonable proposal! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: We appeal to your heart!]] Help secure the social security for the weak of our society for the future too!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e4416	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e4437	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! "Husch-Puff" and "Management by Chaos" – so you can rightly describe the procedure in today's decision-making of the "New Ambulance Fee". Minister Chief! You can turn it and turn it as you want, you will certainly not be able to make this "Ambulance Punishment Fee" the Austrians tasty! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the amendment tabled by Mr Pumberger and Mr Rasinger is to be the result of our deliberations in the Committee today, I must say: You can imagine what would be here today if this committee had been completed and a review procedure had been carried out. Then today we would save ourselves the decision on this "renewal of the ambulance fee". There would be no "ambulance fee new", ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is exactly what, Dr. Pumberger, has moved us to do not agree with the deadline, because we do not want to act as a climbing sticker in the case of such a Husch-Pufst-Law. We Socialists reject – you know that exactly – ambulance penalty fees! It's supposed to be clear once and for all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: (a recipe form in height) I'll write you something!]] Another point, Mr Pumberger: This is not a refusal to work on the part of the opposition, as you falsely submitted to us, but it is simply our refusal to carry along this Husch-Fuch procedure mentioned by me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Witchlands.]] - That's just the way it is. You do not even have the knowledge of the Constitutional Court, and you are already going to the next piper, Mrs Colleague. That's your problem! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's amazing, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, how fast You're ready to repeat this legistic pussy. This guarantees at least an entry in the "Guinness Book of Records". Only: You should not be proud, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the run-up to today's debate on the "New Ambulance Punishment Fee" the FPÖ has specifically signaled that it wants to reform its policy in dialogue with the citizens, in particular with the weaker ones. So, in the division of the "simple party member" from Carinthia: Politics with heart and brain! But today's procedure, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, demasks you: Hole phrases, stagings, and downcassing continue to be the maxim of your policy – and not the problems of the people in this country! The people in this country, however, have looked through you. They have now come to know the difference between claim and reality. You know the result, not only in Vienna, but also in Burgenland. This has already been voted on several times – but not in your sense! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But also at the ÖVP one stands stream to this misguided "Ambulance punishment tax". From Christian-social values it is relatively difficult to note that they should have turned away from lobbyism and the elbow, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. Only some ÖAAB national officials have rediscovered their social conscience. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Listen to these officials! They have content and social competence in this matter. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: If lobbyism and dilettantism as in your case is the ultimate goal of "government new", then the result is a "Ambulance Tax" which is completely secondary to the matter, even more unsocial, which is rejected by people in this country, because they do not understand the meaning of this "Ambulance Tax". With today's decision-making of this "Ambulance Tax" it is only one thing that is clear: The next repair will not wait for very long. The Constitutional Court will order them soon. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e4532	The next item is the speech by Mr Leiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e4553	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I really don't know what not to be Christian here. In my opinion, it is Christian, when something becomes financeable, accessible to all and socially compatible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: That's Christian!]] We are now trying to go this way. And I would like to look back a few years at this point and once again point out the following: In 1976, the coalition of ÖVP and SPÖ was prepared to make a structural change in health care. The LKF system has already been created in 1976. I repeat: 1976! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] It was then discussed by 1997; that is true. But I would like to suggest that a 22-point programme has already been designed in 1992 in which the Minister of Health would have had some tasks to solve, but which he did not solve, including the task of finding and re-establishing a financing system for social security. It wasn't done. I just want to point this out. Structural funds have been allocated to the countries from the federal government in millions of years. And if you know that the posts of the respective national councils are occupied by socialists – or were occupied by socialists in the past – then you have to admit that these structural funds were not used to build up the extramural services, to expand and to build infrastructure in the periphery, but it was all just put into hospitals again, and it was not realized what we needed and what we needed. All this has been missed. If today is finally taken a step forward, then you have to say that is simply necessary, even if at the moment some people are hurting because it does not fit into their ideology. And it's true: We have the social market economy, and this is a paradigm change. That's right! We are moving away from the socialist form of thinking and towards a social market economy. You have to respect that. What don't we want now? – We do not want social hardship, we do not want to reduce the supply of the population, we do not want long routes, routes, journey times, and we do not want long waiting times in the ambulances. Above all, we do not want to be unfair in the treatment of different groups of people, whether in the constituency centres or in the periphery. And we have to take appropriate measures to do so. What do we want to achieve? – We want to build and guarantee a comprehensive, broad-based medical care. What does that mean? We want to establish in the periphery – I say this again and again – all health professions, not just medical care, but really all health professions accordingly. We also want to establish care so that the care of the home, physical therapy, the logoaedics and so on can be used accordingly on site. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We want this paradigm change, the shift away from the hospital, out into the periphery, and for that we need to raise awareness. Of course, it used to be so that everyone just said: Get in the hospital! - We want to get people out again. Remember that we also need to cheer up hospitals, even through organizationally. Stationary patients in hospitals often have to take long waiting periods to find themselves in the appropriate treatment rooms and outpatients because they are very often occupied by the outpatient patients. We therefore choose a new path, but it needs to be taken so that the system becomes more human and, above all, more favourable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e4616	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e4637	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too am very, very, very curious, who will bear the blame for the chaos that you are causing again today. Will it be the experts again? Will it be the "evil opposition"? – That’s the simplest thing at all: The "evil opposition" is always to blame when the government does something. But maybe even blame the patient. I believe that this would be the greatest pang that could come to the patients here if they were to be blamed if the ambulance fee did not work, ladies and gentlemen! A few more entry-level remarks. [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: "Husch-Pusch" don't forget!]] – Once you call Edlinger, once Rieder, but it doesn't help anything. If you stand out here and always bring only half of a report and leave out the second half, then that is simply and gripping the untruth you are saying here, and I have to focus on that again and again. Remember: At that time, it was also about the funding of hospitals. You complain today when we talk about an ambulance tax, but you know exactly where the money goes from the ambulance charges, not to the hospital financing, but, for example, 500 million schillings are needed annually to finance the farmers, ladies and gentlemen, and for that the sick are asked to cash out! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Farmers have been paying ambulance fees for 35 years!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But at a much lower height!]] [[Further calls.]] That is why it is a tax, just as it is for tuition fees. You have also introduced a tax and no charge, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] Another question of entry into service. I also ask myself all the serious questions as to how you can skip from the future to the present, because you all know – the evidence has been brought to you – that it is not the case that the established doctors have appropriate opening hours of their practices in order to be able to care for the people accordingly. I have already said this in the Committee today: I made the effort yesterday and called all the gynecologists in Linz. I have examined the specific question: What happens if a pregnant woman is acute when she is in pain and does not know exactly where the pain comes from? You are now making a change on the basis of the calls for opposition on this point, I must say, a very positive change, but, Mr Feurstein, Mr President: The pregnant woman may not know where the pain comes from. She just needs medical attention. Now she is even faced with the burden of proof that these pains come from the condition of pregnancy and do not perhaps have another reason! – This is white cynicism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the latest since today, we know that the members of the government and the members of the government parties are only children of wonder. Today we have been presented to us in the committee that they themselves, exclusively themselves, are the experts, above all on medical issues. For example, if Mr. Minister has explained to us the way in which we have to go, if one has swallowed a fish-bone, it has been very plausible that all the members of the government parties have had the right answer on the Committee. However, the fact is that it is not the way you described it, and secondly, all of this will lead to a great uncertainty among patients. That's what we can assume. There is a legislative text – the Committee did not yet have the final one, as we know – and on this legislative text, which truly did not make the experts, the experts should have suddenly provided the answers to questions that you cannot even answer yourself. Ladies and gentlemen! That's unfair, and that's inappropriate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the last two days – especially yesterday, medially – you have talked a lot about abuse, about political necessity, about someone who lays the craftsmanship and other terms of this kind. I use these words now too. Yes, it's actually abuse, it's actually political necessity, and I hope people in this country will be presenting the bill to you anyway, and that at times. I'm convinced. Just keep doing that! It can be right for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e4745	Mr Donabauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e4769	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Mag. Prammer said that Mr Rieder and Mr Edlinger had not made the quoted statements. I'll correct her. ==References====External links== ==References== This is exactly what you, Mrs Prammer, have asked about twice in the year 1995. Secondly, you claimed today and here that the ambulance fee would be used to finance the SV farmers or farmers' health insurance. – That’s wrong! The behaviour of SV farmers and their financing is not affected. It is true that farmers, traders, railways and officials have always paid ambulance fees! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Please note!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e4816	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e4838	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Prammer, your speech was held in exactly the same way as the addresses of the representatives of the interests of the workers, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and the Chamber of Labour, in which half-truths operate and a new form or law is not objectively assessed, but one-sidedly, although the excess-party bodies should be. So did you, Mrs Prammer. It is in the sense of parliamentarianism when one has different opinions on a subject. They propose, for example, increases in contributions, i.e. increases in health insurance, and the alternative is simply the ambulance fee. It would be my wish if there were no fees throughout Austria if there were no self-retaining and no health insurance contributions, and if no taxes were to be paid. That would be the best! But then we would be in Schlaraffenland and not here in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But we have a significant debt and a significant loss at the social security institutions. Although the Hausemann study was completed before the last legislative period, nothing has happened in this respect in the main association at all. The debt mountain is still there, just as it used to be. In principle, you have Their social ministers, who have been responsible for this and have commissioned this Hausemann study, never supported it, but simply turned it under the carpet. This seems to me like a rusty car: You just painted over it and you didn't fight the rust as it should be fought, from the beginning. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today we have self-retained in the most diverse systems, and there are different achievements and different contributions. The public officials, the farmers, the self-employed, the railways, all of them have long paid a restraint, they have always carried a restraint, even at the time when you were from the SPÖ alone to the government. For 30 years you have put the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Social Affairs, but you have not changed that. They apparently did not think it necessary to change something here. And it's already been mentioned today: Mr Rieder, Health Councillor, too, has once considered an ambulance fee. The Minister for Social Affairs has set a simple example. And I've also been thinking about: How often do you go into an ambulance? How often does someone go to the doctor? – And the invoice he has drawn up has shown that your proposal would be more expensive for the Austrian insured than the ambulance fee. That's the fact! That's what's left of it. And when Mr. Klubobmann of the SPÖ speaks of arrogance, of an arrogant procedure, I must ask: Who has the whole thing to answer? – It is the greatest arrogance, now, after a year in opposition, to beat this federal government, this coalition for things that has actually caused its group. That's the problem! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Also interesting were the statements of the "experts" in the committee today, such as those from the ÖGB. That's crazy! That's not an expert! He has acted there party-politically like a Member who represents his positions, but not objectively! There was no objective weighing, but pure polemics. On such "experts" we can pipe! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Lively contradiction at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: This is a scandal!]] That's a scandal? – Such "experts" are a scandal! What are you thinking?- Oh, my God! I told you that I do not necessarily agree with ambulance charges, with self-taining. I can't do that, but let's take a look at it. And that is the better regulation, the cheaper regulation for Austrian insured persons than your proposal! That's the fact. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] And if you criticize here that the quarterly requirement is too expensive, that's how it goes into emptiness. A number of insurance companies that withdraw treatment contributions do exactly the same. And since self-retaining is already done today, the administrative capacity in this case is the same. But you're causing a mess! You don't make politics with heart, you're making politics with fear! With the fear and with the uncertainty of the Austrian population you make politics! That's the fact! Take note of this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] This coalition, this federal government will be measured in its actions and not in the uncertainty that you are spreading!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e4958	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Plank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5001	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Dolinschek, first of all I think: You'll need a doctor soon if you get so upset here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger is demonstratingly putting the arm around Abg. Dolinschek.]] - You're in bad hands, I noticed. [[Call the SPÖ:Herzfarkt!]] Secondly, You're not the censorship authority here, you may have forgotten. You are not the one who has to find out what expert is allowed to say in the committee. This is our house! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Donabauer and Mr Dolinschek! You know very well that the average amount of self retention for those groups that have to pay self retention is much lower for the ambulance visit than what you want to prescribe to the sick people now: with this chaotic measure you intend to carry out today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's called Haider from Carinthia. This is a new evidence for your driving! The ambulance fee is undoubtedly a new obstacle measure in this Federal Government, which will pay more than others for a health system that has so far been an excellent health system for the sick, sufferers and people with special needs. [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you really believe that?]] This federal government benefits from social weakness, the sick and the needy and degradates them to the sanctifiers of the budget. That's your policy! And this federal government also admits that – and now I quote a member of the government coalition – healthy people should not pay for the sick. – That was said here by this speaker’s desk once in a while. So: Get away with the thought of solidarity, with the thought of justice, and with the thought of the government's responsibility for all Austrians! Hönische Zynism is here from this pult for sick people when the health speaker of the ÖVP, the applicant for this non-social request, turns out to be here today and says: The Austrians are world champions in the hospital beds. – Thank you, Dr. Rasinger, for showing what kind of human image you have and what picture of sick people you have! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to thank you as a sick person who may have been in the hospital right now – ask Dr. Ofner, he was there recently – for this judgment if I need help in the hospital! But your report fits seamlessly with what Mr Waneck once said. He said that the Austrian's favourite living room was the ambulance of a hospital. – Equal values, the same human image! Thank you! I thank you for that! How do the sick and the disabled actually come to be told and kept by a Member of Parliament, by a federal politician, by a State Secretary? How do we get to it?! – This, Mr Leiner, is not Christian, so you will agree with me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That can't be Christian! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I speak here in the name of disabled people, in the name of people with special needs. And, Mr Feurstein, because I am talking to the disabled because I am listening to them, I am speaking here on their behalf. These are people who often need medical help than, for example, tough golfers who are healthy. These people with special needs have often punished you: The prescription fee has been increased dramatically, the day money in the hospital has been increased dramatically, the accident pensions have been taxed. The local health insurance fund can no longer pay the ticket for people who have to go to an ambulance, because it simply doesn't have the money anymore. And now there is another criminal tax, a penalty, as the Federal Minister has said today. You all know the special situation of disabled people, Dr. Feurstein, for example of wheelchair drivers. They are prevented from accessing medical practices. 85 percent of doctors are not disabled, you know. My own experiences can confirm that I only need to go through the doctor's practice in my immediate surroundings. Gynaecologist: impossible for disabled people to find access; two out of three practical doctors in my home place: impossible for disabled people; Dermatologist in the district city of Liezen: impossible for disabled people; Neurologists in Liezen: impossible for disabled people; X-ray specialist, ENT specialist, my dentist: the same. As a disabled woman, as a wheelchair driver, I could not enter all these practices. – And that’s how you deal with these people! Disabled people have no free choice of doctors – even today, they are already disadvantaged by this! And now you're depriving them a second and a third time by still ordering them ambulance fees. Explain They ask the disabled people why they now have to pay again, where they already have a lot of disadvantages. That's the way to the two-class medicine, and you know that very well. You want to meet a system, but you always meet people. Disabled people need ambulances because they are barrier-free because they can use a lift there because they can find help around the clock because they can enter at most every twelfth medical practice without barriers because they have no chance of free choice. They divide people into disabled and not disabled, in healthy and in sick. Explain You can't reach what you're supposed to do to a disabled person who wants to do in a doctor's practice and with his wheelchair! Does he have to ask passers-by to order him into practice? Does he have to be deprived of his dignity as a human being? With these measures you demand from disabled people! Take back this unsocial and unjust measure! Mrs Steibl, look at these examples and explain to me what you're saying to people!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5103	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5125	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make three comments at the beginning. First: The noise level on the part of the SPÖ to accompany the speech of Mr. Bundesminister's Head has exceeded some "joint music" on a football court. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, I am really surprised at the current disinterest, because now, by far, not all the SPÖ representatives are in the room, and about the sensitivity or the polemics that prevail here when a two-class society is spoken here. [[Abg. May. Plank: Give me an answer to my questions!]] That is simply not true, and you know that. You also know that if you are a wheelchair driver, you get a certain amount of care money to purchase transportation services, although I know what difficulties there are in this area. Thirdly, I wonder if the SPÖ pays for free posters in the plenary series of posters or whether the show of posters is free. Maybe you can give me an answer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Heindl: I like to pay for that!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Now, on this initiative proposal, which – and I would like to clarify this once because many young people are present – now also excludes children and members of an orphanage if they have no other income. This proposal seeks, among other things, to improve the efficiency of the Austrian health system with the necessary linkage of the established area and the hospital sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] What do the SPÖ and the Greens do – contrary to these concerns? [[Abg. May. Plank: demand justice!]] Refuse, simply be against, any reasonable financial recovery of our health system. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] On the other hand, we want to achieve a control effect from the ÖVP with the government partner with the ambulance contributions in order to achieve necessary resources, socially fair by the exceptions... – I have listened! [[Abg. Silhavy: Did you not listen to the committee today?]] And I did not bring about an hour's debate on the Rules of Procedure, but I listened carefully to what the experts say! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I repeat: Children, pregnant women, dialysis and cancer patients in particular are excluded. We want to create a system that will also increase the health insurance budget. Dr. Gleitsmann has put it to the fore in today's hearing: All health systems in the surrounding countries in Europe have these weaknesses, and all countries are involved in initiating a sustainable structural reform of health care. And Austria also has to deal with this issue, and we face this challenge and do something for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: You don't do anything for it...!]] We do a lot for this, for example: Currently, the health insurance budget is 140 billion schilling. Of these, 11 billion schillings are already being brought in by self-preservation, and this one billion is another step in bringing about justice in this area to strengthen our health system. [[Abg. Silhavy: Where is the structural reform?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking: Is the careful approach with further restraint of 1 billion schilling really as cruel as you always do? Or should we do what you want, an increase in contributions? – No, really not! I think that what we are planning is a lot more sensible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: This is not a structural reform!]] Or do you just want a bad situation in our health system? It looks like: The ambulance charges are spread on your taferls. We don't want that! We want a socially acceptable system with socially acceptable exceptions. This process creates a steering tool to ensure our good health system.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5290	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5311	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If you call your measures socially compatible, Mrs Steibl, and use two thirds of your speaking time to pool, I simply do not think so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Apart from the fact that Mr Westenthaler – he is there, he is great; perhaps we say "Mister minus 10 percent" to him in the future, because he seems to have lost a little of the orientation for what he says in terms of apprentices and ambulance fees – the ambulance charges today, just as you all, without considering whether you could happen to pans again, he does not listen to his social spokesperson Gaugg. The statements of Mr Gaugg's social spokesperson have already been given the best today. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I can assure you: Your hurry could be yours again today. Saving You got more pans! Saving She told the Austrian population that sickness should be punished! Saving It is your 200 million schilling big image campaign to inform people. You can't talk about social reduction anymore, ladies and gentlemen, people have recognized that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] "College minus 10 percent" would have to know quite well. But he doesn't know some things, as his claim proves – now I come to the topic of apprentices and ambulance fees again – once again the lie is brought over, lie propaganda. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Lying propaganda – these are not our words, ladies and gentlemen, these are the words of Mr Westenthaler from a five-pillar press release, in which the words "lying" and "lying propaganda" are found restlessly. He believes that Mr Kostelka is lying by saying that the apprentices are not affected by the ambulance fee. I can now tell him the truth, the opposite is the case. Ladies and gentlemen! While it is true that children and young people are now excluded from the ambulance fees, it appears that apprentices are other young people. It is also true that every insured person who wants to be freed from the prescription fee must make an application. If the apprentice lives – in the first year of teaching, apprentices earn between 5 000 S and a maximum of 7 000 S; this is already high at home anyway – then 12.5 percent of the family income for apprentice compensation are included. In these circumstances, of course, it is not so easy that the apprentices fall below this 8 400-S limit; therefore, they do not fall under the prescription fee exemption and not under the ambulance fee exemption at all. One thing to say is: In the third year of teaching, thanks to trade unions and Austrian social democracy, the situation is so good that the apprentices are well deserved and most of the time happy to get across this border. But they do not fall under the exemption from the ambulance fee again. They are fully met by the ambulance fee. Now, of course, the question arises: What does Mr Westenthaler care about the apprentices when he makes such an incredible press release? Either he does not want Austrian apprentices to have an adequate income at all, or he has too little to deal with the situation of young people, namely the situation of young people living in a professional life. You can choose the answer, Mr Westenthaler: minus 10 per cent in Simmering; people are informed. In any case, we are in favour of a humane social policy and therefore say no to the ambulance charges.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5392	Next speaker is Mrs Gatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5414	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The government is acting so fast because we do not want to fail to do so, we do not want legal uncertainty either, and that is why quick action is needed. And that's what the new government stands for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Another reason is certainly that the opposition sees it as its "primary duty" – under quotation marks – to insure the people. [[Abg. May. Plank: To be represented!]] I therefore believe that it is necessary today for us to take a decision so that this uncertainty, this unjustified injustice of people, is finally removed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The ambulance fee is not a health tax. We have also said in committee that there are great differences between taxes and taxes. As a Member of Parliament, we should know them. I would also like to say something about the comments made by the new chairman of the Committee, Mr Dietachmayr. - We were all totally surprised at this change. I say this as a woman, because we have very few female chairmen. The Committee has been a President of the Committee, and we were very surprised that this is not Mrs Silhavy, but Mr Dietachmayr. [[Abg. Grabner: But that's not your business!]] That's not my business. I also supported him, of course, and hopefully we will work together well. I regret it anyway, you will admit that to me. Mr Dietachmayr has made this very tendent. There have, of course, been very critical votes by experts, but I would like to say that, since I was in the House, for the first time I have found expressions from the experts, which I have not yet experienced in this House, I must say that. I believe that Members should vote in favour of a certain choice of words, but also experts who are available for information should respect a certain choice of words and not be insulting or very tendent, even if they are of a different opinion. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman, as well as the Abg. May. Plank.]] I would also like to highlight the positive statements made by the experts you did not make, Mr Dietachmayr. The experts have said that there are now clear, good and clear guidelines on emergencies. You have said that there is a control effect, a steering effect and, of course, a financial effect is associated with it. I think it would be insidious to say that this is not at all in our intention. But it was also said that this fee of 150 S or 250 S is really a fee with eye-size. And I think it is very important to add that the implementation is designed in such a way that there is no great red tape. Many previous speakers have already said how high the level of health in Austria is, and I think we must do everything we can to keep it that way. SPÖ speakers, for example the colleague Plank, have referred here to the length of stay of patients in hospitals. I can still remember that we said together, SPÖ and ÖVP, under SPÖ leadership and SPÖ ministry: We have to shorten the stay in hospitals, we have to reduce beds, we have to build barriers to get people out of the hospital, out of the ambulances, and move them into the extra-mural area. [[Abg. May. Plank: You do that, that's right!]] The difference between you and us is that we recognized this as correct at the time and continue to do so today. It is clear that no one is happy about this ambulance fee, but yet it is an important thing not to get this two-class society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to stress once again what Mr Bundesminister said: An ambulance visit in five years is the average attack in the ambulances, i.e. 250 p. [[Abg. Oillinger: But this is against the steering effect!]] From your side and also from Your colleague Sallmutter is repeatedly called for a contribution increase of up to one percent. Federal Minister Chief has predicted this to you with a contribution increase of 0.3 or 0.5 percent, and you have seen that this would have been thousands of amounts already in the smallest income range. [[Abg. Silhavy: How do you get together the billions that the Minister has also mentioned today?]] Still to the ambulances – Vienna is a good example again and again. The average ambulance case in Austria costs approximately 2 250 S, but in Vienna it costs 3 200 S. I believe that this is also an interesting thing when we discuss health and health policy. I understand the proposal made by your city councillor, Rieder, who already wanted to realize it. As a Christian Democrat, I call myself: We don't want a two-class company! But only if we, as Mr Stumbling has said, ask people to make a solidarity contribution in the small sector will we never get conditions like in Great Britain where older or poor people are excluded from large-scale benefits.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5537	Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5562	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, that is to say, those Members who are the only Members sitting here with a six-digit triple relation, have actually claimed that apprentices did not fall into the exemption of the ambulance and therefore would have to pay ambulance fees. [[Abg. Schwemlein: How about the four pensions from the Pumberger?]] – This is wrong! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: (a document holding high) Press release Westenthaler!]] I am actually correcting that, of course, all Austrians whose net monthly income is below 8 437 S are exempt from the prescription fee and are therefore automatically exempt from the ambulance fee. This, of course, also concerns the vast majority of all Austrian apprentices, who would only be burdened if you implement your contribution increases, which Mr Sallmutter calls for for the SPÖ. [[Abg. Bures: That's wrong!]] Then all apprentices would be equally burdened, and we reject that. It's unsocial!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5647	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5672	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! There is only confusion about the introduction of ambulance charges. In a night and fog action, the black and blue government intends to introduce ambulance charges with further deterioration. There are many open questions, but no answers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What, for example, is it, Mr Federal Minister, if a high-pregnant woman gets a lot of pain at night and goes into the ambulance? – Does this woman have to pay ambulance fees? [[Abg. Steibl: Except!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or: Someone's got a blind-intestinal breakthrough and is immediately recorded in a hospital. In order to remove the seams from the operation, he is ordered back to the ambulance a week later. – Does he have to pay 250 S or 150 S? [[Abg. This is embarrassing!]] Mr. Federal Minister, I could continue the list. [[Call out to the liberals:Poverty! Painful!]] These ambulance charges are socially unfair. They violate the solidarity health system, but above all they meet the sick, the beneficiaries of small incomes, and especially the older generation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! On Saturday there was a government summit in Carinthia. The ORF gave an opinion from the head of the state of Carinthia, in which he said that one had to make politics again for the "little man". – I would be interested now: According to what criteria is the "little man" assessed? – After the height of the body, after the origin or after the income? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: You have not read the application!]] According to the latter, it certainly is not because otherwise the head of the Carinthian would not have signed these measures. In her opinion, Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer, after this reform summit, also said that the introduction of ambulance charges was a serious mistake. Member Gaugg, the spokesperson of the FPÖ, was also quoted in the media: "The limit of the availability for the population is reached." Ladies and gentlemen of the Black and Blue Government! You can't sell people for stupid by making politics in your own ranks depending on the weather. But they make politics without regard to the so-called little man, who is very often a woman. Ladies and gentlemen! In her opinion on Saturday, Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer also said: Politics must be felt again. – If you introduce the ambulance charges today, people will know what is meant by "perceptible policy", namely to tax, tax and tax again, without if and but. This law contains extremely bureaucratic regulations. The effort for the collection will be higher than the financial success, and this at the expense of the sick and small income recipients. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is the only effect achieved with the introduction of the ambulance fee.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5776	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5800	Mr President. High house! Apart from the ambulance charges, which I am about to make my correction, Mr Westenthaler has put into play another thing that needs to be corrected. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Speech!]] He claimed that I was involving a three-digit, a six-digit, what I know, amount. – That’s wrong! Check it out! That's wrong! Secondly, you have claimed that apprentices are not affected by the ambulance fee. – That is also incorrect. [[Prolonged calls.]] 98 percent of the apprentices in Vienna are affected by this because 12.5 percent of the family income is included. Maybe the apprentices can then send you the prescriptions for the ambulance fees.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5842	I would just like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not simply enough to establish that a claim is wrong or incorrect, but that it is the case to be corrected. It's not done! The next speaker is Mr Grabner. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: To the Rules of Procedure!]] On the Rules of Procedure: Mr Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5875	Mr President. High house! We have today become witnesses of a novum in this house: This was an actual correction to an actual correction! And I wonder, Mr President, where this is in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5899	Deputies! In principle, you are right, but when you log in an actual correction, you cannot yet see what this actual correction is for. In this respect, it must be approved by the Bureau. It only turns out in retrospect whether it was properly handled or not. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is no actual correction to an actual correction!]] The actual correction has certainly not had the right content in two cases, either in the matter raised by you or also in the way in which it is implemented. In the second case, we can argue. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If she does not refer, you must interrupt her! You shouldn't have let that happen!]] Next, Mr Kostelka spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5942	Mr President. In this context, it should be noted that Mrs Heinisch-Hosek wanted to make a personal response within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. This has not been approved by you – not quite comprehensible to me. For this reason, it has been instructed by the Bureau to make a further actual correction. This one she left. I therefore do not think it entirely in the sense of the Rules of Procedure if this is now criticized.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e5974	It is true that I have pointed out that personal response is not possible, because it has not occurred in the corrected case and therefore has no right to a personal response. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Why?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He mentioned them by name!]] I can only say one thing: Unfortunately, the instrument of actual correction and the personal response of very many Members of the House is not needed. I've allowed myself to point this out a few times. I have therefore asked Parliament's Directorate to draw up a paper dealing with this instrument. This is the premise. It has been made available to the clubs. I have already pointed out at the last meeting that I am looking for it to be brought to the attention of the individual members of the House, otherwise these instruments will continue to be mistreated in the future. I would ask you to do that accordingly. The next speaker is Mr Grabner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6017	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The discussions already show how important this matter is for the Austrian population. The Constitutional Court annulled the Ambulance Fees Regulation for a formal error. He has not even been concerned about the content of the law. We will go back to the Constitutional Court, and I can tell you today: You're gonna make a belly stain again. This law will be repealed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Vice-Chancellor meant that the pace would have to be a little throttled. – Especially in this law, we have seen that the pace was not threatened, but one has done much faster in these matters. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who wrote this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the following has been said very often – I quote –: "The ambulance fee punishes patients twice: Financially and with long waiting times with the established specialist doctors. It is a non-social and therefore a further failure of the health policy of this government. – That said no social democrat, but the Vice-President of the Chamber of Workers Vienna, and that is an ÖAPB, gentlemen of the ÖAAB. In football one would say: The best football player, if he shoots his own incessantly, is very bad for the team because he's not a man. How did your social expert mean? – In the "Kronen Zeitung" it was said: "... FPÖ social spokesperson Reinhart Gaugg moved yesterday against the ambulance fee and against Minister of Finance Grasser from the leather." – So this Minister of Finance always shoots its own doors. He is not so "chied" at all, Mr. Gaugg, that he must hide his face, but apparently he hides it from the politics of this government. [[The speaker refers to an image in the "Kurier"]] Federal Minister! That's what a man from Carinthia said from your own ranks. Another quote from the "Kronen Zeitung": "The black and blue government policy would be too 'technocratic', not intended for the little man in the saving course, etc. Minister of Finance Grasser" – you can hear it calmly, you do not take seriously what this matter means to the population – "have done false weightings" and the government "put foolish ads" which cost 100 million schillings. That's what your country captain of Carinthia, ladies and gentlemen said. You could go on with that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as the disabled are concerned, today an expert has said: Many people can only visit ambulances because the doctor's practices are not properly equipped.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6077	The next speaker is Mr Nürnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6098	Mr President. Representatives of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In the sense of Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who has spoken very objectively and soberly, I shall try to make an account here. If they are wrong, you should have objections, I am very happy to be at your disposal for discussions. It is undisputed that a steering effect should be achieved with the introduction of the ambulance fee, from the ambulances to the doctors. This has also been noted by the representatives of the medical profession in the hearing. Let me explain to you on the example of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, which means this measure, which is decided today, for the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. This year, in 2001, we have an end of 1.4 billion schilling. If it goes well, we will also have an end of 1.4 billion next year. I recognize that there is still a way to save something in the administration. You won't hear from me that I'm saying: In the administration I can no longer save!, but it is small things, because we have already saved a lot. Last year, the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse had 1,566 million cases concerning the question of the collection of ambulance fees. 21 percent of these cases went into the ambulance without a transfer. If these 21 percent insured people want to pay instead of 250 only 150 s, they have to go to the practical doctor. The practical doctor issues a transfer note and cashes the case rate of 280 S. This represents 92 million schilling for this 21 percent of insured persons. Now to the situation Switch from the ambulances to the specialist doctors. We've paid an invoice of 5 to 40 percent. What is the cost of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse when you go to the specialist's office instead of the ambulance? The break-even point of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse is approximately 16 to 17 percent. The fee, which must be paid in addition for the specialist doctors, is approximately 196 million schilling. I can count this up, but do not do it like the Minister of State, who has expected three, four, five, ten years. I'm just telling you the number: If, on the basis of these controls, only 40 percent go to the practical doctor, we are at 393 million schilling. Now we add the two numbers: 393 million more fees and 92 million transfers make 485 million. The estimated revenue of the Vienna regional health fund is 192 million. That is to say, we have a deficit or additional benefits to pay to doctors' fees of 300 million schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! Now one could accept this if, in return, one had to transfer less to the hospital hospitals what one paid more to the specialist doctors. This is not possible, however, because the amount of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse is covered by 8 billion. In other words, the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse must pay twice. We don't save ourselves any schilling. We pay 8 billion to hospitals, but have to take note of a 300 million minus. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now the administrative cost contribution, which is up to 6.5 per cent covered. Either make you aware of this to be able to say afterwards: The health insurance fund doesn't come out with 6.5 percent, or you don't know where your trust lock is going. The entire Vienna regional health fund – which applies to every insurance – has total revenue and total expenditure. That's where I got the total income of 1.1 million insured. There is no administrative burden for some 600 000 to 700 000 insured persons because they are not entitled to benefits. But there is, of course, an administrative burden in the context of the offsetting of total revenue and total expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no insurance, neither full cash nor household insurance, which must be calculated separately. It doesn't matter if an ambulance fee is charged or millions, the administrative burden may be up to 6.5 percent for each single ambulance fee. Now I take a mixing set between 250 and 150 S and come on about 180 S. It's already gotten high anyway. 6.5 percent of these are 11.70 p. So 11.70 S is available for the administrative burden for each case of ambulance. But you have to bill each one individually. 7 S costs a postage stamp. I don't expect the other manipulation. What happens to the recording, to the collection, to the warning? If someone doesn't pay, you have to try court proceedings before the Labour and Social Courts. This is free of charge for the insured. Please tell me what the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse and everyone else should do if they do not reach 6.5 per cent per year. And they cannot come out, because in each case there is an administrative burden, for which only 11.70 S are available for each individual case. Ladies and gentlemen! That can't work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You said: We need the money for the expansion. – D’accord. But what money do you want from the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse? If the steering effect occurs, we have to pay 300 million Schilling more doctors' fees at 1.4 billion deficit. That is, you decide on a fee – I don't use the term "tax" now – where the costs are more than left under the rule. It can't be! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, so that there is no discussion, whether or not corrective or not, I am speaking, about apprentices. Mr Westenthaler! If you're a man with character, I'll make you an offer now, and the offer is valid. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: All who are under 8 400 S,...!]] What you say is wrong. And take note of why it's not true. But if you're convinced that's true, then you can say: Topp, the bet is valid! 99 percent of the apprentices live in the family association and do not have their own household. In this case, 12.5 percent of family income for apprentice compensation is included. In the event that mother and father are only trained workers, they have 30 000 p. 12.5 percent each other, and in this case the son will not receive any exemption from the ambulance fee. Take the bet! Every apprentice who has to pay an ambulance fee is to send the invoice to you or to the FPÖ club, and you pay it. That's easy, Mr. Westenthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6170	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6193	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Nürnberger, from the point of view of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, you have taken an account of the sickness charges. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the meeting of the Committee, which took place before this plenary session, Members of your group discussed the report of the Wiener Gebietskrankenkasse, where a total of 90 million schillings were thrown out for the whole year 2001 on page 33 of the report of the Viennaer Gebietskrankenkasse. This is based on the legal basis of 2001, at the time of the review, where the 1. ==References== In December 2001, the removal fees were abolished. I can clearly tell you that the official figures of the Vienna County Hospital, which have also been signed by you, and also those of the officials of my house, who are on the table here, are diametrically different from those you have presented here from the speaker's desk. [[Call the ÖVP: That's how it looks!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, If I were to take your calculations as the basis for the income to be recovered from the ambulance fees of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse in 2002, I think the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse could still record a net profit of 360 million Schilling, which would clearly and clearly represent an improvement in the financial situation of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. Mr. Nürnberger! Mrs Mag. Plank! Mrs Mag. Prammer! Ladies and gentlemen! The social dimension of today's decision and the regulations in this area have been discussed several times, including by the Green Group. Mr Nürnberger, I should like to point out to you – and you have also confirmed this – that there would be a lot to save in the administration. This "White Paper", which was commissioned by President Sallmutter – who kindly congratulated Mr Gaugg on his recovery today – is if I have been properly informed, without sufficient decisions from the Bureau of the main association. This paper, which I am in the process of checking, shows: Improvement potential for computer costs: 881 million schilling, 64 million j per anno. It also says in this "White Paper": Administrative staff: 45 percent of savings potential. According to "White Paper" by President Sallmutter, this makes a savings potential of 6,137 billion schilling, around 446 million ye per anno. – I doubt some figures in this "White Paper" by Mr. Sallmutter, but: The experts and the employees of Mrs Hostasch, who have developed this paper, will probably not be so wrong. Mr Nürnberger! That's where I mean it's supposed to be. And so I say to you: If you really want to have a social policy for the contributors in the Austrian health system, you should at last contribute in the administrative field to those savings which the main association of the Austrian social security funds considers to be attainable, publish in this "White Paper". In Austria, health insurance and, above all, sick people could be provided better help, in the event of constant contributions. This is the aim of the Federal Government and, as I hope, the majority of Members here in the House. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Since you mentioned the "social dimension" here from the SPÖ: Ambulance fees are, of course, painful for one or other person who has to pay them – and often also painful because they are unusual, but they have a steering effect. However, on the part of our Federal Government, it is planned to exclude the beneficiaries of the smallest income from the ambulance fee. – Mr Sallmutter and his people, on the other hand, had the intention of burdening these income stakeholders too, with their proposal for a general increase in contribution of 0.3 and 0.5 percent respectively. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it!]] We do not burden the poorest in our Republic with the ambulance charges! Mr. Nürnberger! However, when you realize your model, these would be very much burdened! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] All of this is understandable, because your demands, your statements have always stated: 0.3 percent and 0.5% of contribution increases for all! Nothing else you said! This should not be forgotten either! Ladies and gentlemen! As there were also arguments regarding wheelchair drivers: It is not known to me that the ASVG in its current form would have included a single regulation with regard to exceptions for wheelchair drivers. – But through us there will be exceptions for social weakness! And I believe that it is especially important in this context to allow wheelchair drivers to have proper access in the extra-mural area, so that they can visit doctors independently – and this, as far as possible, without great use of disabled transport and resulting costs. However, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, have the burden and responsibility to bear that you have not implemented this knowledge of the 1997 Constitutional Court. This would have made it possible to create practical communities on the ground, so to speak, so that disabled people in our Republic would have been able to visit such institutions independently, even on the basis of better conditions of access, almost around the clock, and also on weekends, on Saturdays and Sundays – things which the Federal Government has included in its programme and has defined as a requirement for extra-mural care. Ladies and gentlemen! You see, therefore, that we have a great need for action in the health system because of all these failures. At any rate, I believe that the introduction of ambulance charges in Austria must also be seen in the international context. And if you do, it is also noticeable that in many countries governed by social democrats – but in Austria it was different under the rule of the SPÖ – there is very much self-esteem, often to a large extent. They have claimed from SPÖ that social democrats have never stood up for self-preservation. – That’s really not true! In this context, for example, I mention only the model country of social democracy, namely Sweden. In Sweden, in emergency treatments in every patient, with no exception, 260 crowns are withdrawn as a restraint – in Schilling: Multiplication with 1.70. In addition, in Sweden, 100 crowns are charged for each first visit to an ambulance in 200 crowns and every further visit. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Similar rules exist in Finland, Ireland, Belgium or France, as well as in a number of other countries in the case of stationary care, for example in Germany. I am also saying, ladies and gentlemen, that we in Austria should not defuse the resulting steering effects – which has been introduced for good reason in all these countries. That would happen against better knowledge, for you, mys. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, you know this very well, even on the basis of the exchange of experience, which you maintain with other social democratic parties in Europe. High house! Of course, it will be necessary to actually implement all those things that have been referred to as priority in the discussion about our health system today: more care, around the clock and directly on the spot, especially in the settled area, so that the ambulances are not so overfrequent. Furthermore: more on-site medical care through specialists, better quality of medical care, covering the whole range from Lake Neusiedler to Lake Constance, appropriate quality as well as the provision of services. However, I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this Federal Government has adopted a social security system, a health system "inherited", in which there are a number of shortcomings particularly in the extramural field. But you also have to say quite clearly: The relocation and improvement of the extramural sector in the previous Federal Government does not have our government partner Austria's People's Party was prevented, but it was the representatives of the Chamber of Workers and the main association who, for ideological reasons, always sought to prevent this. You only need to look at all the really clear statements from the past! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I therefore find it more than surprising that the SPÖ, which you are fully responsible for these abuses, blames us for the FPÖ/ÖVP government! In any case, we from this Federal Government do not think in the worst of all about doing it the way you do about the SPÖ: to address necessary reforms – but in the end do not implement them. We will accept those things that are rightly called in need of reform in our health system, and we will solve these problems. In the past, it has already been pointed out that reforms in the Austrian health system are very simple, precisely through two – by the way: expensive – studies: first through the Hausemann study and second through the KPMG study. In my opinion, all these things were put on the table at the time, yes, direction-setting. However, they have been missed by SPÖ any consequence in terms of implementation. – In this context, the computer is really only an example of many. And since your formal statement from SPÖ does not benefit you, either, that the Hausemann study has already been implemented to 90 percent. – I can only say: the volume of paper, the volume of material no!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6315	Before we come to the actual correction of Mr Nuremberger, I would like to point out once again the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Section 58 para. 2 GOG reads: "An actual correction shall begin with the reproduction of the claim to be corrected and shall be compared to the corrected case." – In addition, I would like to inform you of what has been said on the part of Parliament’s management: [[Abg. Grabner: But you didn't tell the Westenthaler!]] It is not possible to correct any claim, but the privilege of giving words to an actual correction is based on the fact that an incorrect statement of fact can be corrected without delay. And on top of that: What should not be the actual correction is a contribution to the discussion, in which a different opinion on a speaker is simply expressed. Furthermore, actual corrections are not allowed when it comes to not facts, but to opinions or opinions – in brackets: political valuations. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction SPÖ) You should write this ten times!]] I would like to inform you of this, and I would ask all the Members who are speaking in favour of an actual correction to take account of it. Please, Mr Nürnberger, you are in line with an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6404	Mr President, thank you very much for this detailed instruction. First of all, I'm correcting: Mr. Federal Minister Main has claimed that this "White Paper" tribe of President Sallmutter. – This is not right! President Sallmutter has no such paper; at best it can be one of a computer company. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] I'm correcting the second thing: Mr Bundesminister Haupt has claimed that the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse will make profits through the ambulance fee. – That's wrong! I said: Due to the changeover to contractual doctors and the fact that someone gets a health certificate, a transfer certificate, the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse has more expenses of 485 million Schilling. In addition to the revenue of 200 million schilling, there is a minus of 285 million schilling left. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is an opinion, but no actual correction!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm correcting third: What you said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, about a contribution increase of 0.3 per cent is incorrect! It is true that for a monthly reference of 13 000 S 546 S per year. And if you calculate this for the year: four times the ambulance fee, four times 250 S are 1 000 S. – So our model will be cheaper. But, Minister of State, as in the case of...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6458	Mr President, I may not be wrong to have the provisions relating to § 58 para. 2 GOG read. - Thank you. [[In the case of the SPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Nürnberger.]] The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6504	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Grabner is sending to leave the meeting room.]] Mr. Arnold Grabner, the SPÖ's sports spokesperson, will stay there a little bit, because I would like to speak to you briefly. [[Call to the liberals:Ha, ha, ha!]] You tried football today, and that's why I'd like to tell you: There are famous sayings of famous football players, held in a collection. Among other things, Manfred Krafft once said, who should not be unknown to you: "My team has run off 15 or 16 times. That's what we've been practicing all week." – That is how you have acted today, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Arnold Grabner, "Non-playing-Captain", we then look at this "White Paper" that Mr. Nuremberger does not know! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Federal Minister Chief has put the facts on your table, supported them with figures, and told you what was the matter. However, ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised by the united left, especially by the Social Democracy, with what coldness You make the impossible attempt to break free from your own – admittedly bad – past. But we will not allow that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why we will not allow this to happen, Mr Nürnberger, because the invoices you have been trying to open correspond exactly to those invoices you have been trying to show us about the "consumer"! [[Abg. Nuremberg: Unfortunately, vote!]] And we want to give up such accounting, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Please don't forget the SPÖ-Parteikassa!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] That would be just as if you were going to turn a concurror into a mass administrator, ladies and gentlemen! We will not allow that in health policy either. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] These "Raubersg" layers you've been trying to see us from the SPÖ today, don't believe you! Let's have a look at the past! [[Abg. Oils: Yes, yours!]] You have this coalition government, you have left this reform government, 1 million people in Austria at the poverty line! And to push this poverty line down, that is the goal of this federal government. [[Abg. May. With the ambulance charges?]] With your policy you've been "creating" by the SPÖ, doing everything to the citizens! – On the other hand, we from the coalition parties want to do something good for the Austrians! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, especially with the ambulance fee!]] For example, the general increase in contribution required by you would also affect apprentices if the additional wage costs were to increase, would endanger the economic location of Austria. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] And because this German government is giving hope for the future, for example, a large international group has decided to relocate its entire production to Vienna! You should also be pleased to see this, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ – and you should therefore not try to make Austrian health policy bad all the time! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] 4 billion schillings have Take away from the SPÖ with your two load packages the disabled in Austria! It's also written to you in the main book! Now to Mr Gusenbauer's comments, who has today tried to raise the issue of high parliamentaryism. It's all too fast, Gusenbauer said. And on top of that: Parliamentaryism would, as it were, be turned under the carpet. I remember very well – I have been here in the house for a long time, but that's why I don't forget –: [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: The first is true, the second I can't confirm!]] When it was a matter of bringing about a proper law on the stage, a committee meeting had to be interrupted several times at that time, until the faxes from the Chamber of Workers were here flattered. When the fax machine gave up the spirit, we had to wait another hour. And then when this whole thing finally seemed to be done, the signatures of the socialist Members were quickly shrilled on it. Then: In the height with your hands – and with that the vote was done. – That’s how your policies have been in the past! In any case, we're not going along with this! Therefore, the accusation of you goes from the SPÖ, here Husch-Puff-laws would be made, completely empty. – You have to measure your past! [[turn towards SPÖ]] And that's bad enough! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This bad spectacle you've performed here from the SPÖ is also a real community towards those people...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6708	Mr President, there have now been some expressions which are not appropriate to the dignity of this House. I would ask you to take this into account in the further remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6726	Mr President, I do not intend to criticize you, but the word 'pleasure' is not to be regarded as bad in popular use. But if you, Mr President, think it is too delicate, I say: I didn't really mean "pleasure," and I'm not going to use the word "pleasure" from this speaker's desk today. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria we have an excellent health system, which has already been addressed several times today. The doctors, the nursing staff, make excellent contributions from the Austrians – large modo – are also managed in the appropriate form. But the game of Mr Sallmutter and Mr Bittner is not going to take place by the government parties, ladies and gentlemen. If the back of doctors, the care staff and the contributors of party-political small money are tried to beat, then we will put all those who do so in the barriers, not only here from the speaker's desk, but also in discussions with the population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It also means quite a horrificly settled doctors when you try to make bad of their activity, which they often do around the clock, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Indeed, this profession has not deserved it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you are now trying to play these people to the black Peter, then it is immense, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the SPÖ:No, the blue!]] And on top of that: Those who do not help us to keep our health system financially will also be blamed for those people who need as much health protection as they need, but not in large cities, who do not live in agglomerations. Where were you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ when it came to improving the health system in the country? It has already been said several times today: They of the SPÖ fought wildly against the Community practices at the time; You have prevented additional specialist practices from being created in the flat country! As far as health policy is concerned, you have failed everywhere, Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why it means living solidarity if we decide today on a solution that will improve and expand our health system. – This policy of the burned earth, as you are being run here today by you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, is not a policy with heart! Therefore: Leave the hearts out of the game, leave Get over this to the doctors, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] A policy of how you pursue it is bloodless. And whoever has no blood is not credible either! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Finally, a small cast builder "Moritat", Mr. Comrade Party Chairman. Last weekend, the Salzburg Socialist Party Day went over the stage, and there was an article in my hands, an article of the "Salzburger Nachrichten" of today in which an unknown journalist – I quote – writes: [[Abg. Oils: That something falls into your hands!]] "First he comes late: SPÖ Chief Alfred Gusenbauer. Then, at the Triumph party of Gabi Burgstaller, he goes past without a trace." [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer makes the so-called window wiper movement in the direction of the speaker.]] Furthermore, this article reads as follows: "Gusenbauer can be found in the fabric chair next to Frau Buchleitner. She'll give him a little attention. From then on, the general disregard for the guest from Vienna reigns." It then continues as follows: "The lunch break before his appearance, Gusenbauer distributes more or less with himself or his cell phone. Hardly anyone speaks to him, even at the overcrowded bar, he stays alone when he orders a little beer. From the pants bag, he picks up a loose bundle of cash notes, one, two thousand, a few hundred. He's paid. No one's inviting him. He stays alone with himself and his silk. Then he fishes a galloise from the blue cardboard box..." [[Call the Greens: on the matter!]] parentheses: so he also stops with the French smokeworks, not only in champagne with French goods; Closed parentheses – that was a contribution from me...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6852	Deputies! We're at the ambulance charges, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6873	I quote: "He," that is, Gusenbauer, "is going to a corner..." – probably he's thinking about the ambulance fee, ladies and gentlemen! . I hope that I have complied with your request, Mr President. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] "Then again, Gusi, alone at the party day": alone with the ambulance fee, alone with himself. - Hopefully he'll stay healthy. We wish you a healthy cast farmer! Ladies and gentlemen! But in the meantime, many are thinking about the ambulance fee. Zilk, for example, thinks about another top candidate: He's calling for Häupl. We wish ourselves both: A double mill is all right for us. We in the province, as the Vienneses say, can also expect a head in the next election. Ladies and gentlemen! Good luck! We're on the right track. Whether you're still -- "Gusi" mother souls alone? - We'll see.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6923	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e6944	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have discussed a lot about health care in Austria, and I am pleased that many have repeatedly pointed this out: [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign]] Yes, we have a good health care in Austria! I am pleased about this, but one point was very crucial in this context, ladies and gentlemen, namely: I don't know any health minister of the last 20 years who wouldn't have always pointed out that we should try to get patients out of the hospitals and strengthen the care of doctors and practical doctors. This is a steering effect that we absolutely need in health policy: to strengthen the practical doctors and to strengthen the specialists. Today, when dealing with this issue in the Committee, this point has been very clearly and clearly underlined by the medical chamber representatives: Out of the ambulances and to the specialists and practical doctors! It is not true when the SPÖ argues that this objective has not been achieved earlier. – I think that is a very important goal of our health policy, and it should remain in this form, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Second point: Mr Haigermoser! The ÖGB's proposal to finance the ambulances is quite different from what Mr Nürnberger has said here. The SPÖ does not just require a general increase in the contribution. The former president of the main association, secretary Leutner, will bring a new financing alternative for the ambulance fees – I will read to you what he has sent today at lunchtime –: "If alternatives are sought in the finance area, then it is easy to find." One could increase "employer contributions to health insurance for workers by 0.3 percent", which would also provide "the same amount of 1 billion schilling". Ladies and gentlemen! They want to finance ambulances with employers' contributions to the workers, i.e. increase the cost of wages for the workers! Is that social? Is this job-friendly? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No!]] . I clearly say no to this proposal, Mr President Ververtnich and Mr Nürnberger. We cannot solve this problem at the expense of the workers, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I find it unheard of to make such a proposal to raise additional labour costs! – It is certainly not smart, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and the ÖGB. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would also like to ask the question: So far, was it just that a person who went to a practical doctor or a specialist had to pay 50 s and more for a health certificate fee, whereas the person who went to the ambulance didn't pay any contribution? Was that socially just? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No, that was not socially just!]] Why did you introduce this, ladies and gentlemen? Where does this proposal come from? Why was it done that way at the time? At the time, in 1996 or 1997, why did one not accept the proposal, which was generally represented by all, namely to introduce treatment fees? - We got it from Mrs Mag. Prammer belongs to: Rieder had also proposed to introduce treatment fees. [[Abg. Silhavy: Take care of your responsibility! Don't push it to the past!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, another last point [[Abg. Silhavy: Stand for your responsibility!]] The measure we are now taking, Mrs Silhavy, is socially just. It protects socially weak, and in particular protects pregnant women – in general. Mrs Bauer, you have not read what the request actually says: All benefits from the maternity insurance case are completely exempt from the ambulance fee! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the case of maternity benefits, no sickness allowance shall be charged, no treatment fee shall be charged. – At this point too, you are now trying to put wrong things back into the room. They question everything: You want to delete the treatment contribution in general – including the farmers, also in the trade, where it has been introduced with your consent. You want to reverse the requirements for unemployment insurance, which we have long considered and discussed with you. They want people to continue to be able to cross the pension at 55 and 57 years of age. The Green Members want to introduce a minimum income for all. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you realize that under these conditions, in such a policy, not only our health system, but also our social system would collapse? . I consider this measure, which is socially balanced, which protects and preserves the socially weak, to be justified, also in the sense of the previous discussions that we have led to on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e7054	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e7075	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, to the parliamentary procedure. It has previously been criticised that even the former red and black German government would often have brought into the house an attack-like law, not allowed proper review and presented extensive amendments only to the Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Two pieces!]] – Yes, that is true, but it is a novum that government parties themselves use a classic opposition instrument, namely, the deadline request – that is embarrassing enough, otherwise they would have every opportunity to correct their own poll – that they would obviously not be able to comply with this deadline and that on Friday the government party club members would then issue the instructions to their representatives on the Committee, that there should not be a committee report. This is a capitulation of parliamentarism and the kneefall in front of the government! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It seems that it is no longer about "speed kills", but it is about the fact that there is no longer any debate in this House at all. A good recommendation to the ladies and gentlemen of Blue-Black might be: If you make retroactive deadlines, then there are no more committee deliberations at all, and then you can always bring everything into the house in this "Ambulance Tour"! Secondly, Especially with the liberal political group or with its top representatives, I first heard verbally a little bit of intertwinedness from the statements after the election in Vienna. Also yesterday at Television was there to hear in a quite memorable debate, you don't want to put on enemy images anymore, no, you want to sell your own strengths and your own achievements better, better bring to the "small people". I have seen very little of this in this debate. We know very well now that Members of the Gusenbauer have sometime drunk champagne. And with regard to possible requests from the Socialist or the Green Group – the lack of a majority in this House – we now know how terrible they would be. Just, ladies and gentlemen: The apprentices, the chronically ill, who will now have to pay the ambulance fees, will be pretty no matter when and where who drank champagne, but they will have to grab deep into the wallet. That's the scandal! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, on the contents: Steering effects you want, ladies and gentlemen. It should be noted that: Whenever you start to steer, it goes towards education and social reduction. The reason is always the same: Because the kindergartens cost something, the universities also have to cost something – instead of finally releasing both! Because certain professional groups have already been self-serving, all of them must now be self-serving. That is to say, in the social field, the steering is always going towards decommissioning. Ladies and gentlemen! I haven't heard from you yet that you are about to seek a steering direction towards a peace order that: You, for example, collect a interception contribution, a "panzer schilling" or the like. No, it is always against the social sector, it is always against the education sector! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: on the matter!]] In the direction of ecological steering you have had nothing to expect anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! They leave the "little people" the choice between plague and cholera, and that's a bad choice in health policy anyway!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e7141	Mr Mag, Federal Minister, spoke next time. Chief. – In view of the time agreed in the Presidency, the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs waives his speech. [[Federal Minister Mag. The main expression is that he abandons his word.]] The next speaker is Mr Deputy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e7171	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I try to deal with the arguments that others put on the table in my activity. Today we have heard several times that in reality the ambulance fee is only introduced to achieve a steering effect. It's "vibration effect"! To bring customers from one production facility to another is the foreign exchange. I asked President Maderthaner, who understands far more from the economy than I am – for I am only a trade unionist – how it would actually be if there were problems in the economy in some area: whether a law has to be passed here, for example, that only one product of a particular company can be bought, because otherwise the steering effect cannot be achieved. Ladies and gentlemen! Say it clearly and clearly: If the private doctors were so good, why do people go to the ambulances? Explain this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We will tell all doctors!]] Is it not a fact – and examples of this have been brought today both in the Committee and here in the debate – that in some areas of treatment there is no practical practice at weekends? Doctor is available and is automatically transferred to the ambulance? So when we talk about a reorganisation of the health system and actually integrate the practical doctors who do excellent work into this system, why do we make a penalty tax? The product would speak for itself! I know enough people who don't visit an ambulance, but are best treated by their practical doctor. What you are doing is to be congratulated, to allocate, although you cannot offer an alternative, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You want to increase the contributions, Mr Vergestnitsch! Be honest and say that you want to increase the contributions!]] Mr Feurstein, if you are already quoting, then quote it completely. Mr Leutner pointed out that there would be an opportunity to increase contributions by 0.3%, but at the same time to reduce contributions to unemployment insurance and not to make the levy as much as you really plan. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That doesn't cost the individual anything – take note of that! But it fits in with your line, as it came out clearly yesterday in the programme 'Subject': Critics "to lay the craftsmanship", to make critics mouth dead. You may only have yes-sagers, and if they don't say yes, they're going to get sick, like Deputies Ofner! Sorry! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP in view of the Abg. present in his place. Dr. Ofner.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Ofner is here!]] I don't mean you, I mean your colleagues sitting in front of you!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e7263	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now come to a number of votes. First of all, we have to vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on Amendment No 412/A by Mr Pumberger, Mr Rasinger and Mr Comrades. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a referral tabled by Members of the European Parliament to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, in order to give a sign of approval. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law contained in Amendment 412/A by Dr Pumberger, Dr Rasinger and Comrades. To this end, MEPs have tabled an amendment to Dr Gusenbauer and Comrades. Mr Pumberger, Mr Rasinger and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Dr. Rasinger and Dr. Pumberger. Finally, there are two out of 20 Members who have signed a request for a roll call vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the amendments mentioned or the request for a separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment to Article 1. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must also be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The polls that can be used can be found in the store. They have the term "yes" – these are the grey polls – or "no" – which are the pink ones. Only official votes can be used for this vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of Rule 1 as amended by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades' amendment, to vote 'Yes', those who are opposed to putting 'No' vote in the mood. I now ask Mr Schreiber, Member of the Commission. Schweitzer to start with the name call. Mrs Sophie Bauer will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e7368	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 16.04 a.m. and resumed at 16.08 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e7400	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take the seats! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote as follows: There were 174 votes, 75 "Yes" and 99 "No" votes. [[By way of derogation from the announcement of the vote by President Dr. Fischer, the actual vote result is as follows: votes cast: 173; of which "Yes" votes: 74, "No": 99.]] The amendment tabled by Dr Gusenbauer and Comrades to Rule 1 is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure shall keep the names of the Members as always in the Stenographical Protocol. With "Yes", the Members voted: Antoni; Bauer Hannes, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brix, Brosz, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dobnigg; Eder, nobler, nobler, one; Faul, fisherman; Gartlehner, Gaßner, Grabner, Gradwelt, Grünewald, Gusenbauer; Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heinisch-Hosek, Heindl, Heinzl, Hlavac, Huber; Jäger, Jarolim; Chapels, dolls, kiermaier, kogler, kostelka, herbs, cubits, sorrowers, kuntzl; Leikam, Lichtenberger, Lunacek; Maier, Mertel, Moser, Muttonen; Niederwieser, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Petrovic, Pepper, Pirklhuber, Plank, Posch, Prehauser, Prammer; Rada, Reheis, Riepl; Shashing, boar, silhavy, sima, stoisits; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wicker, Wittmann, Worm. With 'No', the Members voted: Agatz, Auer; Bauer Rosemarie, Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Böhacker, Bösch, Brinek, Bruckmann, Brugger, Burket; Dolinschek, Donabauer; Egghart, Ellmauer; Valent, Fassleven, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, Freigaßner, Friend, Frieser; Gahr, Gatterer, Count Herbert L., Count Martin, Grollitsch, Großruck; Haigermoser, Hakl, Haller, Hartinger, Hetzl, Hofmann, Horneger, Hornek; Young; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, Knerzl, Koßl, Krüger, Kukacka, Kurzmann; Leinner, Lentsch, Lexer, Loos; Maderthaner, Mainoni, Miedl, Mikl- Leitner, Mitterlehner, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neudeck; Of which: Papházy, Partik-Pablé, Pecher, Pistotnig, Prince, Princehorn, Pumberger, Puttinger; Rasinger, Reindl; Scheucher, Scheuch, Schoettel-Delacher, Schultes, Schwarzenberger, Schweisgut, Schweitzer, Sevignani, Sodian, Spindelegger, Stadler, Staffaneller, Steibl, Stummful; Tancsits, trattners, drinkers; Wattaul, Weinmeier, Wenitsch, Westenthaler, Wachsländer, Wolfmayr; Zelot, Zernatto, Zierler, Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e7585	We shall continue with the votes. Deputies Dr. Pumberger, Dr. Rasinger and Comrades have tabled an amendment to Article 1 Z 2 § 135a para. 2 Z 1, 2 and 5. I would ask those members of the House who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You are against the exception!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Next we come to the separate vote on Rule 1 Z 2 § 135a para. 2 Z 7 as amended by Dr. Pumberger, Dr. Rasinger and comrades. In case of consent, I ask for a sign. This part of the request was adopted by a majority. Deputies Dr. Pumberger, Dr. Rasinger and Comrades have tabled a further amendment to Article 1 Z 2 § 135a para. 2, adding a Z 8, as well as paragraphs 3 and 4. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request give a sign. – I note that this has been accepted by a majority. We shall therefore vote on the remaining parts of Article 1 as amended by Amendment 412/A. I call on those Members of the House who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Articles 2, 3 and 4. I'll vote on it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment by Dr Gusenbauer to give a sign. . I note that the request did not find the necessary majority and is therefore rejected. We shall vote on Articles 2, 3 and 4 as amended by Amendment 412/A. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is adopted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of Mr Pumberger, Mr Rasinger and Mr Comrades' own-initiative proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to be a positive sign. – This is decided by a majority. That concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The request is supported by 20 Members, i.e. sufficient. The vote at third reading must therefore be taken in a narrow vote. As far as the polls are concerned, I refer to what the Third President said earlier about the 'yes' or 'no' vote. I would ask those Members who, in third reading, agree to Amendment 412/A, "Yes" seats and those who vote against using "No" seats. Mr. Mag. Schweitzer begins with the name call; Mrs Sophie Bauer will replace him half of the vote. Please, Mr. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e7648	Did all those entitled to vote vote? – This seems to be the case. I hereby declare the vote terminated. I would ask the Members who are responsible for the vote to be taken. For this purpose, the session will be suspended for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 4:18 p.m. and resumed at 4:22 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e7680	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the following vote: 175 votes were cast, 99 "Yes" votes and 76 "No" votes. The draft law is therefore adopted at third reading. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Agatz, Auer; Bauer Rosemarie, Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Böhacker, Bösch, Brinek, Bruckmann, Brugger, Burket; Dolinschek, Donabauer; Egghart, Ellmauer; Valent, Fassleven, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, Freigaßner, Friend, Frieser; Gahr, Gatterer, Count Herbert L., Count Martin, Grollitsch, Großruck; Haigermoser, Hakl, Haller, Hartinger, Hetzl, Hofmann, Horneger, Hornek; Young; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, Knerzl, Koßl, Krüger, Kukacka, Kurzmann; Leinner, Lentsch, Lexer, Loos; Maderthaner, Mainoni, Miedl, Mikl- Leitner, Mitterlehner, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neudeck; Of which: Papházy, Partik-Pablé, Pecher, Pistotnig, Prince, Princehorn, Pumberger, Puttinger; Rasinger, Reindl; Scheucher, Scheuch, Schoettel-Delacher, Schultes, Schwarzenberger, Schweisgut, Schweitzer, Sevignani, Sodian, Spindelegger, Stadler, Staffaneller, Steibl, Stummful; Tancsits, trattners, drinkers; Wattaul, Weinmeier, Wenitsch, Westenthaler, Wachsländer, Wolfmayr; Zelot, Zernatto, Zierler, Zweytick. With "No" the Members voted: Antoni; Bauer Hannes, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brix, Brosz, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dobnigg; Eder Kurt, Edler Joseph, Edlinger, One; Faul, fisherman; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Grabner, Gradwelt, Green Forest, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hlavac, Huber; Jäger, Jarolim; Chapels, dolls, kiermaier, kogler, kostelka, herbs, cubits, sorrowers, kuntzl; Lacner, leikam, Lichtenberger, Lunacek; Maier, Mertel, Moser, Muttonen; Niederwieser, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Petrovic, Pepper, Pirklhuber, Plank, Posch, Prehauser, Prammer; Rada, Reheis, Riepl; Shashing, boar, silhavy, sima, stoisits; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wicker, Wittmann, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e7851	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Greenewald and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to the Green Forest resolution to give a sign. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What kind of application is this? There's no such thing as that!]] – The application shall bear the name given to it by the applicant. I have already noticed in plenary a hundred times that formulations are used – both by the government and by the opposition – which differ from the so-called verba legalia. This is constant practice here in the House. I have the request to read it in the way it was made. Mr Grünewald wants to abolish the "sickness tax". [[Abg.: (in the direction of Greens) Do you want to introduce the health tax?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] So I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of a sign of approval. – The request did not find the necessary majority and is therefore rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Reading of parts of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e7917	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on Amendment 412/A by Dr. Pumberger, Dr. Rasinger and Comrades, which may result in this part of the minutes being deemed approved at the end of the sitting. This will enable the immediate wording of the decision taken by the National Council. I am going to respond to this request and read this part of the official protocol, which is obviously already completed. I have to read from the Official Protocol: "Reference 412/A by Dr. Pumberger, Dr. Rasinger and comrades concerning a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act Deputies Dr. Pumberger, Dr. Rasinger and comrades shall submit the amendment proposal Supplement 1/1, which explains in the key points and according to § 53 para. 4 GOG is duplicated and distributed. The Members of Parliament, Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades, put to the referral request Supplement I/1. Deputies Dr. Gusenbauer and Comrades are submitting the amendment amendment Supplement 1/2, which explains in the key points and according to § 53 para. 4 GOG is duplicated and distributed. There is a demand for separate vote (Annex I/2). There is a request from 20 Members for reading the official protocol concerning application 412/A (Annex B). MEPs Dr. Grünewald and Comrades are submitting the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA). There is a desire to vote by name (Annexes I/3 and I/4). The vote will take place at The referral request Supplement I/1 is rejected (S, G). The draft law, contained in Amendment 412/A, will be adopted in a separate vote by a majority (F, V) and by a majority vote in the second reading, taking account of the amendment amendment (vote: 175), of which 99 votes in favour, 76 against. The amendment Addenda 1/2 was rejected – with regard to Rule 1 in a natural vote (vote: 174, of which 75 votes in favour, 99 against). The motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA) is rejected (S, G).' As far as the text of the Official Protocol is concerned. I am asking, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, whether there are objections to this version of the Official Protocol. - That's not the case. Thus, this Official Protocol applies according to § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-04-02-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00065_d7e8001	I am still saying that questions 2260/J to 2262/J have been raised at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for today at 4:28 a.m., following this meeting, with the following agenda: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template 500 and 500 of the Supplements, Federal Finance Act for 2002 together with investments in 540 of the Supplements. This means that the Advisory Group VI, which is Education, Culture and Science, as well as the Advisory Group X, is Transport, Innovation and Technology. Question Time is not scheduled for this meeting, nor is the current hour. This meeting is closed.
