ParlaMint-DK_20180601100036	The meeting is open. To the Danish Parliament's agenda today, Friday, 1 June 2018, I have received notification from the Prime Minister that the Royal Resolution of 31 May 2018 provides that the management of the business of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior from 31 May 2018 until 17 June 2018 shall be entrusted to the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 31 May 2018 provides that the management of the business of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior from 31 May 2018 until 17 June 2018 may be entrusted to the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20180601100141	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 75 by Nick Hækkerup (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Henrik Dahl (LA), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Nase Khader (KF). And we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour 62 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), against 39 (DF, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 75 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 74 by Claus Kvist Hansen (DF) and proposals for adoption No. V 76 by Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Søren Søndergaard (EL) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601100254	No amendments have been tabled. Any of you guys want to make a statement? There is not, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601100307	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. And we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 84 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 17 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601100342	No amendments have been tabled. Any of you guys want to make a statement? There is not, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601100356	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. And we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour 102 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601100429	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601100442	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. And we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote now. in favour of 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, KF, 2 (ALT) (by mistake) and 2 (SF) (by mistake)), against 12 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601100520	No amendments have been tabled. The Minister of Taxation wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601100539	Thank you, President. Hopefully, when a majority is about to adopt this bill, it will probably only be with votes from the government and the Danish People's Party. It may not be so surprising when we in the Folketing are not entirely in agreement when it comes to tax cuts, but it may be surprising that a proposal with this content does not have broader support in the Folketing, and I would like to say a few words about that here today. There should be no doubt that this government is working to lighten the tax burden on working something that I noted many parties went to the polls on, also more parties than those who vote for the proposal that the government is making here today and when we work for it, we are doing it with the bill here by introducing a job allowance targeted at lower labour incomes. I have heard many different opinions about the job deduction: some think it is unreasonable that people with high incomes also receive a tax relief, so they would have liked to have deducted the step-by-step. That is not the view of the government, because we would have liked to see it made easier even more, not just for some, but for all those who are in full-time employment. It is only right that those who go to work should be rewarded to a greater extent than today for working, because they are the ones who finance our welfare societies. The view that tax relief should be targeted at some, and then there are some who should not have it, is a strange view, and that is a little like entering into the public collective bargaining, and then it is said that only one professional group should have a wage increase, while some other professional groups should have absolutely nothing. There may be differences when you make public collective bargaining, who should have the biggest wage increases, but having a starting point that some should not be rewarded at all for the work they have done is very strange, and that is the policy of a number of parties here in the Folketing when it comes to tax cuts. I think it's strange. I want to make it quite clear: no one gets more than the maximum job allowance of DKK 2,500 with this proposal. in 2020, so in relative terms, the lowest income gets the most out of the job allowance • the lowest income gets the most out of the job allowance. There are then some who believe that the job allowance should apply from the first earned crown, whether you are on cash benefits or get paid because you are out working. We have proposed that the job allowance be translated into the agreement we have made with the Danish People's Party in this bill, so it is targeted people in employment. So we are giving people in employment an incentive to take a job or work something more, that is to say to make our society richer, and that is why, of course, it is only fair that it is reserved for wage income and targeted people who are in the labour market. Is it not unreasonable for those outside the labour market? This certainly gives them an incentive to move into the labour market, which is fair. Some people then say that they will not give the lowest-paid tax cuts at all, and I am really surprised that in collective bargaining we can fight a hard fight for higher wages but will not give workers any more money through tax cuts. I do not have any connection with those parties that have that position. The latter group can be included in the Social Democratic Party, which, with their amendments, which were voted down at second reading, did not want a targeted job deduction, reductions in the base tax or an increase in the ceiling on the employment allowance. I could then understand if one were only against the increase in the employment allowance, in which there is something distributional, but I am surprised that the Social Democratic Party and, incidentally, a number of other parties in the Folketing will not help to give ordinary, hard-working Danes a little more money on their pockets • so ordinary, hard-working workers are allowed to keep a little more of their wages; not much more, but a little more. It is very surprising that there are no more parties in the Folketing who can vote for that part of the bill, especially when you look at the line taken under the previous government, where a tax reform was made that is much more biased than the tax reform the government has agreed here with the Danish People's Party and is much more unequal than the tax reform the government has agreed with the Danish Parliament. The previous government made a tax reform which raised the top tax limit, and it is not an element of the government's proposal at all. I am very surprised, therefore, that during the third reading we cannot see ourselves in the proposal, so I must say that I think it is very strange, and I hope there are some voters and some Danes who take note of that. If the amendments tabled by the Socialists at second reading, which have therefore been voted down, had been voted through, a tax reform with a negative supply of labour would have been achieved, that is, a tax reform which would make Denmark poorer. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out here that it is strange that otherwise responsible parties can propose tax reforms which have a negative supply of labour. What does that mean? This means that it is a tax reform that overall makes Denmark poorer instead of making Denmark richer, and then one fails a central political task from my side. It is fair enough that you do not want to be involved in what the government is proposing, and it is fair enough that you have alternatives, but when you propose things that really make Denmark poorer, then there is reason to wonder from the Parliament's platform, and I do so today as tax minister. I have also noticed that there have been a number of statements, among others. on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament: priority must be given to tax relief and welfare. That is, of course, a perfectly reasonable view, which other parties also have. Now it is the case, however, that one does not exclude the other with the room for manoeuvre we are looking into. And with the government's tax agreement, which will be implemented here with the bill today, there will be overall room in the economy to deal with the demographic trend over the period up to 2025. And with the economy we have at the moment, where it is rushing forward, we are also looking into the fact that the room for manoeuvre is at least not going to be smaller, but possibly going to be bigger than what we have been expecting. So that concern may be fair enough to have, but when you dive into the figures, I don't think there's a professional basis for having it. Finally, I would like to add a few words to the Social Democrats' proposal to reduce the ceiling on the amount of pension payments, so that a higher rate of deduction is financed, on which there was also an amendment that was voted down at second reading. In this way, what is in the proposal here about interaction problems is targeted to solve it for people in the low-income group, but it is not only people in the low-income group who are affected by interplay problems that are therefore about whether or not it is worth saving up to pensions. The amount of the deduction ceiling is essential for the pension deduction to increase the incentive to save extra up to pension. A lower ceiling would mean that fewer people would gain an extra gain by increasing their pension payments. This also applies to people who do not pay top taxes. With the ceiling of DKK 70,000 that we are proposing here in the bill, people whose pension payments are 13.7% will be paid out. of wage income, obtain the maximum pension allowance for a wage income equal to the top tax limit. That is quite reasonable and balanced. For a typical member of Dansk Metal, the deposit rate is e.g. 12, while for high school teachers it is 16.8. Against this background, I think, and it is perhaps not so surprising, that I should like to take this opportunity to advertise the government's legislative proposals here today and think that this is a well-balanced legislative proposal that we are dealing with third-reading. It is a proposal that deserves broader support than it gets here in the vote. And I'm not alone in thinking that. Insurance & Pension has just last Monday directly urged the parliamentary politicians to stand firm and adopt this proposal which we are now considering. And when the trade organisation of Danish insurance companies and pension funds, which have these problems of interaction on a daily basis, i.e. that it is not worth saving up for ordinary Danes, goes out with such a clear call, then I also think that the Folketing owes it to them to listen to them, and therefore I would like to stress that recommendation here today. The proposal benefits a great many Danes. I think it would be a good way to round the parliamentary assembly and go on summer holidays that there was a broad circle of parties in the Folketing who voted in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601101429	Thank you, Minister. It gave rise to three brief remarks, and the first one is from Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601101435	There is, of course, a reason why we are not voting for this proposal today, and that is why it is a waste of money and that it also takes 8 billion towards 2025. kr. of the room for manoeuvre, which should have been used for welfare. It is of course interesting that there are so many parties that have made deteriorations for the sick, for the disabled and for the unemployed, on the grounds that that money should then be spent on welfare, and then you get such an agreement here, which is wasted and where the money then goes to the people who already have the most. In relation to the targeted job allowance that the tax minister is talking about, one has to say that if it is targeted at those who have the least, then I would really like to see what a job allowance for those who already have the most is from the government's point of view, because we can see that the 10%. with the lowest incomes with the targeted job deduction get 20 DKK, while the richest 10%. gets 440 kroner. And the job deduction costs 1.4 billion. kr. A year, but that's only 160 million. kr. of those who go to those who earn up to 300,000 kroner. Every year the rest goes to those who earn more than that. If to any extent this is targeted something, then it is targeted those who earn the most. How can it be a job deduction that is primarily of benefit to those earning the least? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601101547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601101549	In other words, the targeted job deduction is targeted at people in full-time employment, and where you get the relatively greatest relief is in the low-income group who are in full-time employment. The job allowance gives both the HK and the director DKK 650, which is why it is strange to be against such a targeted job deduction. I understand that Enhedslisten is opposed to the proposal. The Enhedslisten will just spend money on welfare... the Enhedslisten won't spend money on making this society richer, which we do by rewarding those who work. It is not unreasonable to say to a HK or a LO at minimum wage: You get to keep a little more of your own money. So it is not unreasonable, just as it is not unreasonable, that we have given them more in the payroll in public bargaining, but there we have also given the doctor who is working more hard in the hospital in the payroll, just as we have done to the nurse and the SOSU assistant. We didn't tell the doctor there, you don't need anything. That is why it is strange that the Enhedslisten has that tax policy, but it is not a new tax policy, and that is why I am not surprised by Mr Rogalla. Rune Lund's views.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601101700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601101701	I would just like to ask: if you have a so-called targeted job allowance, which should benefit those with the lowest incomes and which costs 1.4 billion. kr. a year, but there are only 160 million. kr. of the 1.4 billion kr., which goes to those who earn up to 300,000 kr. How, then, can it be called a job deduction that is targeted at those with the lowest incomes? Then it is true that if we had to make a scheme here, we would change the principles of when one is set off in the pension supplement, and we would find the funding by not being able to deduct pension payments from the top tax payment. This would be a socially balanced solution, which would ensure that those who earn the most in this society would contribute most to such a solution, and that would also benefit a great many pensioners, who are already pensioners and who are not working and who are therefore among other things not working. It is not going to benefit from what the government is proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601101753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601101755	Everyone gets 650 kroner. with the targeted job deduction, which means that the largest relative share goes to the low-income group. That's the way it is. If you had to do what Enhedslisten wants, we would have a tax reform with a very large negative labour supply, and then we would have a tax reform, where we might have changed the distribution of income, but where Denmark and the Danes overall became poorer. I think it is a poor tax policy to pursue, and that is why it is not the government's.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601101832	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601101834	The Minister of Taxation calls it strange that we are some who will not vote for this proposal, but also recognise that we have a different tax policy than the government has. One might find it strange that the Danish People's Party will vote in favour of a proposal which costs 8 billion. kr. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and Rune Lund of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is a step in the right direction. So I think it is a little interesting, and I cannot understand why the Minister of Taxation is surprised that we who want a solidarity distribution targeted at those who earn the least and, in fact, also targeted the pensioners who already exist today, who, after all, get nothing out of this, do not vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601101932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601101934	I am perhaps not so surprised that the SF is not voting in favour, but I am very surprised that the Socialists are not voting in favour. I have heard a lot of Social Democratic MPs, including a former Social Democratic Prime Minister, go to the polls that hard-working Danes should be allowed to keep a little more of their money. A former Social Democratic government, even with a SF tax minister, has also been experienced in making a tax reform. And I do not buy the premise that the tax reforms that have been made should be skewed; but if this one is crooked, then the former red government's tax reform would have been fiendish, then the then SF tax minister's tax reform would have been utterly hopeless. It wasn't, and why wasn't it? Because it eased the treasure at work. It created an incentive to work, it rewarded the working Dane, and it made Denmark richer. That SF will no longer help make Denmark richer through tax reforms is then SF's choice, but I think it is too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102030	After all, the Minister for Taxation is approaching something that is manipulation, because he talks about the solution to the problem of interaction, that is to say, whether it is worth saving up for retirement, as if there is only one solution: the one which the government has put forward and which is to be voted on today. A solution could easily have been found to the problem of interaction, which was so focused on those who earn the least, rather than on those who earn the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102053	In relation to the problem of interaction, it would have been possible to do so in different ways. We have chosen a solution that the insurance & Pension trade organisation supports and which solves the problem of interaction not for everyone, but for a large part of the Danes. And I don't think it's fair to say that someone who makes 1⁄2 million. kr., should not have an incentive to save, but that someone who earns $250,000 should. It will also be expensive for society in the long term if we do not solve the problem of interaction, as it is in the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102118	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102120	One can hear from the tax minister that we are approaching, that there is a year for there to be parliamentary elections. And I also think it's good that the tax minister goes up and gives the speech he's making today. I know that he really would have liked to have made a speech about the abolition of the top tax. And the bill we are discussing here is, of course, the remnants of the government's great desire to significantly reduce top tax, in which the government has been prevented. And that's so good. So that speech had to be dropped by the tax minister and then try something else. The Minister for Taxation knows that this is a matter of priority. We are not opposed to ordinary people getting more in the payroll. Nor are we opposed to it if we can put the tax down for them. But the order must be right and the priorities must be in order. And what you are doing here is making a tax deal that will cost 2 billion. kr. a year on the common welfare • money that the Prime Minister has previously promised the Danes should go to welfare. At the same time, you make a skewed solution to the interaction problem, and you could have made one that gave the HK more in exchange for the director getting a little less. And that is why the government must come up with a wiser policy if it wants our support that is reasonable in terms of welfare and that is balanced in terms of distribution policy. And you haven't done that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102245	Well, I'm hearing what Mr. Jesper Petersen says. I am just surprised that you cannot see yourself in any of the proposals. I understand if you do not want to raise the ceiling on the employment allowance. However, you do not want to be involved in a targeted job deduction targeted at people in full-time employment. For the relatively largest relief is down there and costs 1.4 billion. kr. The fact that you do not want to help give hard-working Danes a tax relief surprises me, especially because when you followed the election campaign last time, you got the clear impression that the then Social Democratic Prime Minister thought it was quite reasonable that the ordinary hard-working Dane should be allowed to keep a little more. It was also believed that there was money for it. And when you look at the room, there's money to give tax relief. So it is fair enough that you do not want to be involved in what the government proposed, it is fair enough that you do not want to be involved in what is in this bill, but that you do not want to be involved in any of it, I think is a little strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102344	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102346	The Treasury Minister can't talk his way away from the fact that this is $2 billion. kr. of the funds which were actually provided for common welfare. And I think that the Left should take the signal from the municipal committee a little more seriously that citizens think that there are problems locally in primary schools, care for the elderly, day care institutions, social policy etc. These are problems that we need to resolve first before we go on to see if there is room for further reductions in taxes. The Minister of Taxation is right that a tax reform has been carried out in 2012. It didn't cost anything in the room. It's still in phase. It was primarily about low-paid people. The question now is whether we need 2 billion. kr. More. Are we gonna do this? But ask the Folketing. We don't think this is the right way to do it, because you don't choose welfare first, and because you make a skewed solution to an interaction problem that you could have solved in a better way that came to the benefit of the HK and, on the other hand, was less for the benefit of the Director. The government wouldn't. That is why it cannot get our support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102444	You cannot put taxes or VAT on your speaking time. Speaking time is 1 minute and 1⁄2 minute. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102453	On the other hand, the spoken word is tax-free, at least. And the Members of Parliament should be happy about that, because we talk a lot. I just wonder why the Social Democratic Party cannot see itself in the solution, which lies here in relation to the problem of interaction, and so listens to Insurance & Pension; that they can in no way see themselves using a bent 25-ear to give the ordinary hard-working Dane, the worker, a small reward for going to work. There is advice both on welfare and on the tax cuts that the government is putting forward here. This can be seen in the economic impact assessments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102533	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. That's why I need to know if anyone else wants to speak. That is not the case, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102542	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of voting 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be forwarded to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102623	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102635	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102712	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102725	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 22 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102759	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102820	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102829	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102840	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 80 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 22 (DF). The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102915	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601102934	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 31 (DF and EL), against 70 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601103015	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601103107	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601103122	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601103132	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will be sent to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601103215	At any rate, there is one who wishes to speak, namely Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601103233	Thank you very much. And thank you for the floor. Inuit Ataqatigiit takes the floor in the debate because there are two things about this bill that have worried us. One is that Greenlanders and Faroese people living in Denmark are treated in the same way as foreigners, and the other is that access to Danish education is impaired by the bill. When we equate Greenlanders and cousins with foreigners, it is of immediate symbolic value. But let us be clear that Greenlanders are Danish citizens and should be treated as such. In the law in force, Greenlanders and forefathers who do not master the Danish language are treated as foreigners, i.e.: in the applicable law, not in this bill. This also means that we are helping to keep alive the prejudices and challenges that there are for Greenlanders. We marginalize Greenlanders, as it were. Therefore, IA will also encourage the government to change the legislation in force, not with this bill, but in a further process. A lot of Greenlanders like to live here in Denmark. Many thrive, and the vast majority are also a huge resource for Danish society. At Inuit Ataqatigiit, we believe that diversity is a strength, we believe that it is also when Greenlanders settle in Denmark. We believe that Greenlanders in Denmark help to make Denmark a bigger, more rich and more diverse society. Inuit Ataqatigiit has fought for a political majority which backs the recognition of Greenlanders and forefathers as equal members of the Commonwealth. They are not foreigners, and that is clear from the opinion of a committee in broad agreement. I am pleased that there has been good cooperation between the Greenland Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Thank you to all the parties for their support for this. And then back to the second point. When we reduce access to Danish education, we also reduce access to the labour market. Never before have we seen in Danish society that there have been so many in work. It's really, really positive and happy. But it is also important to remember that only about half of all Greenlanders who live here in Denmark every day go to work pay taxes and do their part to be an active part of Danish society. We have not been good enough to include Greenlanders in the Danish labour market. It is, of course, about personal responsibility on the part of the individual, it is about professionalism and competences, but it is also about a lack of political focus, and we want to do something about that. That is why I am also pleased that in the coming parliamentary year, the Ministry of Employment will help pave the way for trying to get even more Greenlanders to work, and I think that is quite appropriate. I am pleased that the government has listened to the criticism of this draft law on reduced access to Danish education. The government has chosen to sell a pool of 2.5 million. kr. in the coming years for Danish education for Greenlanders in Denmark. This is very positive, and I look forward to it supporting efforts to get even more Greenlanders in Denmark to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601103609	You're welcome. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601103612	I would just like to thank the rapporteur for our good cooperation. I am aware that the rapporteur also knows very well that parts of this legislative text have been formulated as it is, because of EU rules, and that is precisely why the opinion of a unanimous committee of mine emphasizes that all Danes, Faroese and Greenlanders are equal members of the Kingdom Community. And then I was very pleased with the announcement that came the other day from the Ministry of Education, where, compared with Danish teaching for Greenlanders living in Denmark, 2.5 million are being set aside. kr. to this particular area to ensure that native Greenlanders continue to have access to real, really good Danish education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601103658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601103700	Thank you very much to the questioner. I see this primarily as a comment, and I would like to thank and acknowledge for the good cooperation. This shows that politics is the art of the possible, so this has been a compromise that we have reached which we can see reflected in, and in which I understand that many of the parties in here also see themselves reflected. So thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601103724	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, and congratulations on your strong support. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There is not, and then the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601103731	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? And you really should say no, but you never say anything! They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601103800	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601103811	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and RV). A vote can be taken now. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 78 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 15 and 16, tabled and joined by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Amendment No 3, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and KF) Amendment No 4 was accepted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5-8, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), on Amendment No 5, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats). 9-12, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and CF), on Amendment No. 22 on Amendment No 22 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 14, adopted by the Committee on Amendment No 14, on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, and to members of their families moving within the Community, as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of Then it's all agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104028	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104100	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104131	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104209	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104224	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104250	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior has informed me that he wishes to accept Amendment No. 2 and 5 of the report remain. Does anyone wish to accept these proposals? As this is not the case, the amendments have lapsed. The members of the Social Democratic Party have informed me that they then wish to accept Amendment No. 3 of the report back. Does anyone wish to accept that proposal? As this is not the case, the amendment has lapsed. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, I can see that the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104346	It is not as Minister for Transport, Building and Housing that I wish to speak, but as one of my two other titles, namely as Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. I would like to sign for the receipt of the bill and for the constructive debate that we have had. The government has also listened to the views that have been expressed, especially those that have come from several municipalities. The main purpose of the draft law is to support municipalities charging for parking for traffic purposes and not for fiscal reasons, to treat municipalities more equally, to encourage cost-effectiveness and, at the same time, to provide for the possibility of covering payment parking costs, including for new investments in parking spaces. I would like to point out that the government has no desire to hit municipalities that have invested in parking facilities in confidence in the rules to date. The government has listened to the municipal views and tabled an amendment which means that the offsetting for each municipality will be reduced by an amount corresponding to the municipality's costs of depreciation and return on the investments in parking facilities so far and planned. In this way, municipalities will be able to obtain a deduction for investments already undertaken in parking facilities and, in the future, the net income of municipalities will thus be used to cover the municipalities' operating costs and new investments in the parking area. However, I would also like to point out that there are other points of view which may give rise to concern that there are municipalities which, in response to the tightening of set-off rules, might raise parking prices. Therefore, the government will follow developments in the municipalities, and the government is also prepared to tighten up further if necessary at a later stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104532	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments. And the first one is from sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104536	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to sign off on the fact that the government has had to move. But what we have moved on is only the transitional arrangements. Can the Minister not confirm that the criticisms that have been made are not addressed? There has been broad criticism from municipalities governed by all parties, and not only from the municipalities, also from an organisation such as FDM, i.e. UNITED DANISH MOTORIALS, whereas the Minister for the Interior said at first reading that he thought it was one, and I quote, "very fine proposal" that informed the Danish Parliament that it would be a disaster to introduce it. Your criticism that it would be a disaster for drivers to introduce it is not addressed at all in the amendment tabled by the government. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104630	FDM has the view that it is good that there are some set-off rules so that municipalities cannot continue to tighten the parking screw further and further for fiscal reasons. However, FDM also has the view that the money that comes into the Treasury should then go some way to encourage municipalities to create parking spaces. We have not responded to that. We have a wish that the municipalities should not continue to pick the drivers, and that is why we have tabled this bill. But the Social Democrats are only opposed to that wish. The Social Democrats want the municipalities to have a screw, they can tighten up with the motorists, and that is why the Social Democrats are opposed to this proposal. So it's not that weird. But please tell me honestly, sir. Magnus Heunicke, that the Social Democracy wants the municipalities to be able to pick the drivers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104716	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104717	There the Minister speaks quite against better knowledge and he is a substitute in this area, but he knows very well that with the current rules there is no possibility that the municipalities can turn that button here and get the money themselves. That is why, one might imagine, the government has had to write, very unusual, that you will follow the area closely and that you will introduce further measures or the like in the next assembly. That is what the report says. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left told Danmarks Radio yesterday that the money the state is getting will be spent on new infrastructure projects in the capital. How much of the money from the Jutland motorists in Aarhus, in Aalborg, in Esbjerg and from the Funen in Odense will go to infrastructure projects in the capital, as the government party says?
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104817	The rules, as they are today, ensure that if the municipalities increase the income from parking, they go to the Treasury. But the damage has already been done. This is the case in the municipalities, on average, if they charge 100 per cent. revenue from parking, they only use the 30%. on expenses related to parking. That damage does not affect the current legislation, but it does the bill that the government has put forward in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104852	Sir. Orla Sea. No! Then we'll take sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104903	I would like to ask a few questions about how this should be understood when the government, like Mr. Magnus Heunicke mentioned the very unusual contribution that has been made to the report by writing that the area will be monitored closely and that it is the intention of the government to introduce further austerity. Does this mean that one can expect, if it does not go as the government would like it to go? and there are a number of municipalities that have pointed out that the only means could actually be to increase the payment for parking • that the government then in the next parliamentary assembly will end up putting forward a proposal to go up to 80% or 90% off the parking income?
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601104956	Well, I consider it hypothetical, but some municipalities have said that it could then be that the parking screw would be tightened even further. And that is all I am saying: the government is completely open to taking this into account in new legislation as well. So you might want to be careful about this in the municipalities. There is enough income from parking in the municipalities for you to deliver 70 per cent. to the state and still keep the 30% which covers the costs you have. This is what the figures show quite clearly, namely that the municipalities are spending less than 30 per cent on the large municipalities. of their revenue from parking at costs related to parking. Therefore, there is no need to charge more parking fees on the part of the municipalities. In today's parking charges, there is already enough money to cover parking costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105055	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105057	Well, that's honest talk. This is a real threat to the municipalities that might be forced to act, for example. to increase the payment for parking if they want to secure sufficient funds to invest in the area. One wonders why the government is really taking over here, what is to say, the entire parking policy from the municipalities. You may then wonder further, because that pool, or it will not be, but the money that you set against will be quite a considerable amount of 360 million. kr. or something like that, but you will then not promise to spend it on traffic measures, investment in parking facilities, and whatever else it might be, around. It will be money that goes directly into the treasury and which will be used for example. tax relief, which is the government's big battle number.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105154	Well, it is likely to be the same circle of parties that vote through this bill to protect the ordinary driver, who also has the resources in financial law. How that money is to be spent is not at all a problem, as Mr. Henning Hyllested needs to worry about. The parties that crawl in the money will probably also be the parties that find out how the money is to be spent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105217	Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105221	I think the Minister and the government may be right that many drivers experience it as a pity and a pity to have to pay to park, but one thing you think is more awkward and awkward when you drive around looking for a parking lot is that there is no place to hold. That's one of those things. Left, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has criticised, and he has said that this agreement is certainly not in the interests of drivers, on the contrary, because it will make it much harder to find a parking lot. Then he has raised some criticism and got something through, and then he pays tribute here in an article at www.dr.dk that the money that is being scratched in has been secured so secured to be used for investment, but in the capital, which means that in Aalborg, where I live and where we have a very good parking policy, it will be so that the money that the municipality gets confiscated by the government will be spent here in the metropolitan area. So you have to drive around looking for a parking lot, and when you finally find one and pay, the money the municipality has confiscated goes right to the capital. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105334	There has been no discussion within the government on how to use the proceeds from this scheme. Nor has there been any discussion with the Danish People's Party, as I know. So it hasn't even been the time to talk about it yet. We will make financial legislation when the autumn comes, and then we will find out how total public revenue is to be allocated to expenditure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105355	I'm just standing here with an article with a statement from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, where it says: "In addition, according to Feds Jan E. Jørgensen, the government will commit itself to using a considerable amount of the increased revenue to the Treasury from municipal parking revenue for new infrastructure projects in the capital. - Is that Mr. Knox? Jan E. Jørgensen, who speaks untruely to Danmarks Radio, or will the Minister just not be honest about how to rob the municipalities of Jutland for money to spend it in the capital?
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105434	From 2021 onwards, there are considerable infrastructure resources available, and I should be very surprised if they are not distributed in a way that will also bring more to the capital than what comes from this parking revenue. So we are currently facing an investment challenge. We do not have money for new infrastructure investments, but from 2021 onwards there are large amounts and the government's 2025 plan reserves 20 billion. kr. more, and I am quite sure that part of that money goes to the capital.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105506	It gave rise to a brief remark from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105510	I guess I don't have to take the floor myself. Others do that on my behalf. I am not saying that money should only be spent on infrastructure challenges in the capital. There are also challenges elsewhere, Aalborg, Limfjords connection etc., but money must also be spent in the capital. That is also what the Minister is saying. I think we should welcome the fact that there has been a sensible consultation process. Some sensible speeches have been made, and the government is listening and changing things. I really think that bears witness to a government that does not just dig down and say that what has been said once can never be changed. It is a fine democratic process that has been, and I really think that we should all just rejoice and then bet on getting better conditions for traffic in the capital, but also in other places where traffic is about to turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105604	I can confirm that infrastructure investments are needed throughout the country. In recent years we have spent almost all our money and even a large sum of money on rail investment. We must continue to do so, and we must also make further rail measures, but roads have not had enough. These have been under-priority, among others. in the former government, where only those driving trains were watched, and not those driving by car on the roads. After all, most of them are. But one has not really been aware of their challenges, their hardships. This government is gonna do something about that. It is our ambition that the funds available for infrastructure investments after 2021 should be used to a large extent on roads across the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105648	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105650	Well, it sounds good to me that you want to help the drivers. I recognize as a Social Democrat that I am in fact still in favour of the Train Fund DK, because I believe that public transport will reduce the need for parking. I'm from Vejle. There we also sometimes drive around looking for parking spaces, and now we have heard that the capital is being helped. Don't the other provincial towns help the parking option that's here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105716	There is no policy in the government that the money coming from parking should be exactly spent in the capital. I think so, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has said that money must also be spent in the capital. But that doesn't mean that no money will be spent in Aalborg or South Jutland or on Funen or South Zealand. Money must then be spent everywhere, especially because the Social Democrats have neglected the roads as much as they have and have only thought about the trains. And that is still the policy of social democracy. After all, we have the Social Democrats' word that if you can find some money after 2020 for infrastructure investments, if there is anything left, after spending money on welfare and transfer income, they must first of all go to stop the gap in the Togfonden DK before they can be spent on road projects. So it is first Train Fund DK with its extensive phase 2 projects before you can start looking at the roads. This is the policy of social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105815	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105816	I think I know the policy of the Social Democratic Party and I accept it as well. But it does not mean that we stop the urban parking spaces or the parking spaces in the cities. After all, we also want cleaner cities. So my question was this: when we collect money for the state and the state will spend it well on roads or in parking lots, do they also spend it in parking lots in provincial towns?
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105840	We know that after 2020, from 2021 onwards, there is again room for manoeuvre for infrastructure investment and how it is to be used, has not yet been decided. It is, of course, a majority in the Folketing that decides it, but the government's priority is clear: the roads must have some more investment. It is not only the trains that need to be invested in, as the Social Democrats believe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105907	Thanks to the Minister for Transport, Building, Housing and Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Does anyone else want to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601105920	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour 19 (EL, ALT, SF and 1 RV (by mistake)) voted against 55 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstained 27 (S). The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 7 outside the report by the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior (Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille) as adopted. It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT) and can be voted on. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), 52 (DF, V, LA and KF) abstained from voting 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 8 outside the report by the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior (Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille) as adopted. It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20180601110107	Sir. Magnus Heunicke objects.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601110112	Yes, I do. Thank you for that, President, and I raise the objection that we are asking for the proposal to be returned to the committee here between the second and third readings. I think the debate here with the Minister clearly shows that the government has had to cancel some amendments and has tabled a new amendment, and that came yesterday. That is why there is a need for us to have time to examine that amendment in committee, and I hope that this will be supported by Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601110156	I would like to know whether anyone has any objections to the fact that the proposal goes back to committee. There is. Then we take a vote on it. We're gonna need a short break so the technique can keep up. Is the technique ready for a vote? Wait a minute. Isn't the Minister against that either? So I would like to ask again: is there anyone who is against us sending it back to committee? That is not the case. So the bill goes back to the committee. Thank you. Then the technique got out of hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601110350	I can see that someone wants to speak, namely Mrs Jette Gottlieb from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601110356	Thank you. I venture to take the floor, although this is the last item on the agenda. Because I would like to say something about the proposal for a holistic plan for citizens with complex problems. I will put the proposal into the category description of common sense. And that is why it must be a general reflection in Things that 58 pages of legal text are required and with our own amendments it will probably be 59 pages because it requires a proposal to use common sense in the proceedings. That's how much it takes. This is all the more unreasonable since the changes do not necessarily lead to any practical changes. Municipalities can do holistic processing; some are already doing so with great success today, and they can do so after the adoption of the bill. But they are not obliged to do so. And that is where our amendment is, because it means that if the citizen wants it, the municipality should be obliged to do so. In addition, however, we must also note that the comments do not appear in the legislative text itself, but in the comments ^ an opportunity has been taken to introduce the possibility of coordinating data sharing between administrations, among other things. also for the purpose of finding the people who could benefit from one plan. And that is almost contrary to the spirit of the proposal. The spirit of the proposal is, of course, that with one plan and one case officer a closer dialogue between the case officer and the citizen will be achieved. And then the solution is staggeringly near: Ask the citizen himself. There is no reason for the general exchange of data and data interconnection and such. In spite of all that has been said, however, I would also like to say that the Enhedslisten intends to vote in favour of the proposal, because it is almost impossible to vote against common sense. But think about the fact that there must be 58 pages of legal text in order to obtain the possibility that already exists to have common sense in the proceedings. So this is something we need to think about a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601110559	Thank you very much to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. It did not give rise to brief remarks. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601110608	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT). And a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 19 (EL, ALT, SF and 1 DF (by mistake)) voted against 80 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT). And a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 82 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT). And a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 83 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 6, 7 and 8, tabled and joined by the same minorities as rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4 and 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180601110831	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, except that I would like to thank everyone for the work of the people's government, not least the technique. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Monday 4 June 2018, kl. 9. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. Have a good weekend.
