ParlaMint-DK_20180419100008	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 222 (Proposal for a law on citizenship). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100040	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100044	As the question has been put to the debate at paragraph 29 of this sitting, the item can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100117	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 50 of Marlene Harpsøe (DF), Astrid Krag (S), Anni Matthiesen (V), Rune Lund (EL), Henrik Dahl (LA), Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Marlene Borst Hansen (RV), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF). And a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. Proposal for adoption No V 50 has been adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100231	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100251	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100319	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100336	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Has everyone voted? The vote is closed. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100421	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100439	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 84 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 22 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100508	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100530	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions: 30 (S). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100609	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100626	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 86 (S, Christian Langballe (DF), V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 21 (DF), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100700	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100716	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 83 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100744	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100801	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 76 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 31 (DF and EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100833	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419100941	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Has everyone voted? The vote is over. In favour of 98 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101020	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101048	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 10 (ALT and SF), against 96 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101123	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101147	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 46 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 60 (S, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101219	No amendments have been tabled. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101240	Thank you. I want to remind you all what this case is all about. It is about a lot of people, children, back in the 1960s and 1970s, who lived in orphanages under the authority and care of the Danish state and what should be protection, but which some unthinkable abuse of. It was sexual abuse, it was violence, it was psychological terror, it was medication; it was one of the worst things you can imagine surpassing children, and it happened here in Denmark, and it happened not very long ago. It happened at a time that was different, yes, but also at that time it was illegal and bad, not usual at all or the norm on the contrary. The Danish state failed to protect the children, failed to look after the children, and very many of them have got some big scars on the soul. They still live away, and they live with that betrayal and the abuse every single day. I do not think there is a single person in this Chamber who has not heard them say how much they have fought to get an apology from the state that failed them. Unfortunately, Denmark is not the only country in the world where this happened against children at the orphanages back in the 1960s and 1970s, but Denmark is unfortunately one of those countries which has not yet taken responsibility and have been apologized. Others have, and so we can do it. The people who are living with this today are struggling to get that excuse, and they have done so through several social ministers, they have done so through several governments, and they have done it all the way through the judicial system. What has happened between the first reading and the second reading of this draft law is that this matter in the judicial system has come to an end. So just an appeal. It is not people who want money, it is people who want an apology that they deserve, because they were seriously abandoned by the Danish state, and it is an excuse that they need: on the one hand, to place a responsibility where it belongs; on the other hand, to say as a community that something went wrong; on the other hand, to be able to move on and close the case themselves. I really hope that more people will change their minds at this point, because there are actually a lot of parties that have changed their minds, and I would like to thank you for that. Now I'm looking over at the Social Democrats. And then I am sure that there are some others who can change their minds, so that basic justice can be done, and so that all the children in the 19 orphanages, including the Godhavns boys, get the excuse that they need. Hopefully we can also one day investigate what happened in all the other orphanages in Denmark in addition to that in Godhavn. Just vote for it!
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101604	Members of Parliament know very well that we must not shout in the Assembly no matter what. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101617	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Has everyone voted? I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101722	Sir. Jan Rytkjær Callesen would like to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101737	Thank you. The Danish People's Party would like this bill back in committee to be referred back to committee. The reason is that we do not know the financial framework for the private institutions to take over these websites and applications.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101815	I think we need to make this a little clearer from the floor of Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101819	We would like to suspend the negotiations on this bill and refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101829	There's now Mr. Knox. Jan Rytkjær Callesen, Danish People's Party, proposed that the second reading of L 126 be stopped and that the proposal be referred back to committee. The debate on interruption takes place in such a way that each rapporteur can speak for or against an interruption and the speaking time is one minute. Does anyone wish to speak? There isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101850	If the vote is not requested, I shall consider the proposal that the matter be stopped and that the proposal be referred back to committee as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419101938	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419102012	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419102032	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419102052	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419102112	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Bills and motions for resolutions are still being dealt with. I have just taken a little break, because then I thought that you would stop talking and move out of the Chamber if you were not interested in being here. But I can't put it off much longer, so I'm gonna ask you to calm down now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419102259	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419102316	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419102335	Thank you. The bill here is about two things. The first relates to the following: Imagine that you are a patient and have been in the hospital where you have been treated either surgically or medically. The experts at the hospital have done what they're supposed to do, you've been down at the physiotherapist or the ergotherapist, and a plan has been put in place, and you have to go home and go on with your life. However, rehabilitation is not quite completed, and rehabilitation requires that the physiotherapist or ergotherapist of the municipality should take over and continue with the plan laid down by the hospital, from the doctor's point of view at the hospital. For a long time it has been a challenge for some municipalities to get on too slowly with what is the municipality's task in connection with rehabilitation. The government is now putting forward a bill here, which we support from the Social Democratic side, because it is not right and proper for the individual citizen and patient to stall his rehabilitation because the municipality is too slow to take over and set up the municipal offer. Therefore, it is very good to introduce a period of 7 days that the municipality has to make its planning within, and then you have to start rehabilitation. Otherwise, the citizen and the patient are given the opportunity to go out to a private physiotherapist or ergotherapist, to a clinic, and to hand in their rehabilitation plan and get started with the rehabilitation which is an extension and completion of the course of medical treatment that has been completed in the hospital. This is right and proper, and we in the Socialist Group have often criticised the municipalities for not being able to follow up this task clearly enough. It is a question of getting rid of the hump you must have in each municipality. And here we have to say that we are in the happy situation, that we have enough physiotherapists and ergotherapists in Denmark. There are many other health professionals we need, but we do not do that in physiotherapists and ergotherapists. The second thing in the draft law here, which we also support from the Socialist side, is that you go in and look at some of the barriers to economic barriers, administrative barriers that may lie in getting started with even more clinical trials on drugs in our society. We know this is one of the benefits to patients, citizens; it is that clinical trials are being carried out in our hospitals and elsewhere in the health service, and that is very good. The government has been there to say that a fee reduction is to be made in relation to this area. And I think that the framework for this is good, i.e. that it is largely non-commercial experiments, that is, not commercial experiments, where there are major economic interests, the pharmaceutical industry and other things behind it, so as to facilitate access for clinical trials which do not have the backup in business and economic terms. So, overall, this is a good legislative proposal, which we are delighted to support from the Socialist side, because it benefits patients, the citizens both in one way and in another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419102713	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, so that is Mrs Liselot Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419102721	Thank you very much. As the previous rapporteur spoke about, this is about two different things, and what I will probably be most concerned with is free choice for rehabilitation. Retraining is something that the Danish People's Party has been working on for many years. Already in 2008, we made a proposal that we should ensure proper rehabilitation and rehabilitation of brain damage, and since then a great deal of funding has been set aside, and many proposals have been made, as we have always said, because this is of great importance to the Danish People's Party. But we have just seen that there are some municipalities that have had difficulty giving that training, and that is why they stalled and had more difficulty restoring their ability as needed. That is why we very much welcome the fact that, in relation to the Finance Act, we had a free choice for rehabilitation. But there are also some things that we would like to work on a little further, because that is not all that is clear in relation to the fact that we are now making a free choice for rehabilitation. These are people who have been admitted to the hospital and who receive a right to rehabilitation through the Health Act. So we also have patients, and we get more and more, who come to a specialist or to a general practitioner and need rehabilitation. They don't have the same rights with this law, and we'd like to talk to the Minister for Health about that, i.e. how we can put patients straight, no matter where they come from, as long as a doctor has said that you need rehabilitation. We think it is very good that private people can now also come in and make an effort, but we must also ensure that there is quality in that effort. All too often, I have seen that brain-damaged patients do not receive rehabilitation in their speech skills, i.e. logo pedigree therapy, or that they do not receive the cognitive therapy they need in order to move on to their daily life. One looks mainly at arms and legs, that is to say mobility, while one does not look so much at the rest of the rehabilitation. And that is where we need to ensure that there are those qualities. How KL should then be able to qualify the private offers of the various municipalities, we also see as a challenge that we will ask questions about. They need to know a little about what private training places are located in the individual municipalities. And bearing in mind that we have 98 municipalities, it will be a great deal of work that needs to be done. Compared to our other proposal, which is in this • now I said ours, and that's enough because it was some of the prints we put on the Finance Act • it's fee relief when we talk about clinical trials with drugs. It's incredibly important that we have these clinical trials. I remember that I was on the road with the Minister of Health, where we were looking at immunotherapy, because we have some good doctors who come with some tests, and we have to keep helping to push, and that is how we have many different tests in our healthcare system. It should not be slowed down by the fact that there will be large fees in this area. So minimising the economic barrier to the approval and conduct of clinical trials will also make it more attractive for both Danish and foreign researchers to place their experiments in Denmark. So a yes to the proposal, but there will be a number of issues in the course of the debate, and we hope that we can adjust some of them for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419103120	Thank you to the rapporteur, and there are no comments here either. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419103127	Today, we are dealing first with a legislative proposal which contains two parts. The first part of the bill allows citizens to receive more rapid rehabilitation after a disease or accident. The second part of the bill shall provide the researchers with fee incentives for the conduct of clinical trials. Today there are significant differences in waiting times for rehabilitation in the country's municipalities. This means that some citizens wait longer than others before rehabilitation can be started, and we are now changing that. Because it should not be geography that determines how fast you get started with a rehabilitation course. It is only fair to ensure a one-way practice across the country, and therefore we are now introducing a new patient right: right to rehabilitation when you are discharged from a hospital with a rehabilitation plan, in a private offer if the municipality cannot deliver within 7 calendar days. This is and has been an important priority for us in the Left. We need a strong public health service and strong municipal services, but we also need to ensure that citizens receive treatment or rehabilitation when necessary, and if the public sector cannot deliver, it is only fair that a private player should be able to help the citizen so that he or she can return to active leisure, family or working life as soon as possible. The left is on the side of the citizens, and free choice is a significant focus for us. Recently, the Swedish think tank Health Consumer Powerhouse published a report which places Denmark as the country out of 34 European countries with the best health care. It is a great location that we can be proud of, especially because one of the measuring points is precisely patient rights. Here we stand strongly in Denmark, not least because we in the Left have for a number of years insisted on putting the patient first and both introduced patient rights and rolled back the impairments of the Danish patient rights that the former Social Democratic-led government initiated. It was sad years, but now it is going the right way for the Danish patients. In the Left, we are concerned with the freedom of the individual. Whether we talk day care, schools, choice of nursing homes or as today's health, it is only fair that there is something to choose from. People are different and have different preferences. What is good for one can be an opt-out for the other and vice versa. Options and opt-outs are also crucial when companies are to launch or prioritise research funds, and from the Left we want to make it as attractive as possible to research in Denmark. We also want it to be as attractive as possible for companies to research and improve and develop new medicines in Denmark, because it also benefits Danish patients when medicines are developed on Danish soil. Today, unfortunately, there are a number of fees associated with conducting clinical trials. The high fees can prevent both Danish and foreign researchers from placing their experiments in Denmark, and we need to change that. That is why the proposal for a regulation specifically includes tax reliefs. Fee reductions in clinical trials can help us maintain and strengthen clinical Danish research in the field of medicinal products. It is a win-win for both researchers and patients and for our society at all. As part of the Finance Act, the government allocates 4.7 million. kr. in 2018 and 9,3 million; kr. in 2019 for research into immunotherapy. Those resources are primarily aimed at removing or reducing the application fees for clinical trials, thereby helping to remove some of the economic barriers that exist in the clinical trials. The Left can support the bill as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419103515	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419103522	Thank you for that, President. Here we have a legislative proposal with two completely different elements in one and even a legislative proposal aimed at different laws. We can support one part. The second part cannot be supported, and that is why we propose that the legislative proposal be divided into two so that we can vote on the two different proposals separately. But then on the content: The first part of the bill is about rehabilitation after being admitted to a hospital. The government is proposing a new rule which means that patients who need rehabilitation after an operation or hospitalization must be able to choose a private supplier if the municipality has not initiated rehabilitation within 7 days. I fully agree that we have a problem with rehabilitation. For many people, it is very important that they get started quickly with their training to make it a successful process, and today there is a very large variation from municipality to municipality in how long to wait. However, I do not agree with the way in which the government will solve the problem, and I fear that the proposal that is being made here will mean that, in particular, those patients who have the most complex needs will be given priority in favour of patients who have the simplest needs, because they are the ones who will be offered private services, and that is why I believe that this proposal will mean an inequality in health, regardless of the fact that the intentions are certainly good. I also think it is important that responsibility for rehabilitation continues to be anchored in the municipalities. Today we already have major problems in ensuring coherence in the effort, but if it is the individual citizen who is going to ask for who is going to provide the rehabilitation, we will have fragmented processes and we will lose the coherence that is so important for the success of the courses. We can see that for patients who need many different types of rehabilitation, physiotherapy, ergotherapy and perhaps also psychological assistance there will be virtually no real so-called free choice. So you won't be able to use this right, and that's why I think we're going to see the same thing as we've seen with the free choice in hospitals, so you're going to concentrate your efforts on those patients who are competitive to keep, to the disadvantage of those who can't use the free choice. This would distort the efforts of municipalities and increase inequalities in health. In addition, the Medical Association, Danske Patients and Dansk Eldersråd also very rightly point out that there are citizens who are not referred to rehabilitation via the hospital, but instead via their own doctor. Nor are the citizens covered by these rules, and so they will be the ones who will be given more priority on the list in the municipalities' attempts to keep the patients who can choose a private supplier instead. That's why it's our conclusion that there's clearly a need to do something to ensure a faster rehabilitation... that it's not this that's the right solution. I think it is wise to set a deadline of 7 days, but I do not think it is right to leave responsibility to the individual patient for them to choose. It is absolutely fundamental and crucial that what you do is to ensure that there is the right framework in the municipalities and the right means to ensure rapid rehabilitation, and this applies, of course, both to patients who come through the hospital and to those who come through their own doctor. Differently, we are in favour of the second part of the bill, which deals with lowering the fees for clinical research, including removing the fees for experiments carried out without influence and funding for pharmaceutical companies. After all, the bill corrects the fact that the fees have increased dramatically since the Reichsaudit required it to be some fees that reflected the costs that actually were. The legislative proposal therefore ensures that the very important non-commercial experiments can continue to be carried out, and this is extremely important, because non-commercial research is driven by some very different considerations than commercial research, namely that we should be able to make money from the research we are doing. Therefore, it can be a very important research that patients can benefit greatly from, but which will not otherwise be carried out unless we ensure that there is a good framework for doing non-commercial research. That is why I would like to conclude by repeating my call for us to divide this bill into two. It should of course be relatively simple in that there are two completely different laws that need to be amended, and in that case we will be able to support the latter part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104010	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104013	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I am actually surprised that the rapporteur mentions inequality as an argument that Enhedslisten cannot support the fact that all Danes with a rehabilitation plan in their hands are now entitled to rapid rehabilitation within 7 calendar days. It really surprises me that Enhedslisten thinks it is better for those who can afford to take out private insurance to be at the forefront of the queue, and then the others will have to wait. Because that's what's real. Then there are great geographical differences between municipalities, and I did not hear the rapporteur come up with a solution. How do we solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104057	I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Left that we have a problem, so the status quo is by no means good enough, and there is no doubt that there are patients, depending on the municipality in which they live, who are disadvantaged than others. That is why we must, of course, do something. However, as I also said, I believe that this proposal is distorted by the fact that only one group of patients will actually be able to use this right, namely those patients in whom there is a private supplier who can step in if the municipality fails. There is a group of patients who have very complex rehabilitation needs and, for example, there are virtually no ergotherapists acting in the private sector. Patients who need ergotherapy as part of their rehabilitation do not have a really free choice. That is why I think we are going to see a distortion of the community's rehabilitation efforts, and that will increase inequalities in health. Because it will be the weakest patients, those with the most complex needs, and so also the older patients, who are typically those referred to by the Service Act, who are therefore not covered by these rules, which will be given lower priority, and I think that would be a shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104203	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104204	I have to say that Enhedslisten seems to support the possibility that if you have money in your pocket, you can go out and buy yourself private health insurance, and then you can get quick rehabilitation, while those who cannot afford it must sit down at the back of the bus. I do not agree with that approach. I think that all patients, regardless of their social status and how much money you have in your pocket, should have the same right, and that is what you get: If you have a rehabilitation plan in your hand, you will also be entitled to rapid rehabilitation. Then I would also just like to say that I think it is a pity that Enhedslisten does not come up with a solution in terms of how we resolve the huge geographical differences that are out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104247	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104248	It is difficult to answer both things in one minute, but I will try to answer the last part of my second answer. For it is clear, as I said before, that I do not think we can be satisfied with the status quo. What I think is the right answer, which will also really include the most weak patients, those with the most complex needs, the elderly, is that we provide the municipalities with the resources they need. I think it is fine to insert a 7-day right, but I think it is important that the responsibility remains with the municipalities and that we ensure that there are the resources that need to be made available. Then, of course, we must demand from the municipalities that they actually deliver to all citizens. However, I believe that a right has been granted which will benefit only a small group, but which will therefore be at the expense of some other groups. I think this is really a pity, and it will increase the inequality in health.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104329	Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104330	Thank you very much. I am also surprised that the Enhedslisten will not work constructively with a proposal that would actually make it better for many of the citizens who are waiting for a long time for rehabilitation. Now I've been working on rehabilitation myself, I'm also in the municipality, and I'm here now to help improve this effort. So all I can see is that you can do better for someone. We have been working for a very long time for the municipalities to be provided with funds to ensure that they complied with these things and that it was in order in terms of quality, but there are still municipalities that do not live up to it. So I wonder why the Enhedslisten will not try to work constructively with any of the places where there might be some improvement on the way. I see it more as a resistance to private companies being able to enter, and that is what I would like to ask. Is it only because it is private companies? Another thing is also: What makes it impossible for a private company to hire ergotherapists?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104434	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104435	That was a lot of questions in one, and I will try to answer some of them at least. I agree that we need to do something about this, and I fully agree with it, and I think it is good to give patients a deadline, that is to put pressure on the municipalities and say that they have to be delivered within 7 days. But that presupposes that there is an economy that can make it possible to achieve it. I think it is clear that when we have to add so much money, there is also a clear recognition that we have not had the means to deliver on rehabilitation. But I am surprised that this problem cannot be seen by the Danish People's Party or by the Left either. We've seen it when it comes to private hospitals. What private hospitals have been interested in has been the relatively simple operations. Those patients who have not had many other diseases at the same time have been those who have had a real opportunity to make a free choice at the expense of those patients in the medical departments, for example, at the expense of some of the groups that did not have a real opportunity, and that is quite the same distortion, I think that is going to happen in this area. What are we going to do instead? Well, we have to say: a clear expectation to the municipalities that they should deliver within 7 days, provide the resources they need and have a close monitoring. And then, of course, we have to stick to the fact that it must apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104549	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104551	Well, I'm wondering why Enhedslisten has that attitude. If we look at how many municipalities it is that have not lived up to an agreement in 7 days' time, we will see that it is actually the vast majority of municipalities that are living up to this agreement. We have citizens in the municipalities who say that they were called on the way home in the taxi and were told when they could start with rehabilitation. So the municipalities can actually do the job. The money is, after all, by ensuring that there are fewer people on sickness benefits, fewer people who will need hospitalization, fewer people who need home help, etc. etc. So this can only be a win-win situation. I think it is very black on the part of the Enhedslisten. So I will take one of the questions that was not answered: is it possible for private companies to employ ergotherapists so that they can also offer ergotherapeutic rehabilitation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104638	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104640	Yes, we can only note that it does not exist today, and that is why the Ergotherapist Association also points out that they believe that this bill will do exactly what I am saying, that is to say, at the expense of patients who have the complex needs, the patients, such as: need to get an ergotherapist as part of their rehabilitation. Then I will answer one of the other questions that I did not have time to answer in the first round, namely whether it is about the fact that they are private suppliers. The municipalities can, of course, to a large extent, and they do so to a large extent today, use private suppliers. It's fine. What I think is important is, of course, that the municipalities still have the main responsibility to ensure that there is coherence so that we do not have this highly fragmented effort, which unfortunately we often see when it comes to healthcare. I think we will see more of that when you make such a solution as you do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104729	Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104732	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Stine Brix how it can increase inequality by giving all patients the option of tax-financed free choice to choose a private supplier themselves, i.e. that it is not only those who can afford it, but that it is all because it is now tax-financed. How can this increase inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104753	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104755	I can repeat what I have said before. That will increase inequality, because one thing is that you have a right on paper, another is whether you have a right in reality. What I am convinced of and for which I can also read myself, among other things. At the Ergotherapist Association and actually also the FOA, I don't think I remember all of them being that it won't be everyone who has a really free choice because there isn't an offer for them. This is particularly true of patients who have complex needs. It could be ergotherapy I've pointed out. It could also be complex needs where you need many different efforts at the same time, where there is no market, as it were. It may also be in those parts of the country where there are otherwise no private suppliers. One can imagine that the private suppliers will be primarily around the large cities where there are many patients to offer something. This means that what I am looking at is whether there is really a possibility of free choice or whether it is only on paper. I believe that this is the first and then it will mean that we will see an inequality in health, because the municipalities will give priority to the patients they risk losing, the income they risk losing. It is, moreover, completely parallel to the development we have seen in relation to the free choice of hospital.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104909	Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419104913	It sounds as if the rapporteur thinks that it increases inequality because there is an opportunity that is not available. Even if it doesn't put anyone at a disadvantage, but because you can't use it, it increases inequality. I think that's a little illogical. That's one thing. The second point is that it is clear that there is not a market today because there are so few who have the opportunity to use the private suppliers. Now that there will be an opportunity, there will be a market, and then there will be many more private suppliers, and then all those who have not been able to afford it before can have the opportunity to use a private supplier so that everyone can have rapid rehabilitation. How is that an inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105000	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105003	I do not agree that it will not harm anyone. I believe that this would be detrimental to some, including, as I say, to the group I mentioned just now, those who have complex needs where there will be no private suppliers interested in making an offer. It may not be worth it, it is too expensive to do it, it does not exist today, but also in relation to the other group I have mentioned earlier, namely those who receive rehabilitation through the Service Act. They are the ones who are referred through their own doctor. They're not even covered by this right either. This means that the municipalities will be in a situation where they will give priority to it is a little strange to answer someone who is standing behind it, but that is quite okay; I know that May-May-Britten Kattrup is going on as the next group for which there is competition, the group for which the government is creating a free market, at the expense of those for which there is no free choice or who do not have a real free choice. That is why it will harm the last two groups, the most vulnerable groups, those with the greatest needs and, incidentally, the elderly patients as well. I think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105106	Thank you. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105108	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party supports this bill because we want to combat the inequality that exists between citizens today, because the municipalities are doing the municipal task of rehabilitation as differently as they do. That is unacceptable. That's why we support this bill. We do not support this bill to market the rehabilitation area. We do not support this in order for it to be a self-defense table in relation to the private providers. We support this bill because we want to put pressure on the 98 municipalities that we want to make stronger and more robust and to deliver a higher, unambiguous quality for all citizens, whether it is citizens who have a need for rehabilitation at a complicated level or whether it is more simple. We want all 98 municipalities to take this task. My question to the rapporteur is about the rapporteur making it sound as if this bill is going to lead to a distortion and only a distortion. We in the Socialist Group are seeing a distortion today, and we want to deal with this distortion.). Because we do not want an A and B team between the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105233	Yes, please! Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105235	That was almost a new rapporteur's speech. I would say that it is indeed the reality that there is a roof-top table for private suppliers. You choose who you want to take in. Well, that's the reality. This also applies to private hospitals today. And that is part of the problem, for example. do not deal with complex patients, or do not want to accept a patient, but then you can avoid doing so. Therefore, I think we should look at the experience we have with an extended free choice of hospital, where we can see that it is first and foremost the patients with the least complicated sufferings that are the most resourceful patients who take advantage of it. And I think there's a risk that the same thing will happen again. I am actually a little surprised that the Social Democratic Party did not mention it at all. On the other hand, the Danish People's Party did not raise the concerns raised from among others. The Medical Association, Danske Eldersråd, Danske Patientser and I also think KL, that there is also a large group of patients who are not covered at all and who, in the same way as those patients who are not really able to use the free choice, are at risk of being given priority down. And that is why there is an opportunity for us to see a distortion. I fully agree with the rapporteur that we must do something, and I have said so many times. We cannot be satisfied with the status quo. I just don't think this is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105355	Thank you. Now, if you'll just push in and I'll be able to handle it more easily from up here. But here you go, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105400	Thank you. Yes, the Social Democrats want those who are referred to by practitioners and specialists to be included, otherwise we do not have equality. That is quite correct, as some of the consultations have clarified. I just want to say that to me, this isn't a rooftop table. The municipalities have 7 days to provide the municipal service in this area. This is what we in the Socialist Group want to see done in 100 per cent. of cases. It's our wish. There is no reason why the municipality cannot deliver within 7 days. There may be some very special reasons that apply, and then it is like a special situation, and then you certainly do not impair the patient's rehabilitation course, because then you can go out somewhere else. It's just to shoot an arrow through it. This is a question of reducing inequality; this is not a question of creating more inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105456	Well, I think the intentions are good. My assessment of this proposal is that it will have the second effect, that it will increase inequality, and I share that assessment with the Ergotherapist Association, which acts in this area on a daily basis. My wish is also that all municipalities should be able to deliver within seven days. I think we could achieve that much better by saying that it is a duty for the municipalities and that we are ensuring that the resources they need to carry out that task are available. And that is what I think should be done in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105524	Thank you. Then it's Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105526	Thank you. What actually made me ask for the floor was when the rapporteur mentioned it with inequality and this would be detrimental to the weakest. I'd like that to be clarified, because I'm having a little trouble seeing it. If the municipalities cannot live up to providing rehabilitation within 7 days and then you get the opportunity to get a private supplier to deliver, so you can get started with your rehabilitation after 7 days, how can it be to the detriment of the weakest?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105606	Well, it can be if there is really no option to choose anything else, either because no one wants to make the rehabilitation offer you need, or because you cannot make the rehabilitation offer you need, or because you have rehabilitation through another paragraph where you cannot choose at all. The two large groups will not really have a free choice. What happens next? The municipalities will then concentrate their efforts on those groups that are competitive. That is what we have seen when it comes to the extended free choice of hospital. This would be detrimental to those groups that are not really included, and I therefore believe that we will see an increase in health inequalities. And I believe that there will certainly be a group that will be able to get to it more quickly than they are today, but it will be those with the simplest needs, the strongest of the patients, and it will be at the expense of the elderly, the patients who have complex needs, the patients who are the weakest in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105707	Here you go, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105708	It is the case today that there is a great deal of variation in how long municipalities are about starting rehabilitation. Some municipalities are 4 days on it, some municipalities are 31 days on it. Does the rapporteur not think that it is inequality in health for the individual citizen that some have to wait up to 31 days, while others can come to after 4 days?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105732	Yes, it is unacceptable that there is such a big difference, because we know that it is very important for how your future progress is, how well you recover. It is very important that you get started with rehabilitation quickly. And for that reason, it is also really a pity if the consequence here is that those with the most complex needs or the patients referred through their own doctor it is, for example. Typically older people who fall at home are given priority at the end of the queue, because then they will be particularly affected by the inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105805	Thank you. And then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. Then it is the next rapporteur, Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419105813	Thank you. This is a very good suggestion. Firstly, it gives citizens better opportunities for more rapid rehabilitation after a disease or accident. Rapid rehabilitation is of great importance, i.e. that the affected person can regain his ability to function and return to normal everyday life. It means a lot to the individual and it means something to the economy. Secondly, this bill strengthens citizens' freedom of choice. It is to be expected from the draft law that more private players will be placed on the market and therefore more to choose from. The more there is to choose from, the greater the competition between suppliers, which, in terms of experience, creates better quality and innovation. And, of course, we must ensure that quality is in order. However, the prerequisite for the citizens' opportunity for rapid rehabilitation and free choice is that citizens know about the free choice. It is therefore important that we follow up on the fact that information for citizens on free elections is available and easily accessible. The Liberal Alliance would like to see more freedom of choice, both in this area and in general. And unlike Enhedslisten, I believe that it gives more equality and that it offers better opportunities for everyone, not only those who can afford it, and then it also gives geographical equality. Another part of this proposal is to ease the fees for clinical trials. The aim is to strengthen the development and improvement of new medicines and treatments and make it more attractive for both Danish and foreign researchers to place their experiments in Denmark. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419110003	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419110008	Thank you. As has been mentioned, L 212 deals with two very different things. The first is about free choice of rehabilitation, and the second is about fee reductions for clinical trials on medicinal products. First of all, with regard to the free choice of rehabilitation, it has been established here today that there is a need for faster access to the start-up of rehabilitation. For rapid and effective rehabilitation can be essential to return to normal and good everyday life, and this is of course central to patients, but also to relatives. So I will be brief and say that the alternative says yes to the proposal for the sake of patients and for the sake of the relatives. The second part of the bill deals with non-commercial clinical trials and the creation of better framework conditions for clinical trials of medicinal products in Denmark. In the alternative, we want to support research, not least in non-commercial clinical trials, and we want to support that there will be the best possible conditions for carrying out research. We therefore support L 212, the entire legislative proposal, including the last part, because it is about making it easier for the research in which the industry does not have an interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419110149	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419110156	In the Radical Left we have looked at the bill and we think it contains some fine elements. It is quite reasonable to look at the conditions for rehabilitation. This is the case, among other things, when we can see how much difference there is between waiting times in the municipalities. Some citizens experience that it takes far too long for their rehabilitation to begin. There are simply municipalities where it is just not good enough. Where people in Lemvig, Hjørring, Faxe and Solrød wait on average between 4 and 7 days for rehabilitation, as a citizen of Slagelse, Egedal, Fredericia and Herlev, they must wait somewhere between 25 and 31 days for a similar training programme. We know that it is important to get started quickly after a medical course, so this bill is a step in the right direction. However, like the Medical Association and Danske Patients and Danske Eldersråd, we are very aware that patients referred to rehabilitation by general practitioners and specialist practitioners under the Social Services Act should also be covered by the same right to rehabilitation. That is why I am very pleased that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also raised this issue in the past. We will follow up on this in the next committee and very much in cooperation with the Danish People's Party. We need to ask the Minister a few questions, because I think that the reply given by the Ministry to the hearings from these associations is a little woolly, and I cannot quite figure out what the big problem is, but hopefully we will find out in the next committee. It sounds like you're pretty positive all around, so we think it looks really good. So all in all, this is a really fine bill, and the Radical Left is positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419110400	Thank you. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419110405	Thank you. In the SF, we also believe that it is important to speed up rehabilitation as quickly as possible for those citizens who need it. But it is also important to clarify that rehabilitation is not just rehabilitation. For example, rehabilitation after a broken femur is different from rehabilitation after a brain injury, and even for patients with brain damage there may even be very large differences in what is important for rehabilitation. I think that this proposal suffers from a certain deficiency, namely the answer to the question of why there are waiting times for rehabilitation. Do we have the necessary capacity for the growing need for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, and do we not least have the right skills? The rehabilitation of citizens with, for example, brain damage is far from being only physical, but is also very much cognitive. And rehabilitation of heart patients can also be about diet. I have no doubt that the municipalities are still working hard to meet the growing demand, such as: As a result of the fact that more and more elderly people are going to need rehabilitation, I have doubts as to whether all the municipalities will ever be able to put together the necessary teams to take care of the many different rehabilitation tasks. Unfortunately, the proposal to leave part of the tasks to private practitioners hardly solves the problem for two reasons. Ergotherapists, who are very important professionals in relation to a number of rehabilitation efforts, do not have the option of simply creating private treatment services. I also agree with the Medical Association that referring patients from the general practitioners or citizens, who the municipality itself estimates have a rehabilitation need, is at risk of being put in the back of the queue, and that is quite simply wrong. We have not participated in the negotiations on this proposal in the SF, but if we had been invited, we would certainly have proposed a real action plan in which we also gave ourselves the opportunity to reconsider our efforts. We agree that improvements are needed. We just don't believe that the solution is more private choice offers. We have no comment to make on the part relating to fee reductions. We would very much like to vote in favour of this. Therefore, there is also a call from me to divide this proposal into two parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419110634	Thank you. Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419110639	Thank you. The proposal here is a follow-up to the 2018 Finance Law Agreement. One initiative in the bill concerns the free choice of rehabilitation for citizens who are discharged from a hospital with a rehabilitation plan, where it is suggested that citizens should be able to choose a private supplier if the municipality cannot begin rehabilitation within 7 days of discharge. As it is today, there is great variation in waiting time from municipality to municipality, up to 31 days in the municipality with longest waiting time. The initiative here is to ensure that citizens avoid a long waiting period for a rehabilitation course and that they are given the best conditions to regain their ability to function as quickly as possible and to return to a normal everyday life. The second initiative of the draft law concerns fee facilitations aimed at improving the framework conditions for clinical trials of medicinal products. It is proposed to eliminate or reduce the fees for some of the trials that have a particular impact on the development of new drugs, therapies, including immunotherapy. With a reduction in the economic barrier to the approval and conduct of clinical trials, it will become more attractive for Danish and foreign researchers to place their experiments in Denmark. This should help to ensure Danish patients the latest and best possible treatment offers. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419110815	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419110819	Thank you for the comments and also for the positive reception of the draft law by most people. I am glad that there are so many who support the elements of the bill and, above all, I am happy on behalf of patients. Because I believe that this bill is a significant step forward in terms of the safety of the individual, that is to say, on top of a good course of treatment, a quick and good rehabilitation will also be ensured. Together with Dansk Folkeparti with the Danish Finance Act 2018, we have allocated 2 billion from the government. kr. over the next four years to improve the health of the Danes, and this bill contains some of the concrete elements that form part of the Finance Act. This applies both to strengthening research in relation to taxing and charging non-commercial experiments, and in which we have also subsequently gone a step further with the Life science plan, because we know that it is important to ensure research into medicinal products, the development of new therapies. And, as the DF's rapporteur also said, it can, for example, do so. Specifically, immunotherapy. The many great advances we see in the area from Danish hospitals could help to support it. This also helps to ensure better patient treatment. That is why the bill we are discussing today is very much an expression of the political agreement that we entered into with the Danish People's Party as part of the Finance Act, which will help to strengthen our healthcare system. The rules that we are laying down now, which are actually a new patient right, help to ensure that the individual has to wait less time for treatment. It means something when you're sick. This means something in relation to the patient's right to health in general, about the right to rapid treatment. It also matters when we talk about rehabilitation. It is a matter of ensuring that you are able to return as soon as possible to a situation where you regain your ability to function and thus you can also return to your normal everyday life from before surgery and from before illness. If we wait too long, we know that we risk that the way back to everyday life will be too long and difficult and that, for many, we lose some of the ability we had in the past. This is true whether you are young or old. The rehabilitation task has been with the municipalities since the municipal reform, with few exceptions, and the municipalities play a crucial role in ensuring closeness and security in our health provision. It is therefore also surprising that we see so much variation across the country in terms of providing good rehabilitation on time to the citizens. I simply do not think that it is right for us to see so much variation across the country, and I am also quite sure that with the legislative proposal we are discussing today, we will ensure that the pressure on the municipalities is brought to bear, that is to say, to provide rapid and timely rehabilitation for the citizens, in order to ensure that good rehabilitation is followed up on a successful course of treatment. In my view, the proposal makes cash demands on the municipalities in order to ensure that health services, which mean something to citizens in the near health care sector, also become even stronger. This is also a clear signal that if the municipalities, as we in the government want, have a greater role to play in health, then they are obliged to do so. That is why it also means that we must be able to provide rehabilitation more quickly so that the individual does not risk that a lack of rehabilitation does not really mean that the elderly citizen cannot return to his own home or need care and help, or that the younger citizen who is still associated with the labour market finds that the period of sickness is dragging on because rehabilitation does not get started or that the ability to get back into the labour market is completely lost. I also welcome the positive statements that I read out of the consultation answers, which basically point out that this is an important and a real legislative proposal. This also applies to the whole part of the issue of charging for non-commercial trials, thus removing some of the economic barriers to promoting public-private cooperation which may have an impact on patient treatment and which can help to support innovation in Denmark. It will also be of benefit to patients, who are very much the beneficiaries of the best medicines entering patient treatment quickly. Several of the rapporteurs will then be asked a question, and of course we will also have to answer and deepen this in the committee procedure from the Ministry and from my side. There is the fact that there are also elements here in relation to the Social Services Act. There, I think, one might just quote the Danish Elders' Council, which at the end of its hearing calls for this message to be passed on to the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs for assessment in relation to the corresponding adaptation of Section 86 of the Social Services Act. I believe that this message has been passed on by several of the rapporteurs, and I will ensure that it is passed on to my fellow minister. But it is also to say that this is not the legislative proposal we are debating today. Today we are dealing with the Health Act, where we are introducing a patient right which will be a significant improvement for patients in terms of guaranteeing the right to rapid and qualified rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419111401	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419111420	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419111425	Thank you very much, President. We need to talk about fees in relation to interpretation in health care. I'm sure a lot of people will ask if it belongs anywhere. Wouldn't that help create A and B teams? Will this not help to create inequality between Danish populations? On the socialist side, we have recognised that we have to take the spoon in the other hand when it comes to integration in Denmark. We have not done well enough, and the fact that we have been too poor for the integration of groups into Danish society has helped to create A and B teams and inequality within Danish society. A common language is a common prerequisite for joint discussion, and joint discussion is a prerequisite for cohesion, and that is exactly what we are pursuing as social democrats in the welfare model and the welfare state that we would like to have. That's why this is really, really important, and this is important and crucial. The government has put forward a bill and there are two elements to what I would like to address. One element is that the government proposes that there should be a fee for foreign language interpretation in health care if you have been resident in Denmark for more than 3 years. A rule is introduced, and that is that if you, as a person who has lived in Denmark for longer than three years, refuse to make use of the interpreter provided by the regions in the health care sector, you have to pay a hundred per cent for the interpreter you want to use. We in the Social Democratic Party think that both are right and proper, but there is, of course, a need to look at exceptions. The government has written that there are exceptions and there is a need to clarify the exceptions to the third reading. It is written in the bill that there may be an exception, a derogation in relation to age or reduced physical or mental capacity, where one is unable to acquire or use acquired Danish knowledge respectively. It is also said that the children who are hospitalized do not have to pay for the interpretation, and we can also see in some of the hearings and the Minister's answers that if they are terminal procedures, that is, procedures in which a citizen is going to die, they also want to make an exemption. These exceptions are really crucial. This also applies to mental illness. All the health rapporteurs met a deployment last week in the Health Committee. No, it was this week that told us about ptsd, and how the learning ability of ptsd patients, the ability to express themselves linguistically, is very inhibited and marked by their ptsd. It merely shows that if we are to have a proper healthcare system and the right quality, we also have to understand that there are groups for which language learning is a very special challenge. This is an area and a subject in which it is clear that, as Social Democratic Health rapporteur, I have looked very carefully at the answers to the hearings. We want a strong and robust and equal health care. We do not want to print anyone in our health services, but we also want an equal society where you are also faced with demands and expectations when you come to Denmark and you are here for a long time. In our major immigration issue from February we have mentioned exactly the element presented by the government in the bill here that if you have been here for 3 years, there are clear expectations that you can use the Danish language at a level so that you can communicate. This is creating an incentive to have this cohesion in our society, as I started by saying. That is why we can support the legislative proposal in relation to the fees and to the own-payment, but there are issues and points in the proposal in relation to the derogations that we need to be more keen on towards third reading. It is also very difficult to see what the level of fees should be, as stated in the draft law, and we will of course have to discuss this, because the level of fees obviously means something to the opportunity that people have to pay for this. I would like to conclude by saying that some people are asking if a dancing machine should be introduced when you enter the hospital. No, that's not what's planned. You get the treatment, the doctors judge whether to interpret, you get treatment completely in the same way as today, but those who have been here for more than three years, who have not learned Danish and who do not fall within the exceptions, get a levy that the regions send afterwards. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill with the comments I have now made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112034	Thank you. There are some comments. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112037	Thank you for that and also thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am really pleased that the Socialists can support both the fee and the self-payment, but I still have to ask the Socialists a question, I think, because that is a surprising announcement. A year ago, Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen to Altinget on a similar proposal that it was deeply questionable. I would just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur: what has changed from being deeply concerned about fees and self-payment for interpretation, if you have been in Denmark for more than three years, to the fact that it is now both important and crucial, as I heard the rapporteur say?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112128	Thank you for the question. There are two things I want to say. One is that the resolution we were discussing at the time is not the same as the legislative proposal that is here. The second thing is that we in the Social Democratic Party have made a very thorough assessment of the integration efforts in Denmark. That is where I say that we have concluded that we need to take the spoon in the other hand; we need to create incentives; we need to ensure that when citizens come here, the linguistic prerequisites become an area where demands are made, otherwise we will not have the cohesion in our society that I was talking about before. That's the reason for it. This expressed the Social Democratic Party very clearly in February, when we presented our great alien initiative, which is called Justice and Realism. It says quite clearly that we have wanted to demand an own payment, a fee if you have been in the country for more than three years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112234	Here you go, Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112236	I recognise, of course, that everyone has the right to be wiser, but I do not think the rapporteur quite answers what has changed. I understand that an analysis has been carried out, but there must nevertheless be something important that has changed from being deeply concerned, as the rapporteur called it at the time, that such a proposal is now both important and crucial. What exactly has changed for the rapporteur since I now understand that work has been done and put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112311	Well, it is that we have looked at our integration efforts and we have recognised that it is not working. Something has to be done completely differently. And there we have come up with a whole series of initiatives that we believe we need to take in order to be sure that we will have the cohesion that will help to support our welfare societies in the future. The exceptions to which groups would then not have to pay a fee are also crucial. Because we do not want to help put pressure on the economy of those who belong to the most vulnerable and vulnerable groups here. And there we think the government's initiative, as we can read it, looks fine, but there are clearly some areas we need to discuss more carefully and write out more clearly so that there is no doubt as to which groups this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112414	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112417	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur said that he had read the answers carefully. After all, there is a large pile, and not a single one is said to indicate that this bill is a good idea. If I should just quote one of them, namely the Medical Association's, then your chairman, Mr. Andreas Rudkøbing states that, in the extreme, the interpretation fee can cost lives if the doctor and the patient do not understand each other properly. Doctors also fear that fees can lead to people missing from the doctor or treatment and children being used as interpreters. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen did not respond at all to the concerns expressed in one hearing after another for what this interpretation fee can mean for health and health care. I would really like to hear a comment on that, because I think that is quite central to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112521	Yes, I have read that, and I actually have a great deal of sympathy for it, but I also think that this bill sets out a framework which actually provides some of the answers. It is still the doctor who decides whether to interpret. It is the doctor and the nurse and all the other health professionals who do not set up anything that is a restriction before giving the patient the treatment that is assessed to be the right one. All the acute cases are exempt from this, and they've been here all along. In relation to whether or not someone is missing, it is important to say that nobody has to pay upfront. No one has to pay until a treatment can be repaired. It is a question of obtaining a collection subsequently from the region. In relation to the interpretation of children, the Socialist position is quite clear. The law today is perfectly clear. No one under 18 is allowed to interpret. There are some who may be allowed by the doctor to interpret, from 15 years of age, if the doctor considers that the severity is not there. So, Mrs Stine Brix, a great many of these things have been answered here, and that is within the framework. But the Socialist overall assessment is that we need to create some other incentives for people to acquire the Danish language better and faster than what is the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112645	There's one more time. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112647	Thank you. It is particularly in this area that it has actually been tried before, and about the experience of that time one can also read in the consultation answers, namely that it was no longer possible to go to treatment or to agreements; it was that children's interpreters were used. That is why I think it is quite easy for the health rapporteur to simply say that it will not happen again when both the operators, the regions that have it and all the organisations that represent the staff and patients say that it is the experience and that it is their assessment that it will happen again. So I would really like to hear the rapporteur: is there a single health professional argument for this proposal, because not a single health professional argument is being presented for this to be a good idea in all the consultation answers we have received?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112745	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112747	But Mrs Stine Brix has heard it correctly. I did not put forward any health arguments. I said that the social democratic assessment is that we have to take the spoon in the other hand in terms of integration. We need to create new incentives to learn the Danish language so that we can have cohesion in Danish society, as we want from the Social Democrats. In relation to children's interpretations, that is not an option today. So I do not understand why Mrs Stine Brix is bringing this up and that the hearings are doing so, because the law is completely clear. We have even led this legislation by the Socialist side, and we have made it very clear, including in our immigration initiative. This must not be a consequence of it; we must learn more about it when it comes to defaults, and that is why we must, of course, carry out monitoring in this area as well. We do not want inequality to increase, but poor integration, poor language skills are factors of inequality in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112850	Thank you. Please keep to your speaking time. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112853	Thank you. I think this proposal is really, really good. It is a cornerstone of good integration to acquire the Danish language and especially to do so within a few years. We have seen examples in the media recently, for example. people from Somalia who had lived in Denmark for up to 20 years and still could not basically Danish. I am glad to hear the things the rapporteur brings to an equal society; expectations that one should be able to manage in Danish when one is here for a long time; the importance of the Danish language. But I just get a little confused when I look at what the rapporteur has said in the past. The rapporteur has among other things: said: "To do away with equal access to health care by referring to the language is a slippery slope. So does the rapporteur think that this is a slanting plan or that the legislative proposal we are looking at now is a really, really good thing for integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419112947	I do not think it is only I who think that the social democracy has been very clear even in its language, in terms of what we want from integration and in terms of integration efforts in the future. I think that our February presentation, which, as I said, is fair and realistic, is very specific, and that is exactly what we are talking about here. So what is the starting point for my rapporteur's speech is, as I have also said several times to Mrs Stine Brix, that we need to do something else in order to make integration work in Denmark, and that integration depends on many things and many elements, including the fact that we have to do something about it. This. And we in the Social Democratic Party are of the opinion that it is a cornerstone of making our society work well in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113042	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113043	I am glad of that, because something as elementary as a pillar should not be so much in doubt. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: what has made the Social Democratic Party go from having the view that it was a slippery slope to now thinking that it is a pillar? It is, of course, a relatively large shift of not a very long time. It is not much more than a year ago that the rapporteur called it a slippery slope.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113108	I cannot really express it more clearly than I have. What is the starting point for our position on this bill is that we have considered that the integration efforts that are taking place in Denmark today are not sufficiently good. It helps to create an inequality in our society, and it is not the society we want from the Socialist side. I therefore think that the government has done a good job here in making exceptions, in relation to who should pay a fee and that is something I look forward to discussing, also towards third reading. That is why it must be constructive in it, namely that those citizens who have a real opportunity to make greater demands and have greater expectations of themselves in relation to learning the Danish language must do so, and then there are some for whom life is difficult and who have been brought into a very vulnerable situation, and there, of course, we as a society should not make the same demands. This is really, really crucial for me as the Social Democrat Health Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113212	Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113215	Thank you. Both the health rapporteur and I have a medical background, and I guess we have both tried to find ourselves in a situation where it was difficult to communicate with a patient precisely because of the language barriers. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that the inability to communicate can be fatal to the treatment that the patient needs and, moreover, also significantly delay the doctor's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113244	I fully agree with Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen that is absolutely correct and I myself have been in that situation many times. I've tried it in very, very acute situations, and I've also tried it in scheduled situations. That's why I think we should make sure this is balanced right. We must ensure that it is the doctors who still have the authority, the right and the duty to judge whether or not to interpret. They are the ones who have to assess whether the interpretation is sufficiently good and this is an entirely independent problem, as Mrs Kirsten Normann also mentioned. So, yes, there must be interpretation. And we cannot build a high level of health care with high patient safety without making very high demands on interpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113329	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113331	In fact, I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees with me that this proposal that patients are at risk of having to pay for the interpretation themselves will affect the very weakest citizens, who are also the very poorest citizens, and that it will probably have the consequence that precisely these citizens will opt out of the interpretation paid because they simply cannot afford it, and that this could result in us ending up with child interpretation anyway, because there are no alternatives • that we can end up with a wrong interpretation, because we simply do not have an alternative in the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113411	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113412	Thank you for the question. We don't end Children's interpretation in Denmark that's not how it is And it's the doctor who faces the patient who tells who to interpret. That is quite clear. There are some who can be allowed to do it from the age of 15 if the doctor feels that the seriousness of this matter is not so great, and then you will be able to do it, but otherwise it cannot be done. I would like to say to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen: the weakest citizens and patients are exempt here, and we in the Socialist Group want to engage in a dialogue with the Minister for Health and all the parties here to find out: how do we describe this in such a way that the weakest and most vulnerable are excluded?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113459	Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113502	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Social Democrats' rapporteur on the fact that a plate is now being turned over and that we are now in favour of the draft law on self-payment for interpreters' assistance. Once it was said that it was after 7 years in Denmark, and it was deleted when you were in government, but now you obviously want to. However, I am also concerned, particularly about all the exceptions which the Minister has not only included in the draft law and which the Socialist rapporteur also mentions every time. Because if it turns out we can exempt 99 percent. So, by people who have been three years in the country, are we making integration better? Is that what makes people learn Danish? I would like to ask Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen: If you are mentally ill, can you not learn Danish? Is there not also a requirement that you should learn Danish if you have a mental illness? Is it the same thing that you cannot learn Danish if you are schizophrenic or have depression? Where's the limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113614	I don't see where the limit goes, but thank you for the question. We need to discuss that limit politically. I can only relate to the choice of words that the government has put out in the bill, and it says: or mental ability to function makes them unable to acquire and use acquired Danish knowledge. We had a deputation visit this week, and it was professionals who work with people in the most vulnerable situation and mental crisis, for example, it was ptsd. They made clear to the Health Committee what the challenges of this group of patients are. However, I am very confident that the Minister for Health and the Health Committee and the Health rapporteurs will discuss this in a proper way and have these exceptions put in place so that there is no doubt. However, the Socialist heart says that those who are most vulnerable and vulnerable and fragile in our society must have a very special eye, including in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113728	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113729	Thank you very much. But that is exactly what worries me, because we often hear both the Left and the Social Democrats approaching the Danish People's Party's policy in one area, but we get so many exceptions that we water down the actual one. In fact, you only come with a signal saying, "Try to see what we're doing." However, when we come to the minimum rules or derogations, we are not at all in favour of the same beat, because I believe that we will actually go in different directions when we start talking about what exceptions there should be and when we should free some people from paying their interpreters' assistance. We believe that when you come to Denmark, you should acquire the Danish language, regardless of whether you also have a suffering. It's important. But yes, there are some who are in an acute, difficult situation that must be exempted. I would just like to know if the Social Democratic Party would also support this. A lot of people get a ptsd disease, but we've actually also heard about doctors who signed that they had the diagnosis, even though the person didn't suffer from it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113829	Yes, please! Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113831	After all, we also have rules in relation to, for example, illness, which allows people to obtain a residence permit in Denmark for reasons where lower requirements can be said. There's got to be a connection in these things, too. On the other hand, I think it will be very interesting in the negotiations we are about to have with the Minister for Health to hear where the Danish People's Party will lie down. Is it really a question that the Danish People's Party will make sure that those who are mentally ill pay a fee for interpreting in the discussion with the psychiatrist who is in charge of their treatment? I think what is being said here by the Danish People's Party sounds very, very strange to me. We would like to have a proper discussion, and I think that the government's proposal is a sensible and good move for further discussion, and we look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113923	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419113925	Thank you. I almost feel sorry for the rapporteur, who is currently being shot at from all sides. However, I would like to hear about something, because the rapporteur said in his speech that health care should now be used as an incentive to learn Danish. I would like to hear the rapporteur on the subject that we have just raised in the debate: does the rapporteur recognise what most of the consultation answers describe, namely that it is the most vulnerable and vulnerable and economically cramped, this legislative proposal hits, for example, because it often affects the environment. is traumatized?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419114008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419114009	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. I'd say I'm comfortable getting shot at. It is good to be a politician and to have a case that you can both explain and defend yourself. That's how it is here in the Assembly Hall. We are of the opinion in the Social Democratic Party and I say again that we have to take the spoon in the other hand. It does not work well enough in terms of integration. And we need to send out a clear signal that we need to learn Danish, also to facilitate contact and dialogue with our health services. But it is really, really essential for the Social Democratic Party that there are exceptions to this rule and that the exceptions should contain exactly those we want to take care of most because they have a very special concern and protection challenge. And the legal text here says that it may be because of age that it may be because of reduced physical or mental capacity. And these are parents who have children to be treated in our healthcare system. And there is an answer that this also applies to the terminal processes, in other words, where patients are dying. It has not been discussed yet, I must say to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. I hope that the alternative will take part in this concrete and constructive debate on how to safeguard those who are the weakest. I'm standing up for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419114134	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419114137	We would always like to take part in a discussion on this. We agree that learning Danish is important. It is just the question whether health care should be used as an incentive to learn Danish. Another question I would like to put to the rapporteur is that it is pointed out in the consultation answers that it can actually be risked that this will later trigger health care services, that it will cost something, because there may be some who are mistreated, misdiagnosed or do not do what they are asked to do by their doctor. Does the rapporteur recognise that this could, at a later stage, trigger health care services?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419114220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419114221	Thank you for the question. We must, of course, pay close attention to this, because a change such as this one should not turn out to be counterproductive. We have things we want to achieve by supporting this bill. It is better integration, and it is not a disadvantage in health care. It is still the individual physician and health professionals who accept the patient in exactly the same way as today. You run through exactly the same course of treatment, investigation and other things. Then there is the fact that if you do not fall within an exemption group and have been here for more than 3 years, there is a fee which will be charged once you have returned home. It is the regulatory framework, as the legislation here sets it up. We can nod to that and say it's okay, because this serves a great purpose when it comes to making our society more united.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419114317	Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419114320	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we fully agree that good integration presupposes that one can speak Danish, and we also fully agree that we must demand that one can. Far, by far, the vast majority can, after being in Denmark for 3 years, but then there is a group that cannot. The rapporteur has said a great many times that we must exempt the very vaguest and that the Social Democrats will work on this and fight for it in the future. But isn't it a very, very weak group that is left if you can't Danish after 3 years? So I have a really, really hard time seeing that it is not already an extremely weak group. I would like the rapporteur to try to say a little about who he sees back, so to speak, when we have finished exempting.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419114423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419114423-2	Thank you for the question. I would say that this question contains a great deal of assumption on the part of the Radical Left, and if I am going to answer the question, I must also start to assume a great deal. It doesn't suit me, and it doesn't usually lie with me. I could of course ask Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen: what is it that makes the Radical Left think that those who, after three years, cannot have enough Danish and who do not have a disease, a weakness or a vulnerability in their lives should be vulnerable? I simply do not understand that, because I think that the exceptions help to pick out the groups we can predict to be vulnerable. So my answer must be: there are probably some who have not felt that the incentive was strong enough. They may have spent their time in something different in Denmark than acquiring the language and thereby giving themselves the possibility of a better connection with and stronger affiliation to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419114531	Thank you. There are no more comments. The next is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419114548	This is one of these proposals that often raises a debate. One might wonder a little about the problem when we live in a society where we are very dependent on each other. We live in a society where communication is the most important thing between two people and then you come to a country without wanting to learn the language or without trying to learn the language, we think we have to take a stand on it. That is also why we believe that if you have been three years in the country, and now it is in the context of health care, you should be able to learn Danish precisely because we are providing Danish education but, in fact, more than half choose not to go to it. So there are people who choose not to learn Danish, whether they have a mental illness or whatever else it may be. I also hear from people who ask: What about illiterate people? Illiteracy, shouldn't they be able to learn Danish? We're not saying they should be able to write after the legendary dictionary. I had a father who could neither write nor read, but he could make himself understood in both German, English, Swedish and Danish. Of course you can; it depends on how you learn it. We live in a society in which, of course, it is important that we can make ourselves understandable. In 2015, 122 million were spent in the healthcare sector. kr. for interpretation, in 2016 it had increased to 150 million. kr. Does anyone want to guess what the amount was in 2017? I expect we might be able to tell you that, because it will soon be necessary to have some collection on it. The minister is shaking his head. Then we'll get it at another time, but we shouldn't guess that it's over 150 million. kr. In 2018, the amount will be even higher. Every day we talk about priorities in health care, and I would like this money to be used to treat people rather than to interpret people who do not want to learn Danish. We know that all municipalities offer language teaching, we know that there are very many people who do not show up, and we also know that there are many who do not have the same interest in being part of Danish society in the same way as everyone else or in respecting the legislation as there is. Over the last few years, we have also seen greater and greater challenges. I wonder, for example. in the case of tele-interpreting, which we agreed on 8-10 years ago, because then you could get the best interpreter in the field, but that has not been fully used. There are still many places in hospitals or in general practitioners where the teleinterpretation which could make it all a little cheaper has not been used. You've just kept going. We have seen interpreters who could employ two words in the language in which they should interpret. I have spoken to interpreters who have been rejected by those who were to be interpreted either because they were women or because they were of another religious belief. That is also wrong. So when we went to the financial law negotiations last year in the field of health and said that we must have done something about the entire interpretation area, that we want to have a registration and certification of the interpreters, and that we want something to happen if we opt out of an interpreter, as is said here in the proposal, and we want there to be an own payment, so you also send a signal that to be part of this society you must learn Danish. These are some of the things we think are important. There are a lot of people, including in the hearing answers, who say it's a problem, and when they come in, they can't understand, but if we just continue, no matter where, to say that here you can get free interpretation, it's like peeing in your pants, it's warming in the moment you're being interpreted, but as soon as you walk out the door, you don't know a word of Danish. Former rapporteurs have said that they have worked in health care. I certainly have, and I looked after some people who had lived in Denmark for 30-40 years, but who couldn't say it when they went to the bathroom or when they were hungry. You couldn't call for interpreter 24 hours a day, because you only do that in connection with the doctor, so how do you understand the rest of the time, or when you walk out of the door of health care, you get out into Danish society where it's important you can make yourself and speak Danish and understand Danish. I am also surprised that it is now only in the field of health, but I am glad that there is now a majority, but, as I said earlier, we will of course also go through the exceptions, because if we read this, it is just before we can exempt most people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115116	Thank you. Then there are a few comments. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115120	Thank you. I have different questions. First of all, I would like to know whether the Danish People's Party believes it is important that we live up to the disability convention in this area. That's one question. Another question relates to the fact that it is the doctors who have to assess whether the patient needs an interpreter and, secondly, whether the interpreter can perform that task, i.e. whether the interpreter can interpret: what are the prerequisites, what tools does the doctor have to make that assessment? A third question is: how does the health care professional who makes the wrong assessment in this context stand in relation to, for example, the health care provider who makes the wrong assessment in this regard? If you do wrong, do you misdiagnosed because you made a wrong decision on the interpretation of the interpreter's competences or the need for interpretation? That was three questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115209	It can be difficult to answer all questions at once, also because it is more complicated than that. We have really big problems with language problems, and it is whether it is a doctor or a patient who cannot speak properly Danish. There are mistakes in the health care system, and this will also be done because of language difficulties already due to language difficulties. We also have interpreters who do not interpret in the right language because we believe that Arabic is one thing, and then it turns out that it is 20 different things, African or another language. But what is important is that we are in Denmark and that it is in Denmark that we make guidelines and some laws, and we want to go ahead with other conventions that the rapporteur asked about. We want when you embark on a trip to Denmark, it has to be because you want to be a part of the community and want to be a part of it, so that you also learn and understand the Danish language.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115308	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115310	So I would like to ask in another way: does the Danish People's Party, conventions or not think that we should discriminate on the basis of disability, since the Danish People's Party does not think that there should be any exceptions? Then there is the second question I asked about before: how is the individual doctor who has to decide whether to use an interpreter; who has to assess whether the interpreter is good enough if he or she makes a wrong decision and, on that basis, a mistake is made that leads to an oversight case? What is the situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115345	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115347	In relation to the first question, the rapporteur said something wrong, and it was that the Danish People's Party did not want any exceptions. I didn't say that. But we want to work with these exceptions so that we ensure that this does not mean that everyone can be covered by an exception. We are talking here, for example. about making mentally ill into one group, but when we sometimes talk about them in health care, people can say that there is really a big difference between whether you suffer from stress, depression, schizophrenia or anything else. That is what we want to go in and have a look at so that we do not just make an exception that can affect everyone. Because if you come from countries where there is war or where you live in families where honour killings are something you experience, then it is clear that you get a trauma.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115435	Thank you. Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115436	Thank you. I found it very interesting to hear Mrs Liselott Blixt's speech as she actually told us how small this group really is and how much money was spent on interpretation. I think I heard the sum of 150 million. kr. When you read the bill, you will see what economic consequences it will have, and in the future it will have an annual impact of just under 2.5 million. kr. I mean, 150 million is being spent. kr. This proposal would save just under 2.5 million. kr. Does the rapporteur not think that it shows that this proposal is very much more about symbolic policy than it is about a very, very large group of people who are now going to pay for their interpretation services themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115538	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115539	I think that the rapporteur of the Radicals is hitting the nails. That is precisely one of the reasons why I want to take up these exceptions. Because it seems to me that it is a symbolic policy both on the part of the Left and the Socialist Group that we say: well, now we want to be involved in own-funding for interpreting aid, but we really do not get much out of it, because we can actually exempt most of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115604	Thank you. Mrs. Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115605	Then I would like to follow up on a question raised by Mrs Stine Brix, namely the issue of the disability convention, because I am simply not quite sure that I understood Mrs Liselott Blixt's reply. So now I ask this very specific question: is the Danish People's Party willing to recognise that Denmark is deliberately breaking the Disability Convention in order to get fewer exceptions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115633	Thank you. Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115634	In the Danish People's Party we will do what is best for Denmark, and it will always precede the conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115643	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115644	Thank you. I also have a few questions. I am here with the consultation answer from the University of Copenhagen Medical School, and one of the points they have is that there is in fact a larger group which may be Danish, but which does not know the medical terms relating to, for example. The body's anatomy, internal organs, side effects on medicine and health care, which are important for e.g. to be able to take appropriate medications or give informed consent. What is the rapporteur's position on this? Some people don't know Danish. It is relatively easy to find out who it is, but then there is also a large group who can Danish, but who cannot the trade terms. Do they have to pay for interpreting services themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115745	If you were to exclude all those who do not know the professional names, there would be a great many Danes who would also have to have interpreters. Now it is the case that many of the professional terms are in Latin. I think there are a lot of ethnic Danes who look up in a dictionary or something else because it is in Latin. So it is equally difficult for everyone in Denmark to understand what the doctor is talking about. I think there are a lot of people who look at their files and find the terms, and then they get translated through a translation tool or through others who know about the professional terms in health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115826	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115827	When we can have difficulty with it as Danes, we can imagine that it can be even harder if you come with a completely different language and then have to understand these gestures. The second question I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether it makes an impression on the rapporteur that precisely the faculty of medicine at the University of Copenhagen writes in their hearing answer that because doctors can no longer obtain this interpreter, in many cases they cannot vouch for the investigation and treatment responsibilities they have. They say that it can be difficult to live up to the doctor's vow, where it says that the doctor must use his knowledge in the best of his discretion with diligence and spaciousness for the benefit of society and his fellow human beings and bear the same conscientious concern for the poor as for the rich without a person's reputation. Does that impress the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115924	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115925	Hearing answers always make an impression, but we are also different people who look at laws and rights in different ways, and there I would like to comment on what the rapporteur said at the beginning, that when Danes find it difficult to understand the Latin terms, foreigners will have even more difficulty in doing so. I would say that some foreigners feel a little easier about this, especially if they come from Italy or Spain, because they use very many of those verbs there. But of course it makes an impression, and we read them too. But we want the best for Denmark, and we think we do that by going this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419115958	Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419120000	Thank you. I believe that both the rapporteur and I have experienced standing with patients with whom we could not actually communicate because of linguistic barriers. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur agrees with me and, moreover, also with a great many consultation parties that inability to communicate can be fatal, can lead to mistreatment and, moreover, can delay the doctor's work to a very severe degree to the detriment of all other patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419120032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419120033	I would say that what is fatal is that for so many years we have had no legislation or guidelines as to who should pay an interpreter or when to learn Danish. We are fine for this now, and it is going to affect some of the doctors who have difficulty in understanding or explaining patients who have lived here for 40 years and who do not know a word Danish. We need a society to function, and it is getting worse and worse, the longer we just let go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419120105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419120106	Thank you. In other words, I agree with the rapporteur that there has been a lack of legislation. For example, it has. As a result, we have had major problems with the quality of interpretation, which we have in fact also discussed in our Health Committee a very short time ago. I wonder what the rapporteur thinks about the citizen who simply does not have the money for the interpretation. Does the rapporteur agree with me that it can result in the return of children's interpreters, that we have interpreters who do not have the task?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419120136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419120137	No, I think it was the former Social Democratic rapporteur who also said that this very point of interpretation for children is not happening, because one cannot do that only if one over 15 years and in special situations and if the doctor wants to do so etc. It is important that we draw a line in the sand saying that we have to do something. We should have done that 30 years ago. But if we keep doing nothing now, we will end up like I did when I once drove around the United States and ended up in a neighborhood where no one knew English or American. Then we live with a parallel society that has its own language, but never learns the Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419120214	Thank you. And that was the last comment. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I'll postpone the meeting until 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419130000	The sitting is resumed. We have reached Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left, in the ranks of rapporteurs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419130021	There are owls in the bog, go out and stop my car, it stands and goes and menu with cream, or you have a stand until you take a new menu that the Social Democratic turnaround from rejection to support the bill here is a school example of. The Danish language is not always easy to understand, pronounce or decode. But one can expect that when one has been resident in Denmark for more than 3 years and has had the opportunity to learn Danish, one should be able to go to the doctor without having to receive interpretation assistance if one otherwise has a level of function physically and mentally that is within the normal range. This is the starting point for the legislative proposal we are debating today which changes the current rules for free interpretation in the health care sector. For with the bill here we introduce fees for foreign language interpretation in health care for people who have lived in Denmark for more than 3 years. Because it is quite simply not right that the public should pay for interpreting aid, when it has actually been possible to learn the Danish language. In Danish society, our welfare society, we must carefully consider how we spend the community's money. We must ensure that there are resources for good schools, decent care for the elderly and high-quality treatments in our healthcare system. We do this best by making wise priorities. So today, when we change the rules for the payment of interpretation, it is an expression of a clear political priority for the Community's money. Let me make it clear straight away that even if a number of people would have to pay for interpretation in the future, it does not deprive any of the possibility of having interpreters' assistance. Being able to speak in the country in which you settle is crucial to your integration. Unfortunately, we have seen far too many examples of people who have lived in Denmark for several years not having learned the Danish language and not having been met with demands to learn our language, which is of course crucial for one's being able to commit oneself. Recently, in Berlingske Tidende, we were able to read reports from a head doctor at the Immigrant Medical Clinic in Hvidovre, Annemette Mygh, where she describes the major challenges that are, especially with women who cannot read, speak or understand Danish after having been here for up to 40 years. That is certainly not right, because how can we contribute to our common welfare if we cannot at least speak our language? And that has consequences for the individual. Women often do not receive the treatment they should have; they are unable to take responsibility for their own treatment; they live a relatively inactive and isolated life; they are completely cut off from Danish society, and both health and well-being are affected. It is quite grotesque, and it damages the cohesion of Denmark to such an extent. We must dare to make demands and have expectations of those who come to the country. The language is one of the keys to becoming part of an integral part of Danish society. Today has 8.5 per cent. of the population of Denmark non-western background • a dramatic development in relatively few years. When I remember my own everyday life in primary school, we had one Turkish girl in the year. In 1980 only 1% of the total had been spent. of the population of non-western background, and it fits very well with the picture I have of childhood school. The increase is one thing. The real challenge arises when those who come to Denmark do not learn Danish and do not actively participate in society, but instead disqualify themselves by not being curious about the country they have often chosen. They settle in ghettos and live for roll-down curtains behind big dishes. I want my children and my grandchildren to grow up in a much more homogeneous Denmark, where more people contribute to the common welfare and where we much more cherish the Danish values, for example. equality between the sexes, the right to equal education and the right to marry the one you love. In short: that Denmark is an option and not an empty shell, where for some groups life is lived in parallel in small closed enclaves behind shattered curtains and with a dish in the windowill. I have taken note of several critical consultation responses and let me make it clear: we do not remove the right to interpret. It is still up to the doctor to assess whether interpretation is needed. And children and young people under the age of 18 do not have to pay for interpreter. People with reduced physical or mental capacity who, for one reason or another, are unable to acquire or acquire and use acquired Danish knowledge shall not pay for interpreter. The latter is an important point for me. I have previously visited the psychiatry in Aarhus and participated in medical consultations with people who have come here from among others. Syria with terrible war experiences in its luggage. Many people are affected by ptsd, and anyone can tell themselves that learning a completely new language is an almost inhuman task when you already have major challenges, for example. to express oneself in its own mother tongue, including: because of trauma, or even just to keep oneself together. Those people are seen from my chair a good example of people who, in future too, should be entitled to paid interpreting assistance. The Left can support the bill as presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419130534	Thank you. A brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419130538	I note that even the rapporteur from the Left does not have a single health professional argument for introducing an interpretation fee into health care. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that communication between the patient and healthcare professionals is absolutely essential for making the right diagnosis, doing the right treatment, telling how to use your medicine, etc., and that, in the extreme, if you have inadequate communication, it may be the reason why you make a completely wrong diagnosis, that you mistreat, that you are doing damage to the patient or that the patient is not receiving the treatment at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419130619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419130620	That is absolutely correct. There is not a single medical argument. It is completely, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that this is a clear political priority for the way in which we should use Community funds. And my starting point is that when you have been in Denmark for 3 years or more, have had the opportunity to learn Danish, you should also be able to handle a medical consultation. Therefore, it is also important to maintain that it is of course the doctor who, on the basis of the communication he or she has with the patient, will decide whether interpretation is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419130653	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419130659	Thank you. Thank you for the very clear indication that there are no health-care arguments to support it. On the other hand, there are a great many health-care arguments that count very strongly against it. That is why we have a bunch of consultation answers, all of which, without exception, warns strongly against the bill that the government has put forward here. Then the rapporteur says that this is about prioritising the financial resources of society. This is an extremely small amount. And it has not even been taken into account that the regions all write in their consultation answer that this will lead to massive bureaucracy, both in the regions and in the health professionals employed in the regions and in the general practitioners. Overall, it will mean an additional cost to health care that doctors will have to spend their time on more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419130750	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419130752	I simply do not think that there is anything wrong in making demands on the people who come here and who, for the most part, really want to contribute to Danish society. But we also have to demand that you live in Denmark, there are some basic characteristics that you have to acquire. One of them is to be able to speak, and that is why I think it is easy to say, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that when you come here and have been here for three years, language teaching has been offered, we can expect and demand that you can do a medical consultation. And it is also important to stress that we do not deprive anyone of the right to interpret; we just say that if, after three years in Denmark, you cannot speak the language, you have to pay for that interpretation yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419130846	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419130849	Thank you. I would also like to continue a little with these consultation answers that we have. After all, the rapporteur from the Left believes that health care should be used as an incentive to learn Danish. In several hearings it is noted. For example, Danske Patients write that in the worst case, the self-payment may mean that patients who need medical care end up not seeking it because they cannot afford to pay for an interpreter. Another consequence is that they appear without interpretation, and that is not appropriate. There are many consultation responses with this theme, which stresses that, in the long term, it can actually be dangerous, and it can also be a cost to health care if we do this. Does the rapporteur accept the answers to the question?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419130948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419130949	I simply think it is so gratifying that there has been a hearing response. After all, it is one of the great strengths of Danish democracy, namely that we put forward the legislative proposals, and then we have the opportunity to make comments that go in either direction. In fact, I find it gratifying that some, including Danish patients, have bothered themselves. I also think it is important to stick to it. And again, I would like to stress that we do not, of course, deprive anyone of the right to interpret. I do not quite understand the concern that some people are not given interpretation, because it is the doctor who has to decide whether an interpreter is needed or whether there is no interpreter. It is like the informed consent. So that's why it's the doctor who's supposed to decide what communication is with this patient, and if you need an interpreter, yes, you'll need one. If you don't need an interpreter, no, you don't need one.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419131043	If you want to speak again, you press straight in. You didn't. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. No, no, no, no, no. Here we go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419131054	Thank you. Now the rapporteur mentions that it is the doctor, but that requires that you have come to the doctor's office. The reason why I read out this hearing answer is that of many people who believe that you might risk that some people do not actually come to the doctor or hospital because they simply cannot pay for an interpreter. So that is a different issue from what the rapporteur says. The Faculty of Health at the University of Copenhagen even says that there is a risk here that doctors will not be able to live up to their doctor's vows to give equal conscientious care to the poor as to the rich without a person's reputation. How does the rapporteur feel about this being actually said by professionals?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419131145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419131146	But I am quite comfortable with the fact that all treatment in the Danish healthcare system is based on an informed consent, and that is where it all starts. A doctor has to make sure of that. No matter which patient enters the door, the doctor must ensure that the treatment is based on informed consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419131203	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419131205	Thank you. I have taken note of very different views on what kind of citizens may still be exempt from this bill, from the Socialist rapporteur, who had almost excluded all patients, and from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who, on the other hand, practically did not escape anyone. So I would just like to ask, as part of the Finance Act, whether the rapporteur can give me an idea of what kind of patients would actually be exempt from this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419131237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419131239	But I fully support what the bill says, namely that if you have a reduced physical or mental capacity and you cannot acquire, use or acquire linguistic competences, you must have the opportunity to have a paid interpreter. Now I mentioned myself here that I had visited the psychiatrist in Aarhus and met patients who were traumatized by ptsd and certainly did not have a real opportunity to acquire linguistic skills. I would like to say that there were some of the patients I met there that I think would be quite obvious to exempt, and that is also what I mentioned in the last part of my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419131326	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419131328	But it must surely be beyond doubt that the citizens who are affected by this proposal are also the weakest citizens of society, and hence the poorest citizens of society, and that is the way to introduce a new type of user charge into the otherwise free health care that we have had so far, I am afraid that we risk citizens opting out the interpreter to the detriment of treatment, as has already been said, but also the risk that it will become children or that it will be bad interpreters who take over the interpretation, even to the detriment of the patient. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419131407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419131409	I think that what the draft law says is very sensible, namely that no child should interpret, that is, that children under the age of 18 should not be used as interpreters for their parents, and that has actually been crucial for us in the Left. And then I do not agree with the conclusion of the SF rapporteur here that it is the weakest and the poorest. What this bill is aiming at is those who have not acquired Danish language skills, and I have not seen any evidence that it is per year. definition are people who are particularly weak or have a particular economic challenge. I note that if you have been in Denmark for more than three years, you have had the opportunity to learn Danish, and if you have not acquired language skills, I think it is perfectly reasonable to say that you have to pay for the interpreter yourself. It's not on public account.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419131453	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. The next in line is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419131501	A fee on interpretation in health care for those people who have been in Denmark for more than 3 years and who do not master the Danish language will increase the inequality in health. And it will hurt some of society's most vulnerable, most vulnerable; those with few resources; those with the worst economy and those who are most ill. It is women, in particular, with an immigrant background, traumatized refugees and victims of torture, who will be particularly affected. These are highly traumatized people, for example. with ptsd that will not receive the right treatment. Of course, it is also people who are chronically ill and often need medical care, who will be particularly affected and will receive the largest bill. The government says they want to make exceptions for people with physical and psychological impairments, but how is it that you get a diagnosis? How is it established whether you have a physical or a mental disability? That's one of them. know that you can use the Danish health care system. It doesn't make any sense. In a long, long series of consultation answers yes, in fact virtually all of them point out that this is a breach of the principle of easy and equal access to health, i.e. a completely fundamental principle of Danish health policy that it should be free to go to a doctor and free of charge to receive treatment in the hospital. It is now in danger of falling, and it is also in a way in which some of the most vulnerable are charged with the costs of seeking help. It is sad and, above all, sad because it is not just a question of principles. There are also serious consequences for the group affected. In the extreme, citizens who need health care will be absent altogether because they cannot afford to pay a fee. This will lead to the disease getting worse; conditions that could have been treated or that could have been prevented will turn into acute conditions that are much more expensive to treat. That is a completely crazy priority, in my opinion. Many consultation parties also rightly fear that we will once again see pressure on children being used as interpreters, despite the fact that there is a ban on it. When a doctor or a health care professional is in a situation where it may be the only way to carry out a very important consultation, it goes without saying that there will be pressure to break the law. And health professionals will be put in unpleasant situations. The doctor will be responsible for assessing whether the individual needs an interpreter. The doctor must also assess whether the interpreter is good enough, even if it is in a language that the doctor does not know. And if the doctor makes a wrong assessment in these areas where he or she has no qualifications, it can lead to mismedication, misdiagnostic and injury. And the doctor will be put in the dilemma of assessing the need for an interpreter to be used, even if the doctor knows that the patient is not able to pay. What should the doctor do in this situation? There is no answer to that by the government. So there are no health professional arguments for introducing an interpretation fee into the health care system. None at all. Both the Social Democrats and the Left have also confirmed this here today. On the other hand, there are a great many health-care arguments for not doing so. And there isn't one out of every consultation answer we've got that thinks this is a good idea either. On the contrary, it is being warned from all sides, from patient organisations, from staff organisations, from the regions, that the idea should be dropped. That ought to make the Folketing think better. The only reason we have heard here today has nothing to do with health policy. The reason is that the proposal will increase the incentives for foreigners to learn Danish. To this I would say that there are already massive incentives to learn Danish. It is extremely difficult to function well in Danish society if you cannot Danish. We demand many levels that you should acquire Danish. In many cases, it succeeds; in some cases, it fails, and there may be good reasons for doing so. You can be traumatized in such a violent way that you are unable to learn new things. You can come with no or very, very poor schooling. Whatever the case, I have no doubt that this proposal will make no more people learn Danish. The craziest thing is that we've tried it before with very bad results. Therefore, no more than six months passed before the interpretation fee was abolished again in 2011. Experience has shown that this led to a massive bureaucracy for the regions, for health professionals, for general practice. This has not even been taken into account in the economy in this proposal. However, this is the bureaucracy that is going to happen, despite the fact that there are many warnings about it in the consultation answers here • the bourgeois parties and the Socialists will now pull down on the health care system again. This means that important time for health professionals must go on seeking exemptions and exceptions; to examine who is covered, rather than what is the core task of health care, namely diagnosing, treating, providing care and care. The introduction of the bill states: Communication between the patient and the health care professional is crucial to achieving the best possible patient treatment, and lack or lack of communication can, in the utmost consequence, be a factor in misdiagnosing and mistreatment. I fully agree with that and therefore the conclusion can only be one: the Enhedslisten cannot support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419132129	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and this is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419132137	Thank you. This bill introduces a certain amount of user fees if you need interpreting assistance in the health system and have been living in Denmark for more than 3 years. The Liberal Alliance believes that it is quite reasonable that you should pay the bill yourself for failing to learn Danish. It is quite wrong to let taxpayers pick up the bill, because people who have been here for more than 3 years have not made the necessary effort to be able to commit themselves in Denmark. However, it is important to me that the proposal exempts people from user charges if they have such a reduced physical or mental capacity that they are unable to learn Danish and if you are a minor. The Liberal Alliance supports the proposal and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419132231	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419132235	After all, we often hear the Liberal Alliance proclaiming that there will be a reduction in bureaucracy in the public sector. We have seen an elderly minister who has mainly introduced bureaucracy on his watch. Now the Liberal Alliance is on a proposal which, according to the regions, I am now just quoting the Region of Southern Denmark is a very heavy administrative task. They have a list of eight points with various administrative tasks which take time from the work of health professionals, which this proposal will entail. Why is the Liberal Alliance now going to drag this bureaucracy down again on health care, on the health professionals working in hospitals and the doctors working in general practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419132322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419132323	The Liberal Alliance will not again be in favour, as the rapporteur himself says, of less bureaucracy all the time, and we are working for that. As far as the elderly are concerned, I am not going to define the work that has been done there as extra bureaucracy, but common sense. But we can take that in a different direction. As far as the legislative proposal here is concerned, it is possible that there will be some extra bureaucracy. So we have considered that, in this context, an additional effort has to be made, just as there are other areas of integration. We have an extreme problem in terms of integration, and there we have been involved in some measures which are not very liberal and which we are not so happy about, but which we have therefore felt necessary in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419132419	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419132421	The draft law will have significant administrative implications for the regions and the costs will in no way be commensurate with the realised earnings of the proposal. This is how the regions write. And when I say again, it's because you've had this before, in 2011, and that's what was the experience. Health staff spent a very large part of their time managing this scheme, seeking exemptions, examining who was covered by time from health care tasks; valuable time. But the Liberal Alliance believes that this is a good idea to reinstate. I just have to conclude that it is not going very well if it is still the aim of the Liberal Alliance to reduce the bureaucracy in the public sector, at least not in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419132510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419132511	I think that is a relevant objection, but in relation to this issue we have considered it appropriate to do so in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419132523	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. Then we have reached Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419132531	Let me make it clear straight away: the alternative cannot vote in favour of this proposal. It is a bill which, according to the government, among other things. has been put forward because it is crucial that it increases the incentive for non-Danish-speaking EU citizens living in Denmark to learn Danish. This strengthens their integration into Danish society for the benefit of individuals and society as a whole. The health service is thus used here as an incentive to learn how to speak Danish. If you put it a little on the tip, you can say: If you cannot understand what the doctor says when you have cancer, you must be motivated to learn to speak Danish. In Denmark, everyone resident in this country has equal rights of access to health care. This is a fundamental and crucial principle of Danish health legislation. We do not think it is justifiable that health care should be used as an incentive to learn Danish. We have heard that here today virtually every consultation answer agrees with that. We believe that the draft law is contrary to quite fundamental principles, as I have just mentioned, concerning the right to benefits mentioned in the law. Because if we remove unpaid interpretation, there is a risk that patients who need interpreting services but cannot afford to get the same health offer as others. Many of the patients in need of interpreting assistance are financially insecure and vulnerable. They are traumatized, and they may end up not showing up for treatment at all. Communication between the patient and the health care professional is crucial to achieving the best possible patient treatment for us Danes. If communication does not work, it may cause incorrect diagnoses and mistreatments. An example of how bad things can go was described in the media last autumn. A Congolese family was hospitalized with symptoms of poisoning, and unfortunately the poisoning cost two of their children their lives. The family experienced several times not receiving interpretation assistance. As I have said, we have seen a lot of consultation answers saying that the doctor cannot do proper medical work when there are language barriers. And we have read in the hearing from the University of Copenhagen's Faculty of Health that they write that it is indeed also a problem in relation to the individual doctor's ability to live up to his doctor's vow, in which the doctor among other things. Says: "To the best of beauty, to use my knowledge diligently and diligently for the benefit of society and my fellow man, that I will always have the same conscientious care for the poor as for the rich without the person's reputation. There is very great doubt on the part of all the professionals who have replied to the hearing whether we will be able to do so if we adopt this bill. Yes, it would be fine if everyone could learn to speak Danish when they came to the doctor. That would make communication much easier. But we simply do not want to say yes to a bill in which the desire for foreigners to learn Danish is based on a logic with some form of punishment as motivation. We believe that this is a legislative proposal which is deeply problematic and which may have implications for patients' legal certainty and for patient safety. We think we should be concerned about everyone. There must be a level playing field for everyone. That's why the alternative says a big no to L 213.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419133013	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. There are no brief comments. Then we must listen to Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419133025	It is rare, however, that all consultation responses to a bill are so it is organisations such as Danske Patients, the Medical Association, the Danish Regions, the Ethical Council, the Danish Society for Patient Safety, the Institute for Human Rights and a lot of others who are not just a little, but are totally critical and concerned about this bill, and we are also in the Radical Left. The function of interpreters is crucial when the patient has to tell the doctor or nurse how he or she feels and how the symptoms are. The interpreter is also crucial when the doctor needs to understand the patient's situation, arrange treatment and follow up on the further course. Oh yes, the government party rapporteurs and the Danish People's Party, and now apparently also the Social Democratic Party, but you can expect everyone to speak Danish after 3 years in Denmark, and if you don't, you must also feel the consequences and pay. I therefore agree that we can expect that when you come to Denmark, you have to learn the language, and that can be done by far, by the vast majority after 3 years. But surely we must not play games with people's lives and health if they do not or cannot do what we expect. It is simply too far-reaching a step in terms of political positioning. Then it may also be that the bill writes, and I quote: "A patient will not be able to opt out of interpreting for financial reasons. Well, you can if you don't come. One of the arguments for self-payment for interpreting assistance is that it is expected that it will strengthen the integration of foreigners into Danish society, and good Danish language skills are of course very important, enormously important, for education and employment and thus for good integration, but it also has good health. If you put obstacles in the way of achieving the best possible health among immigrants, yes, you run the risk of opposing integration, and this bill breaks with the Danish tradition that everyone, regardless of money purse and educational level, has equal access to health care. We think it really is a pity that the Socialists have chosen to change their line on the question of self-payment for interpreting aid. Radical Left votes against.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419133327	Thank you to Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419133336	Thank you very much. In the SF, we will fight inequality in health at all times. This also means that we are not voting for proposals that will increase inequality. This is the case with this proposal that we are debating today. Communication is essential for patient safety. The doctor who cannot communicate with the patient is in danger of making mistakes, and that can of course be fatal. I would like to stress that I also believe that new citizens who would like to live in Denmark should also learn Danish if there is any chance at all, because it is a fact that one can be so damaged that it is not possible to acquire a new language. In other cases, it's just that it's too hard. Fortunately, in the vast majority of cases, things are going well. However, whatever the reason for not learning the language in 3 years, it is wrong to save on interpreting services in the health sector. There is an imminent risk of patients being interpreted by less competent interpreters or, at worst, by family members who are too soft to be able to interpret correctly. Unfortunately, we know this from past bitter experiences. It is an attenuating fact that the proposal also makes demands on the professional interpreters in the future. In the SF we are pleased that interpreters will be certified in the future; we have proposed this ourselves. The very subject of poor interpretation has recently been on the agenda, and doctors could tell just how fatal it is when you cannot communicate properly. Besides increasing the risk of mistreatment, hard communication also slows down doctors in their work. Nevertheless, paradoxically, it is the weakest patients who do not just learn the language, who do not benefit from the certified interpreters, because they can hardly afford it. I would therefore urge the government to reconsider this proposal. It creates so much inequality in health, and it can become fatal, just as it will make the work of doctors unnecessarily difficult. The SF is fully in line with the many people who are extremely critical of this proposal, and we are of course voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419133552	Then we thank Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Then we have actually reached the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419133602	Thank you for your comments and for the receipt of the bill, which shows to a large extent the differences that are also political in this area, in relation to what you can do and what you can make of demands when it comes to ensuring that people who come here also learn the Danish language and show that they want integration and are part of Danish society. If we look at the cost of foreign language interpretation in health care, according to figures from Danske Regioner in 2016 they amounted to 152 million. kr. It is a great deal of money, and the government believes that it is not fair that the government should spend such a large amount of money to pay for interpreting assistance to foreigners who have been resident in Denmark for several years. We must be able to expect that people who have even received free Danish education will learn to speak the Danish language well enough to be able to communicate with health professionals without the use of interpreter after 3 years of residence in the country. And if there is a need for interpretation, it is the government's view that it is quite reasonable that payment in the form of fees should be made in the same way as they do in a number of countries with which we usually compare ourselves; this can, for example, be done. be Holland and Germany just to take some just south of the Danish border. The foreigners who come to the country have a great deal of responsibility for achieving successful integration into Danish society, both for the benefit of the individual, but also for the benefit of our society as a whole. This requires, among other things, that you take the lead in learning Danish from the outset. The language is a key to a great deal in our society. Denmark must be an open country for foreigners who come here with a desire and a desire to contribute positively to Danish society, and here the ability to speak Danish plays a major role. For the government, it is therefore crucial that the incentive to learn Danish also increases for foreigners who settle in Denmark, and that we are also clear about the expectations we have of people and the demands we make. Therefore, the bill will set a limit on the length of time a person resident in this country can receive free interpretation services in connection with treatment at the doctor or hospital. In addition, full self-payment is also required for interpreting services provided to persons who do not wish to use the interpreter designated by the health service. It may be people who do not want a woman to interpret; it may be people who do not want a specific person with another religion to interpret. We think it is quite reasonable that we have an expectation that people themselves will have to pay if they do not want the interpreter made available to them. It is also a question of determining from the outset which values are fundamental in Danish society. This also makes it clear that the right to interpret does not include a right for the patient to choose the specific interpreter freely, nor should it be possible to choose whether the interpreter that is given is an interpreter who interprets by video or an interpreter who shows up and thus is present in the same room as the patient. The draft law thus in no way abolishes the right to interpret and the regions will continue to be responsible for providing interpretation services to those who need it in the context of treatment. Some of them will then have to pay for the interpretation they receive. It will also continue to be the doctor who assesses the need for interpretation in order to conduct a conversation with the patient and also ensure informed consent and ensure that the treatment is carried out in a proper manner. As I have said, the limit for the payment of a fee is three years' residence in the country. We are, of course, well aware by the government that there are people, such as myself. because of reduced physical or mental capacity is not able to learn Danish. It may also be children we want to exempt, precisely because they are children and have a special need for protection, namely children. That is why the draft law also provides a legal basis for issuing rules that we can, of course, have exceptions in those areas. This means that, like when the scheme existed back in 2011, when the former government of the Danish People's Party, together with the Danish People's Party, introduced a similar scheme, rules will be laid down which exempt children and parents from paying a fee in relation to a child's illness. This is similar for patients, for example: suffering from ptsd and who are unable to learn Danish. Exceptions could also be made. This was also the result of the announcement that remained in 2011. In this way, I think that, when I read the consultation answers, we have been very aware that, of course, there will be exceptions in this area. It is also important for me to stress that the bill should also be seen in the context of the other agreements we made with the Danish People's Party in connection with the 2018 Finance Act, where we have taken a number of initiatives to ensure a higher and more uniform quality of foreign language interpretation in health care. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned this. We have among other things. a certification scheme for foreign language interpreters in health care, so that we ensure that certified interpreters will also have their qualifications tested. Demands will be made for their linguistic skills, knowledge of interpretation ethics and their understanding and knowledge of health care. I think that if you have read the articles that were in, among other things. Information about a Swahilitolk, which could only have words Swahili, also knows why it is important that we see today's bill in the context of the other agreements made by the government with the Danish People's Party in connection with the Finance Act. Basically, it is about ensuring more quality for the millions of kroner we spend every year on interpreting, and it is also about the emergency interpreting centre, which has been set aside for us to support the regions starting to use video interpretation in their hospitals via the national video hub. It follows from an agreement made many years ago that technical equipment has been installed for this too from the former VK government and the Danish People's Party agreements. If you take the answer I have given to the Danish Parliament on question 1109 then, unfortunately, you will be able to see the great variety that has landed across the country in relation to whether you are using video interpretation and thus also looking at whether you can reduce the costs of interpretation in the health care system, because you are not dependent on an interpreter driving back and forth; you are not dependent on the fact that you cannot make an optimal booking of the times; you are in a completely different way decoupled time and place, compared to the fact that you also do not need to book time in advance because you can quickly connect up via video. That is why it is important from the government's point of view to secure the interpretation of our health services and also to ensure that we use our resources properly, that we get widespread video interpretation in the country's hospitals and in the country's general practices. I do not think that is satisfactory, and I have to say that the regions have in no way exploited the opportunities that exist in this area and in which equipment has been invested. I think that when we look at the distribution of the use of video interpretation in the regions, the Region of Southern Denmark is a very good example of how it is possible to increase the use of video interpretation and that there is a great deal of benefit to video interpretation in relation to attendance interpretation. This is one of the things we would like to push on with the Finance Act, which I think is worth mentioning, because this should also be seen in the context of the legislative proposal we are discussing today, in order to ensure that, in the acute situation, a video-interpreting link can be turned on. That is also the answer to some of the concerns I can read in a number of the hearings: what if you do not know that the patient needs an interpreter, then you have not ordered it in advance, and how do you ensure that you can keep to the time? Yes, that can be solved technologically in a different way than we do today. It is, I think, an important part of the financial agreement signed by the government and the Danish People's Party with this joint regional centre for acute video interpretation. I hope that the bill will receive a good committee reading. I think it also shows very much the differences in Danish politics, in relation to whether you think it is right and proper to expect people who come here to learn the Danish language, and that we also expect that if you have not learned the Danish language, it is not the public who has to pay the interpreter's bill. Then you have to pay your own fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419134456	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419134501	Thank you. A doctor is obliged to assess whether a patient needs an interpreter. I would like to hear the Minister reply to the many health professionals who ask: what should I do if I am in a situation where I consider it necessary for me to be able to carry out this consultation I am going to carry out, but vice versa, I know that my patient cannot afford to pay and will be absent from an important consultation, even if not knowing what the consequences of non-compliance can be? What should you do in the situation as a doctor or a nurse or as a health care professional?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419134548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419134550	I think it is going to be very caricatured, and I would actually like to say, as the Socialist rapporteur also did: this is not, after all, about the fact that a dancing machine is now being installed at the entrance, and then you have to provide your information and put the money in advance. This is also very clear from the draft law. That is why, as a health professional, you must have the dialogue with your patient that is needed. A technological solution must also be found, including: video interpretation ensure that not every time you have to take a position in advance, but that you can connect to an emergency common regional video-interpreting centre and use the nodes that have been set up technologically in the regions so that you as a health care professional do not have to deal in advance with questions such as: is this now a patient where interpretation if perhaps will be necessary, and six months ago when I saw the patient, it was necessary, but is it still necessary? That is what the technological solution must help to support. And then, as the law states, it is the health care provider who has to assess whether a qualified interview can be conducted and thus also obtain informed consent without or using an interpreter, and then it is the region which will subsequently collect and settle with the individual if he has resided in the country for more than three years and is not covered by the derogations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419134707	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419134708	It's not the caricature. This is a real dilemma, as a general practitioner, for example. This means that a decision must be made to charge a patient a fee, knowing that the patient cannot pay it and that this may result in the patient failing. I have asked many times about this in writing and it has been at the heart of today's debate. Frankly, I think that the health minister in the country owes health professionals an answer to what they should do in that dilemma. What are they gonna do? Do you want me to understand what the Minister of Health is saying, like that patients just have to stop paying that fee if they can't? Or should I understand it in that way that they say that then they just have to leave, that's just too bad? What should one do if one is faced with the dilemma that one might face as a health care professional, namely that one should charge a patient a fee which the patient cannot pay and which could result in the patient not attending a necessary treatment, a necessary consultation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419134807	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419134808	Healthcare professionals in the Danish health service must relate to the health professional task they have. They shall not relate to the possible collection of fees. The regions must do so. That is why health professionals must do exactly as they are doing today: ensure good, qualitative patient treatment, whether it is done inside hospitals or in general practice. We can see that too. If I may say that this is going to be a little caricatured, it is because when we look at the list of how many other European countries operate with a fee of their own, it is not known to me that in those countries there is a completely non-functioning health service. So, take Germany, take Spain, take Belgium, take France, where interpretation is sometimes provided by interpreters from non-profit organisations. Take Italy We can also take some of the Eastern European countries, Croatia etc. That is why I think it can be done in Denmark, and I think it is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419134908	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419134910	Thank you. I would also like to put a question to the Minister because, as we have heard here today, there are a great many health professionals and organisations who point out that this bill is problematic. For example: points out that the University of Copenhagen's Faculty of Health could be such that doctors cannot always live up to their investigation and treatment responsibilities and that in some cases they can also find it difficult to live up to their medical vows that they should bear the same conscientious concern for the poor as for the rich. Does the Minister accept that this is really something that people in the health sector see as the consequence of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419135014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419135015	I can also read the hearing answers and see the concerns that are there. So on the question of whether I recognise that there are those consultation answers, I would say that yes, I fully acknowledge that. It does not change the fact that the government thinks it is right and proper that after 3 years in Denmark one should be expected to have learned the Danish language. We are talking about failed integration for decades, when we have not dared to make demands, and we must change that, for the sake of the individual. Living in Danish society is no good if you have lived here for decades and still can't help your children when they come home from school with homework, can't have a regular conversation in our society. And this bill is about much more and more than the question of health care, as the rapporteur says. It is about what kind of society we want to move forward in relation to whether we want to demand that you learn Danish if you settle in Denmark and want to be part of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419135110	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419135111	But I did not ask if the Minister acknowledged that there was a hearing answer in which it was written. I asked whether the Minister acknowledged what was stated in the hearing reply, that is to say that there are some health professionals who are nervous and really concerned about whether they can meet their medical obligations. That is the one thing I would like to hear about the Minister, what to say, respect can be a concern. The second thing is: is it the Minister of Health who has to ensure that people can sit at home and help their children with homework, through health care, so use a situation where you go to the doctor, as an instrument to get someone to talk Danish with their children? I simply do not understand that thinking. There may be patient safety and legal certainty with which this is going to be a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419135212	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419135213	This bill doesn't change the fact that if there's a need for an interpreter, there's got to be an interpreter. This bill doesn't change the fact that the health care professional needs to concentrate on the health profession and take care of the treatment of the person. And if the doctor, the nurse, other health professionals consider that an interpreter is needed to provide satisfactory communication, then an interpreter is needed. And it is not the individual health care professional who should have a talk about payment/non-payment with the individual, because the doctor should not have that relationship in relation to the question of whether the health care professional should be in the dilemma. It is the administration in the region that will have to collect the own-payment subsequently. So basically, I have to say that I think this is right and fair, and so it covers the fact that we are a government that wants better integration in Denmark, and if we are to have it, there is no point in focusing only on one area; then we need to strengthen our demands and expectations for people who come here all the way around society in order to create a stronger society where the individual is also better integrated and has the opportunity to behave better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419135315	Thank you to the Minister for Health. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419135330	The debate has been opened, and we are doing so with Mr Beazley. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419135352	Thank you, President. We have made a very fine arrangement for those who become ill as a result of exposure to asbestos, as well as for those who have not worked with asbestos themselves, but who have lived in the same house, were family members, were spouses of people who brought home asbestos dust and who, unfortunately, have given them very special diseases caused by asbestos. It is pulmonary cancer as the major disease, but it is also about uterine cancer and testicular cancer, which thus has a very special triggering factor as a result of asbestos. There we have agreed on legislation, we have agreed on a compensation scheme, and it is now placed in the Finance Act. That is the challenge, and that is why we now have a legislative proposal here to create a very separate law for precisely this compensation scheme for second-hand asbestos victims. It's the right thing to do. There is no change in relation to the conditions for obtaining the allowance, it is simply a question of placing this allowance in the right place, in terms of legislation. That's why we Social Democrats are happy about this bill, because we've fought these patients' cases all the way through with good colleagues here in the Folketing. I have to say from both the Radical Left and the SF that they also support the bill as it has been put forward here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419135536	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419135546	To start, I would like to say that, when you read the title, perhaps many listeners do not quite know what we are talking about at all, so I would like to start by talking about what asbestos is. After all, it was a building material that was used because of its good qualities in construction. However, it was found at some point that the material, consisting of a fine fiber structure, was dangerous to breathe. It was the dust from this material that sat in the lungs and that has helped people to develop what is called stone wings or asbestosis, and it was once banned in the 1970s or 1980s. Then you might ask: why the hell are we talking about this today? That's because many of these workers were in close contact with asbestos, and there were a lot of people who contracted pulmonary cancers and other forms of cancer, for example. Aalborg, where there was also an eternit factory. The problem has then been that many years later, it was found that some of the women who were married to the workers were now only men who worked at the factory then, it was then, it was modern that it was the men who were working and the women who washed clothes that got the same disease because they had to do with the clothes. They shook it, and the dust was inhaled, and in this way they also contracted this pulmonary cancer. I think it was last year but then discovered that there were other relatives of these asbestos victims who could not receive compensation as was the case, and not a replacement, and it is a small hand-out for some people who have suffered a serious illness. It can be said that the proposal itself can show just how dangerous some products are. As a child, you can grow up among some parents and think you are healthy, but 20-40 years later you suddenly get a disease because of your father's work. So, of course, we support the proposal and hope that there are people who will benefit from it here and see it as a small patch on the wound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419135833	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419135841	Thank you. With the 2016-2019 tariff pool agreement, we decided to set up a compensation scheme for second-hand asbestos victims. We decided to expand that scheme with the 2018-2021 rate pool, which is why we are gathered here in the Parliament Hall. With the bill here, we ensure that access to redress is regulated in a separate law. With the law here, we create a legal basis that benefits applicants when they seek compensation. Asbestos has been banned since the 1980s, and that is with good reason. Asbestos is harmful to health and we now know that it can be the cause of various types of cancer. One of the cancers is pulmonary cancer, a very serious and incurable disease. Statistics show that one year after the diagnosis is made, 50% of the population will be affected. of the patients have died. So there is no doubt that exposure to asbestos can have severe consequences. In particular, it is men who have previously worked with asbestos who have been diagnosed with asbestos-induced cancer, but also, for example, with asbestos. the spouses or children of those who have worked with asbestos may be affected. Second-hand exposure may include: If a spouse shakes the working clothes of the day for dust before it is placed in the washing machine, that is precisely why all parties behind the pool agree that all households who have been in direct or indirect contact with asbestos should be able to seek compensation if they become ill with asbestos-induced cancer. The draft law we are discussing today does not alter the current conditions for seeking compensation. The bill merely ensures that there is a clear legal basis to apply. The Left can support the bill as tabled, and I welcome it from the Conservative People's Party and say that we can do so here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419140041	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419140047	Thank you. We can also support the bill here by Enhedslisten. As my good colleagues have explained, it is a matter of ensuring a legal framework for those who have become ill as a result of asbestos by other means, as they say, not those who have directly had to do with it, but those who have been taken home by washing clothes or by taking these asbestos fibres home, then have inhaled them and have become ill. As you know, we are not included in the agreement, which comes from the rate pool, and this is because we are not included in the rate pool at all. After all, the rate pool is financed by failing to regulate every year the retirement pension, early retirement pension and other transfer income in line with the rest of society's prosperity development. This means that people who are on transfer income are lagging behind everyone else. We do not think this is a fair way of financing our social policy. It should be all of us who are helping to pay for the social policy we have. So that's why we're not in the bet pool. I also think it is relevant to mention the rate pool in this context, because in this case, at least for the time being, a time limit has been set that it is only possible to obtain compensation up to and including 2025. But we know that there is a very high risk that there will be far, far more cancers, which have been triggered by asbestos, even after 2025. This is because there can be many years between contact with asbestos and the development of the disease. It can take up to 60 years. But this is also due to the fact that asbestos is still absent in our society in old buildings and that asbestos is seen if buildings, for example, are built. gets torn down, swirls around, and if you don't have the right handling, it can also mean that you can get sick from it. That is why we also think it is important to see this in a more, what to say, overall context, namely in a context in which we are trying to have an entirely asbestos-free Denmark. There are still up to 120-130 Danes who are diagnosed with pulmonary cancer every year, and over 300 people who suffer from asbestos, according to Cancer Control. And it is especially the people who work to remove asbestos who are particularly vulnerable, especially if you work in smaller companies who are not aware of how it is handled properly. We think it would be wise to have a national asbestos action plan, as the WHO has also called for, and we are also following the work of the Employment Committee to fully eliminate and prevent asbestos damage in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419140401	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419140410	Thank you. The bill implements an agreement from the rate pool and must ensure that all second-handed asbestos victims have the necessary access to claim compensation. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419140429	Thanks for the exact report. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419140437	Thank you. Since 1986, when we really found out how harmful a product we were dealing with is asbestos, fortunately a lot has happened. Both the supervision and the law in this area have been considerably tightened up today. It is now illegal both to use and to peel asbestos materials themselves, because we have become more aware of the disease hazards that come with the material. Therefore, it is also time to legislate now on the compensation that should be possible for those affected by the secondary diseases of pulmonary cancer arising from the inhalation of asbestos dust and fibres. The development of the disease can take up to 30-40 years, and that is why we must ensure that those people who are affected by cancer many years later receive compensation. That is why we are pleased to be part of the pool of rates agreement where we are granting and financing this compensation scheme. And that's why we're also for L 214.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419140604	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Then we have actually reached the Minister, and it is still the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419140615	Thank you and thank you for your comments on the bill. After all, the bill implements the 2015 and 2017 rates pool agreements and ensures that persons who have developed asbestos-induced cancer after second-hand exposure with asbestos are entitled to reimbursement under specified conditions. After all, this is a system that has been in force since 1 January 2016 and the need for the scheme originally arose from, as some of the rapporteurs have also said, women were second-handedly exposed to asbestos fibres when they washed their men's work clothes, for example, and in this way they were given asbestos-induced pulmonary cancer. Subsequently, it has become apparent that children, siblings of persons who have been directly exposed to asbestos fibres, have also developed cancer as a result of indirect exposure. It may be children and siblings in the household, and we have also seen that there was not only asbestos-induced cancer in the pleural membrane, but also in the tubular membrane and in the testicular membrane. Therefore, we chose politically to extend the scheme with effect from 6 October 2017, which is why this bill is, in such a way, a legislative proposal that ensures that the scheme will also apply up to 2025 and, in the interests of potential applicants, will be based on a separate legal basis. The aim of the draft law is not to change the conditions for obtaining compensation under the existing system. It is to ensure that we have a proper framework for the payments of compensation that are taking place. I am, of course, available for questions in committee, and otherwise I hope for support for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419140812	In any case, we thank the Minister now. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419140828	The negotiations are open and we start with the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419140851	Thank you, and thank the authors of this motion for a resolution, which gives us an opportunity to put psychiatry back on the agenda, including here in the Chamber. There is no doubt that efforts for people with mental illness are high on the agenda of the government, and I would therefore like to repeat what I said in this Chamber almost a month ago in connection with B59 on drug-free offers in psychiatric medicine and in connection with the question debate back in December last year. There is a need to prioritize psychiatry in Denmark, and this was also the reason why the government, together with the Danish People's Party in December last year, agreed to draw up a comprehensive plan for the development of psychiatry in connection with the adoption of the proposal for adoption in the question debate under the F4 debate. on the basis of the management review of the psychiatry, as it is also called in the popular press which we launched from the government back in January last year. People with mental disorders must be offered, as well as people with somatic disorders, a coherent effort of high and uniform quality. Against this background, I find the proposal's premise of close cooperation between the individual patient and the doctor in the treatment of psychopharmaceuticals sympathetic, and I also agree that good cooperation is essential when the withdrawal of psychopharmaceuticals begins. However, I do not agree that doctors should always be required to draw up a descent and withdrawal plan for treatment with psychopharmaceuticals, and that this should be done even when the treatment is initiated. Not two patients are alike, including patients with psychiatric disorders, and therefore psychiatric services must be able to offer patients diverse interventions, non-uniform, rigid, standardised solutions that will feel like duties when widely different people with different diseases and needs have to be squeezed into the same inflexible template. Therefore, it is also a question of trusting our healthcare professionals in order to be able to make the individual assessment of when it is relevant to draw up a phasing-out plan. Should it already be when you initiate treatment with psychopharmaceuticals, and when is there a need, just as to see if there is any effect of treatment before you start talking about a phasing-out plan, and when is there a need to continuously adjust and thus also have a dynamic phasing-out plan where you have a dialogue between the patient and the health care professional? The government cannot support the proposal that all patients should have a mandatory withdrawal plan already at the start of psychopharmaceuticals, precisely because we often do not know the effect of the medicine on the patient in question even before the treatment is started. If we are to delve into some of the reasons, even more professionally, that the government does not want to support the resolution, then the main reason for this is, first of all, highly professionally. According to the Danish Health Authority, a mandatory withdrawal plan prepared at the start of treatment will not improve the quality of a course of treatment. For example: It is rarely possible at the start of treatment to predict how long depression will last and thus how long psychopharmaceutical therapy should last. Some sufferings, for example. anxiety disorders, can be lifelong. What is important, as I said before, is that the treatment should be carried out in accordance with the current guidelines and on the basis of a thorough analysis, and that the treatment should also be followed and reviewed on a regular basis. Secondly, as a starting point today, the patient may at any time demand an escalation of his medication. Only patients who are forcibly medicated do not immediately have that right. And judging a doctor to be without the skills needed to carry out a specific escalation, the doctor has the opportunity to refer to or confer with a specialist in psychiatry. Thirdly, the requirement for a treatment plan already exists in many places, for example. by hospitalization of a patient in a psychiatric ward. The Chief Medical Officer responsible for the treatment is responsible for the establishment of a treatment plan for the patient. It follows from the Psychiatry Act. The plan is also intended to provide guidance to the patient about the purpose of admission, stay and treatment and the prospects for improvement, including a position on possible termination of treatment, withdrawal of medication and the like. Regarding the treatment of children and young people, the Danish Health Authority's guidance on the medical treatment of children and young people with mental disorders from 2013 shows that a treatment plan is to be prepared for this group. Among other things, it must: contain a plan for the expected duration of the treatment, the check and, where appropriate, the end date, and it is further specified that after 3 and 6 months, and every six months thereafter, the specialist will have to decide on the continued medical treatment. The purpose of the treatment schedule is therefore the same as any withdrawal plan, but treatment plans are less rigid and can better meet the patient where the patient is in his or her course of treatment. That is why I do not think it appropriate for patients to have a mandatory withdrawal plan even when starting treatment with psychopharmaceuticals. Professionally it makes no sense, and administratively it will take up time for health professionals and cause trouble out there. Instead, I see it as a fundamental right that all patients should be involved and consulted along the way in their course of treatment and from there the necessary medical course is offered with appropriate adjustments along the way. Decisions as to whether the patient or the patient's treatment should be taken with the patient, and this has also been stated in the chapter of the Health Act on patient involvement. It is thus a principle in both somatics and psychiatry that health care is there for patients and must be based on what creates value for the patient. This is also why we work broadly with our healthcare system with PRO data in order to ensure that the patient gets to the centre of treatment much more than the approach may have been in the past. Fourthly and lastly, we must remember that the development of psychopharmaceutical consumption is fortunately going the right way, both in children, young people and adults. For example, from 2010 to 2016, the number of children starting treatment with antidepressants has decreased by just under 50%. Children and young people's consumption of antipsychotics has also decreased, while their consumption of ADHD drugs has stagnated. For adults, a similar trend is seen in which the number of people treated with psychopharmaceuticals below one from 2010 to 2016 has decreased by 10%. equivalent to 741,200 adult patients received it in 2010 compared to 667,400 in 2016. I think that this shows that there is an increased focus on the use of alternatives to psychopharmaceuticals and also a better involvement of patients, and that these debates we have, sometimes so little, can draw a wrong picture of what the development is really in psychiatry and what it is for a dialogue and reality that is among doctors and patients. I also think that the figures confirm that there is an increasing awareness on the part of doctors that medical treatment for mental disorders should not be the first choice in most cases and that there are a number of alternatives to medical treatment. I think that is a positive development, which we have also estimated and which we should appreciate, and that is a development that I welcome. So, for those reasons, the government cannot support the proposal that, as a principle, a mandatory withdrawal plan should be drawn up by the discharge of psychopharmaceuticals, and that is why I do not think it should be an element of the overall plan of action for psychiatry. However, I would like to thank the rapporteur for putting the psychiatry back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419141717	Thank you. This gave rise to a brief remark from Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419141722	Thank you. This isn't about for or against medicine. It's about the right to maintain the hope of recovery. And this is very much in line with the recovery idea, which, incidentally, characterizes psychiatry, fortunately, i.e. it is precisely one's own participation in the treatment and the hope of recovery that helps to make people feel better. Since so many people experience side effects of the medicine and experience a lack of efficacy of the medicine, why can it not be a dialogue from the start? I mean, I heard the Minister's reply that there is a treatment plan, but you already change a lot of things in a treatment plan. You can do that all the time, depending on how it develops. But that's the thing about saying: Now you're getting some medicine to help there right now and here, but you don't have to have that all the time. After all, this is the dialogue that I would like to have to start as early as the moment you print psychopharmaceuticals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419141826	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419141829	Well, I think that the big difference is whether you make it mandatory and say that this is something that needs to be filled in for all patients and that you cannot start psychopharmaceutical treatment without having made an escalation plan even when you give it the first time. I mean, I think it's going to be square. I think it will be a paper tiger to which the employees should relate, rather than that it is precisely the dialogue with the patient, where you look each other in the eye and just talk about the hope that you are well on the other side of your illness, rather faster than slower. But it is also the recognition that because one has the same diagnosis, one's course of illness is not the same. For some, it may even be such a pressure if they are not stepped out of the medicine that, uh, it must be because things are going worse than they should. Instead, it should be recognised that for some it is a more long-term course of medicine, and for others it is a short-term process in which we must be able to implement an escalation plan so relatively quickly if we can see that there is a change. So this is the approach that I think is too square and too little individual-oriented; it's not a question of not having a recovery approach in our psychiatry in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419141931	Thank you, Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419141935	I do not think I have spoken in favour of this being such a standardised phasing-out plan. I have spoken in favour of this being part of the treatment plan which, moreover, is being put in place that we should also be stepped out of medicine. I am not assuming that the Minister sees treatment plans in such a general way as paper tigers, but that they are, on the contrary, a means of describing a course that may change, because the condition can change all sorts of things can change. So it is, after all, a question of getting it written in as an entirely natural part of the treatment plan that something is now being put into effect and that it should not last forever. I would like to ask a question, because the Minister is saying here that it may take a long time and that it should therefore be taken. I just want to hear: does the Minister set the duration of a medical condition equal to the duration of the medical treatment?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419142025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419142028	No, I don't, but there are some patients who need medical treatment for a long time, and there are some who need it for a shorter period of time. And I think that you should relate to people as the individuals they are, and with the differences that are also in their course of illness, despite the fact that they have the same diagnosis. That is, in fact, what lies in the whole approach, namely that it must be individual. Then I just have to say that I see this as a paper tiger in the sense that we should then relate in here to whether an escalation plan has now been drawn up for all patients from the very beginning. Did the psychiatrist do this now? And I don't think that's the way they should use their resources. I think that the treatment plan is a very good tool to also have the ongoing dialogue, and I think that the development in terms of involving patients more, including using PRO data, is very important to develop both our psychiatry and our somatics in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419142118	Thank you. There are therefore no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. We are moving forward and starting with the series of rapporteurs. It's sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419142134	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking the SF for once again bringing the psychiatry to debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber. It is necessary and it is good. That is not to say that I agree with the SF in their motion for a resolution, and I will of course elaborate on that. One thing is certain, however, and that is that we have a very great shared responsibility for the fact that we are also being followed up with primary resources, but also political support for psychiatry. Because we have challenges in psychiatry, both in the regional treatment psychiatry, but also in the municipal part of the country's 98 municipalities. So we need to focus on it. I would like to say that I do not think that the resolution here focuses on what we in the Social Democratic Party consider to be the biggest problems, and that is actually a little fugitive with what the Minister for Health has already said about treatment plans. The social democratic approach to the principles of treatment itself is, of course, based on making use of the highest professional standards and the best knowledge in the whole field of psychiatry. That is one point. The second point is that when you start a treatment, you start it with the consent of the patient. This means that you have a doctor, a psychiatrist, and it may also be a specialist psychologist or others involved in the discussion with the psychiatric patient about what treatment options there are and what the expected impact of the treatment strategy will be. But, of course, you will also, if it's about medications, there are many who have side effects of medications, and there are also some who become addicted to medications, focus on having that discussion with the patient from the start. Having the discussion between the treating physician, the psychiatrist, and the patient is an indispensable basic element in having consent and trust. When the SF then puts forward the motion for a resolution here to draw up a mandatory withdrawal plan, I interpret it somewhat as if there is a scepticism about the use of psychopharmaceuticals. We do not have that scepticism in the Social Democratic Party, because it is based on professionally well-founded action and decision, and there is a discussion between psychiatrist and patient about whether to start a treatment with psychopharmaceuticals. This should include a discussion, if you start medical treatment, of how and when you decide on a possible withdrawal or a stop to medical treatment. It is, of course, an ongoing assessment that needs to be carried out, and there are a lot of people who set out in the action plans, when to discuss it again and find out whether there has been the desired effect, or whether the side effects are too large, whether adjustments have to be made in the medicine dose or whether the patient may have to step out completely. So we do not have a fundamental scepticism about psychopharmaceuticals, but we are of the opinion that no patients should be given either too much or too little medicine. We must have what is the best treatment, and that is, of course, the result of a close discussion between the patient and the treating physician. In relation to whether to do something mandatory, we have the fear that if you get things done too rigidly and put into too fixed systems, you do not give more responsibility, but then you may remove a greater part of the doctor's responsibility towards the individual patient. So it is always the cooperation between the patient and it may also be with the relatives and the doctor that results in what plan and what adjustments and evaluations should be in this area. If we make too much compulsory withdrawal plans, what I am saying is that we may be neglecting exactly the professional reflection that must always be there and that we must never deprive the individual doctor responsible for treatment. For that responsibility is the responsibility of each individual at all times. So our starting point is that it is professionalism that must prevail. We're all agreed that the National Health Service should follow the area closely. The Minister has mentioned this, and that is what we are doing, and this is also due to previous political discussions on the use of medicines in our health services at all. This is particularly true if we are dealing with some product groups that can also be addictive and addictive, or if you find that the side effects may even get a different character from what you thought when you started prescribing the medicine. But once again many thanks to the SF for bringing it up. I do not think this is an area we should give priority to imposing a new political framework in relation to professionalism. We are, of course, in agreement that we should follow it very closely, but we do not think that this calls for us to act politically for the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419142716	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419142721	I'd just like to compare it with some of the other treatment interventions that are in psychiatry. They also have an end date. In other words, with a lot of the packages you know how long they last and when they end, you don't need to get rid of them in the same way, but there is some time horizon in it. And what I am concerned about in one way or another is making it clear that this is something to be considered. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur if he can recognise that the end date of both the patient and the doctor thinking in other forms of treatment, because they know that it has to be replaced by something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419142806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419142809	No, I do not really understand the end dates, but I understand very well that you make evaluation stop dates, so that you get a look at whether you have achieved the desired effect, whether the patient has a real understanding of what it is, the medical treatment should do, and whether the patient has a real understanding of what side effects may be. I think that is very sensible, but it is already in the treatment plans and strategies. Something is being put in place because the psychiatrist and the patient agree on this, since there is a lot of psychopharmaceuticals that have a very long onset effect, which means that it may have to be several months or six months before you can see whether there has been a desired effect, it is deeply sensible and also necessary and crucial that those dates are set. I think that can give a really good trust between the two, it can provide good security for the patient, and then you can make necessary adjustments if needed. But calling it an end date in a treatment and strategy context, which may have to last for many years, does not make much sense to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419142927	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move forward, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419142937	I would also like to start by thanking the Socialist People's Party for putting forward the proposal, so that we have the opportunity to debate how to ensure that the doctor not only focuses on prescribing the medicine, but also focuses on making a plan that ensures that you as a citizen do not become a drug addict. Having said that, however, we in the Danish People's Party would have liked the whole area of medicine to be included in the proposal and that it was further clarified that there are some citizens who do not need escalation and who live a good life with their medicines. Every time we discuss medicine and I have been one of the biggest advocates of reducing the amount of medication and instead of using therapies, I also get some inquiries from people who say: Now I've been getting my antidepressants for some years and I don't want to get rid of it. So we must remember that some people's quality of life depends on continuing to take their medicine. We also hear that there are some who say that it is the state that makes people dependent on medicine and, unfortunately, there is no real help to them when they want to get out of the abuse that it has become. Today we have smoking rehabilitation courses, we have treatment guarantees for alcohol abuse, we have help for heroin addicts and so on. etc., but we do not actually have anything for drug addicts who have become addicts instead of being users. Actually, I think we should do something about that. That is why I propose that we sit down together and make a report on this matter in general, whether it is a matter of hospital or of general practice, and whichever type of medicine is involved. Some of the proposals contained in the text written by the Socialist People's Party can be reused there. It says, of course, that the proposers want a new principle to be introduced in connection with the discharge of psychopharmaceuticals. Here, for example, there could be one. be associated with the discharge of medicine. The proposers propose that when medicinal products are printed, a targeted reduction or withdrawal plan should always be followed. You could make that a plan. In other words, if you modified some of these things, I think we would actually hit much more broadly and hit more generally. We would also ensure that we would provide help to those people who really need to get rid of their medicines. They're fighting today because there's no help. I think that is actually a huge problem, too, in terms of getting some medicine that helps. I also agree with the Minister who said that it is not exactly in the emergency situations that you sit down and make a plan. There you get some medicine because you might be aggressive or hurting yourself. There's gotta be some emergency medicine right now. It may be for a few days that you get the medicine, and then you don't have to go in and make a plan. It must be when medicine is given over a longer period of time that you go in and say that there must be a plan. But it must also apply to opioids, sleeping medicines, etc. I know that legislation has been tightened up and therefore it would be nice to see what the legislation is like now with regard to the printing of medicines. We also get a lot of inquiries from people who are really annoyed that they have to go to the doctor every time they need a prescription. Have we tightened the legislation too much that way? That is why I think it is a very fine and very important debate that we are taking, but I would like to see it spread across the whole area of medicine.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419143337	There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419143340	Thank you. And thanks for a very constructive response I think it sounds interesting to look a little wider on drug addiction. I would also just like to know whether the rapporteur himself has already given some thought to what measures could be taken to help. The rapporteur points out here that there is no help if you want to get out of your drug addiction. Has the rapporteur himself had any ideas or thoughts about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419143413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419143415	We have had a lot of thoughts about it, and that is also why at one point we proposed a medicine-free department, which has become where you help people in the psychiatric community to step down or get out of their drug use. But it is often only those who have been in hospital. There are a great many patients who have been up with their general practitioner or a specialist and who, like, do not get out there. And I want it to embrace them all. There are many who cannot get help when they have been up with their general practitioner and received antidepressants and cannot really get out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419143447	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419143455	If your back hurts, it can relieve you with a pill for a stinging pain, but it may also be good to massage the sore point. If you have hives, a pill can relieve an itchy arm, but it can also be good with a cold bath. If you suffer from depression, a pill can relieve a sad mind, but it can also be good with physical activity. This is the case with many diseases, both physical and mental, there may be more treatment options. Whether you choose medicine or an alternative, it is crucial for us in the Left that the choice is made on the basis of the dialogue with the doctor and that you together find out which model, if you may say, is best suited to the disease you have and the person you are now. Some people will intuitively have an alternative solution as the first choice, others will without blinking as intuitively choose a more conventional form of treatment. But no matter what, it must be in the interests of the individual to choose the treatment that has the best chance of making a healthy. I would like to thank the proposers of the SF for focusing on an important area of medicine in psychiatry. Much has happened in the use of psychopharmaceuticals in recent years. For children and adolescents, treatment with psychopharmaceuticals has decreased significantly. From 2010 to 2016, there has been a decrease of almost 50%. the number of children starting treatment with antidepressants. And among the adults there is also a positive development. Here the figures show that during the same period, i.e. from 2010 to 2016, there are 10%. less in treatment with psychopharmaceuticals. The development is seen from my chair positive, because it means that an increased focus on drug use in psychiatry has borne fruit. Today we have a number of alternative treatment options, cognitive therapy, light therapy and mindfulness, to name but a few. And it is important to stress that medication should not always be the first choice, just as it is important to stress that medical treatment fine can go hand in hand with non-medical offers. The authors of the motion for a resolution want Parliament to introduce a principle of a mandatory withdrawal plan every time a patient in the psychiatry is prescribed psychopharmaceuticals. In the Left, we fully agree that there must be close cooperation between the doctor and patient throughout the treatment with psychopharmaceuticals, even when the patient starts to step out of the medication. However, we do not believe that a mandatory phasing-out plan is the right tool for patients or practitioners. And there are several reasons for this. A psychiatric illness is rarely predictable. That is why we in the Left believe that we should be very careful to put an end date on the process from the outset. An escalation plan will not necessarily be a tool to improve the quality of treatment. And I can be concerned that such a plan would rather contribute to unnecessary bureaucracy in the health care system and might even make it easier for the patient to get the right treatment at the right time. We have the treatment plan today. On the other hand, it is crucial that the patient is closely monitored during his or her course and knows the possibilities available for helping to step out. And it is important to remember that as a patient you can always ask to be stepped out of the medication if you are not just forcibly medicated, just as it is quite natural that the doctor in charge of treatment should talk to the patient when you make the treatment plan, what the course should be and what the goal of the treatment is. Last but not least, it is important to stress that medical treatment also follows a minimum mean principle. In the Left, we are concerned with ensuring a good health service across somatics and psychiatry. Since the change of government, we have raised health care by 4.4 billion. kr., and it is money that has benefited both the psychiatry and the somatics. Especially children and adolescents in psychiatry have a place in my heart. That is why I am also pleased that, in this year's pool agreement, we prioritised more than 200 million. kr. We must ensure that we see much more of the children and young people who, for one reason or another, show signs of dissatisfaction, so that we can offer them an offer of help before they become patients in the psychiatry. I know that it is a great wish from the SF to offer free psychological assistance to young people, which is why it is also very good that with the latest pool agreement we also prioritise funds for free psychological assistance for young people between the ages of 18 and 20. These are interventions that make much more sense to me, prevention, because in the long term, we can ensure that fewer patients become patients in the psychiatry and thus avoid getting acquainted with psychopharmaceuticals. Last but not least, I look forward to the forthcoming Psychiatry Action Plan on which the Minister for Health is currently working. We in the Left have the ambition of a better psychiatry, also better than the one we have today. The Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, but agrees with the approach advocated by the authors of the motion for a resolution, that is to say that the discussion should be based on the individual. I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they cannot support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144008	There is one brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144011	Thank you. I am very much in agreement with all that about prevention. I don't think this proposal solves all the challenges in psychiatry either. But there are a lot of patients who experience that they are not getting better and that they have a lot of side effects. The rapporteur says that nobody is the same, and I fully agree with that. But how do you know as a patient that you actually have an opportunity to get out of your medication if it is not a mandatory part of your treatment plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144052	Well, it is absolutely crucial, when the doctor and the patient together make the treatment plan, that you also take the talk about what the consequences might be of starting up a medical treatment. What is to be expected; what might the patient expect from side effects? I think it would be quite natural for the doctor to tell the patient about both the advantages and the disadvantages, and there are side effects, but also that you take the talk about how far you can expect such a course of treatment to be. I think it is quite natural that we should also talk about what an escalation could be like in this context, without, however, setting an end date. Because, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, psychiatric treatment is often difficult to foresee in detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144134	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144138	Well, that's exactly it. I fully agree that as a patient one should be involved in the fact that it should also go that way; that at some point one should look at being withdrawn from the medicine again. So I don't quite understand the resistance. Since it is so natural, what is the reason for the great opposition to it being included as a mandatory part of the treatment plan to be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144204	Well, what I'm saying is that for us in the Left, it is as a natural part of the treatment plan that the doctor and patient take the talk in relation to what the course of treatment is facing. What are the advantages, what are the disadvantages, and what to expect as a patient? That is, of course, what lies in the informed consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144222	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144230	Thank you. Thank you to the SF for tabling this motion for a resolution that, when the psychopharmaceuticals are printed in the psychiatry, a targeted withdrawal plan for the patient's medical treatment must always be included. I would like to start by saying that we share the SF's view that it is absolutely crucial that the individual patient has the opportunity to choose to step out of psychopharmaceuticals himself, that help can be given to cope with the symptoms, in the event that you step out of medicines that cause side effects, and that, of course, there must also be support measures around the patient that can help and support the patient when you start your escalation. For me, it is closely linked to the informed consent that there is also a right for the patient to have an escalation plan if you wish. It is not necessarily the same as that in all cases it has to be done as a mandatory exercise. I think it is important that there is a connection with the fact that the patient is actually asking for it. One might consider whether one should introduce a requirement that one should follow up on it after some time, if that does not happen. As you know, it is not the intention of the vast majority of psychopharmaceuticals to be in treatment for a long time. I also agree with the SF in its comments and, as we have also discussed in the past, that in psychiatry today far too much emphasis is placed on medicine and on biomedical approaches to disease and treatment and too little emphasis on other approaches and on other forms of treatment, for example. psychotherapeutic therapy, etc. So I have to say that in this debate I may be a little in line with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I think there are some elements in the proposal and a good idea in the proposal, but I am not sure that it is right to introduce a compulsory phasing-out plan. There are also other groups that I also think are relevant to include. The Danish People's Party mentioned the patients who have become addicted to painkillers. There are also other types of medicine that you become addicted to, for example. sleeping medicines, sedatives, which can also be highly addictive, and which can also give really strong withdrawal symptoms if you step out. There is, of course, in principle the possibility of helping abuse at our abuse centres. However, I think that such a discussion here should also take a position on how this abuse treatment actually works. I have the impression that there are very varied quality at the various abuse centres and that there are also very, very different approaches. In some places people report, for example. on compulsory escalation, which is very unpleasant and which also has quite different consequences. So it is also about how to practice the abuse treatment that already exists. So I would say that we are positive about the idea in the proposal, but we are more sceptical about this in introducing a mandatory plan. I would also like to welcome the Radicals, whose rapporteur is in negotiations at the same time as this meeting. She said that she is positive about the proposal and would very much like to cooperate on the issue, but she thinks that the problem is greater than what is outlined in this motion for a resolution and more complex than what is in this motion for a resolution. She thinks it would be a good idea to have a discussion about a report. So, with the brief summary of the position of the Radicals, I hope they also feel represented.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144626	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144630	I am a little concerned about what the rapporteur says about a right to an escalation plan as part of the informed consent, and I can actually follow that a long way along the way. Where I have a concern and the reason why we have formulated it as such a mandatory part is that there are also some patients who do not actually believe that they can live without it. Well, they don't think it's possible to get out of their drug addiction. So who is going to take this initiative? This is just like why we have also tried to write in that it should be mandatory. That's one thing. The other thing is in relation to this abuse thing. I would just like confirmation that, after all, there is a difference between an addiction created by a treatment and an addiction created by a consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144727	Finally, I would like to say that there are many other types of addictions that have been created by treatment than dependence on psychopharmaceuticals, such as sleeping medicines, sedatives, painkillers, but which are treated in the abuse centres, which then also take care of, for example. drug abuse. So it is just to say that I think that the discussion about how the abuse centres are treated is part of that, because I hear some deeply worrying things sometimes, for example. on compulsory escalation, which is very problematic in the way it is doing. So it's just to say that I think it's also a problem that goes with it. In relation to the other, I can easily understand the objection and the concern to leave it alone to the patient. That is also why I mentioned that I think it is possible to discuss whether there should be some obligation to look at it along the way. But I have to say that I share the concern expressed by others that if you put it as a real requirement in all contexts, you do not get anything that helps patients, so that it becomes such an automatic form that you fill out that you do not achieve the purpose you really want to achieve. I think we actually agree on what we want here, and that is why I think it would be a good idea to have a further discussion in the Committee on Health on how to achieve that objective. What could be the right thing to do? Should health legislation be tightened in this context in order to strengthen the rights of the patient and the duties of the doctor, or is it something else that needs to be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144844	We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419144852	Thank you. With this proposal, the proposers want us not to use psychopharmaceuticals unnecessarily by drawing up a mandatory phasing-out plan when psychopharmaceuticals are printed. Focusing on reducing the use of psychopharmaceuticals and using alternatives to a greater extent is really a good idea. I very much agree that it is • but it is actually also such a good idea that others have already got it. There is already systematic work to ensure other offers for people suffering from mental illness, and it can be seen that the use of psychopharmaceuticals is decreasing. But that is why I still agree that we must continue to focus on this important area. The proposers consider that a high degree of systematic degressivity is important because the process may be linked to withdrawal and relapse. I believe that expertise fully agrees with that. It's important that you don't just jump on and off psychopharmaceuticals. But, on the other hand, it is not always meaningful to make a phasing-out plan while at the same time printing the medicine. There may be large individual differences in how to react to the medicine. In some cases, some different preparations are tried to find one that maximizes the effect and minimises the side effects for the patient. Sometimes you have to wait and see how the patient develops with the product before it is meaningful to plan the decrease. Some will need psychopharmaceuticals for the rest of their lives. However, in all cases, as I have just mentioned here, a mandatory phasing-out plan will be a bureaucratic burden which will not benefit the patient on the contrary. It is good to focus on limiting use and making a well thought-out escalation, and we must make a lot of progress, but I do not think this is a viable path. So the Liberal Alliance votes against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419145107	There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419145111	I was just referring to one thing, as the rapporteur said and with which I very much agree, namely the fact that it is very risky to get off and on. The problem is that a number of patients, when they experience the discomfort of using the medicine for a long time or they simply want to get out of it, because there are so many side effects about it or they don't experience that it works as they might want, so do it of their own strength, and that's kind of the part of what I'm a little worried about. So how can we help them to step out?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419145147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419145151	I think it is very important that, if you experience these side effects as a patient, you talk to your doctor about it and that there is a good dialogue about it. I also think that the doctor has a duty to be aware of these things, i.e. whether there are side effects to this patient, and that then you have an engaging process where you talk to the patient and where together they find out what is best to do, i.e. whether it is best to reduce the medication, whether it is better to try to find another product, or what the best thing is in this individual situation, and it should be a professional, medical assessment that underlies it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419145225	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419145229	I believe that some of those who do so on their own initiative do so because they have not experienced support for it, that they have not experienced that someone has recognised their need to step out of it. That could be one of the reasons. So it's more a question of how we actually ensure that the individual patient is aware that it's an opportunity to get out of this again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419145253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419145256	I think this is a very relevant issue and I would like to say once again that what is important is that patients and doctors talk a lot together. Now there will soon be an overall plan for the development of psychiatric disorders, and I think that in this plan we should focus on these things and emphasise how important it is, both that the patient tells the doctor about his wishes and side effects, and that the doctor is aware of it, and that together you will find out what the best development for this patient is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419145325	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419145333	Thank you. Too many people in Denmark take psychopharmaceuticals, too many elderly people and too many children take antipsychotic and antidepressant medicines. According to Improved Psychiatry, 7% of patients were infected. in 2016 on antidepressants, and according to Better Psychiatry, psychosocial treatment methods work on an average four times better than drugs against depression among children and young people. It is therefore important for us in the Alternative that we have more focus on prevention and that they offer methods other than those of medicine in psychiatry, and that there is an opportunity to get help to step out of medical treatment. So the resolution we are debating today is in many ways in line with the health policy of the alternative. We want a different focus from what is today, namely a focus in which the patient's health is viewed from a global perspective. Psychiatry is very close to my heart and especially in relation to children and young people. It is also close to my heart to have a new view of diseases and treatment in psychiatry, that we get equal other methods of medicine, natural therapy, music therapy, body therapy, and that we recognise that a meaningful life means a lot to prevention and to treatment. We see that, for example. in the project Frirum in Psychiatry, which focuses on providing good and lovely content in everyday life with flowers, books and presence. The proposal for withdrawal plans for psychopharmaceuticals is therefore based on the spirit of the alternative. We want a health service with many more alternatives to medicine. Last year I myself stood in the Chamber with a similar proposal, B 125, with which we wanted to oblige the government to set up advisory teams to support and guide municipal and regional health houses in establishing complementary and alternative therapies. So, as I said, we are positive about the ideas contained in the SF's proposal. Nevertheless, we have some questions, just as we heard the previous rapporteurs who volunteered when we read the motion for a resolution. We want to give more opportunities. We do not necessarily want to make plans for everyone, regardless of their situation. SF writes a little cryptic that the withdrawal plan is mandatory, but at the same time it states that it must act as an offer. So I'm a little in doubt about what SF thinks there. Now the Minister has left, I think, but I would actually say that today is a great day, because I agree with some of the things that the Minister said in the opening speech, namely that we should not have a standard regime where things are triggered by default, in other words where standard treatments and standard methods are automatically triggered, because all people are different, and they must be seen and treated as such. We need to get away from the fact that a diagnosis triggers a standard treatment and a standard procedure. So, in relation to the specific proposal, we also ask ourselves, I think, that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was a little concerned about whether only psychopharmaceuticals should be included, or whether it should also include overuse and dependence on, for example, psychopharmaceuticals. sleeping medications and painkillers. In short, we support many of the intentions and ideas behind the resolution. We would like to work together to find good solutions based on the individual and the overall perspective, and we would like to create solutions that respond to a reasonable balance between medicine and complementary treatment, for example. non-medical treatment. So thank you to the SF for the suggestion. We want to help find a common solution, because we agree with the intention, but immediately we cannot say 'yes' or 'no' to this specific proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419145810	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419145820	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate and for a great many fine perspectives, I think, along the way. After all, the proposal is about introducing a principle that, when psychopharmaceuticals are released into psychiatry, there must always be an escalation plan, and there are several reasons why we believe that such a proposal is relevant and necessary. Firstly, we see today that the biomedical approach is often the prevailing approach in the treatment of psychiatric patients. We want to challenge the idea that medicine should be the primary and only solution to people's psychic state. We also know that there is a lot of other treatment going on in this, but a lot of people find it difficult to find their way to those alternatives. It is absolutely essential that patients have the right to self-determination and be involved in the decision on medical treatment, just as it is also the fundamental intention of the recovery-oriented approach that permeates psychiatry today. We believe that a principle of phasing out plans will help to support this. Because this will mean that the patient as well as the doctor will have to deal with escalation when the treatment is initiated. Secondly, it is also essential that the escalation be envisaged from the very beginning of medical treatment. We know that help, advice and guidance in the event of escalation are crucial to the progress of the escalation. The patient has the right and the need to be closely monitored during escalation, where potential and serious withdrawal symptoms occur. A safe and safe environment and close cooperation between patient and doctor are important when patients are to be dose-reduced or completely escalated by psychopharmaceuticals, and this proposal will also be able to accommodate this. Thirdly, escalation plans must help to ensure that all patients, regardless of their social or economic background, have the knowledge of the help they can actually get to escalate. So when both the patient and the doctor have to deal with the escalation of psychopharmaceuticals, it will necessarily also mean more information and awareness that medication is not necessarily a long-term or eternal condition, and this is important for the patient's hope for improvement. So when we in the SF are preoccupied with the use of psychopharmaceuticals in psychiatry, it is not about that we are against medication. The intention of this proposal and our approach to this area in general is to start a real debate and a movement that focuses on the fact that medicine should not always be the primary and only solution. I have listened to a lot of good input, and I think we may somehow be able to gather together on some report that could sum up some of the good perspectives that have been in this discussion. Because I can also listen to the fact that it does not make much sense to put forward a proposal for a vote which no one has fully supported. So, of course, I fully understand that, and I actually think that among other things. What both the Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten and the Alternative have highlighted, namely why not take several types of medicine, is a very good idea. I would also just like to say that this mandatory thing means that it is mandatory that you have to talk about it. In other words, it is compulsory to plan; it is not the same phasing-out plan or the same course that is mandatory for everyone. It is in fact to make it an integral part of the treatment plans that we propose it. However, I think it would be exciting to look at whether we can make sure in another way that citizens get a better insight into what their opportunities are for stepping out and better access to help when they need to be stepped out. So I hope that this will be the way in which we can meet in the next committee. But thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419150244	We thank the health politicians. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we start with a number of points in the area of justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419150302	The debate is open. Sir. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419150319	Thank you for that, President. The proposal before us now concerns the legal effects of a provisional ban on or the dissolution of an association. It is a serious proposal, but it also has a serious background. For we have been a little calm lately, but at least in 2017 we witnessed a violent gang conflict with shootings, killings, stabbings, threats and insecurity that suddenly became part of the reality and everyday life of ordinary citizens. Calm streets were turned into war zones, you couldn't move around freely, and the concern to send children to the playground was obviously great. We should not tolerate this in any way as a society, and we should not tolerate hard-boiled criminals thus housing our streets with firearms, shooting at each other and committing very, very serious crime. We will not see that lawlessness, as we saw it, prevails where innocuous citizens and businessmen must live a life of insecurity. That is why the Social Democratic Party has also repeatedly proposed initiatives which should help to strengthen efforts towards the biker gang environment in particular. We have helped to adopt the recently adopted gang package, which strikes down those who have tried and are still trying to tear Denmark apart. It's a gang package that both increases the penalties and has significantly greater consequences if you're involved in the gang environment and in gang conflicts. With this in mind, the Social Democratic Party can also support this proposal, which is of course about the fact that the prosecution, in other words the Attorney General, has agreed that a case can be brought against the gang grouping, i.e. Loyal to Familia. In this context, it is important that we also consider the possibility of taking advantage of the provisions of the Constitution to initiate initiatives as part of a provisional ban on such an association here. For this reason, the Social Democrats think it is very reasonable that this should be adjusted and adapted to the fact that there is, therefore, some indication that a case can be opened. In order not to go into a lot of detail, it is acting, among other things. on the fact that we then with this bill ensure that if, for example, a gang that may have been provisionally banned goes with characteristics it can be backmarks, sweaters, T-shirt and other things with the gang's characteristics you can ban it. You can also require people not to go to places where the gang typically lives, in other words to give what is called a residence ban. People related to the gang in question can also be required to leave an assembly so that they do not spread more insecurity than they have already done. It is a series of sensible initiatives which can help to strengthen the security of the street, if we get there, that a case can be initiated against this specific association, which is mentioned in the bill, i.e. Loyal to Familia. In principle, however, the changes here will also apply to other associations of this nature. So the Social Democratic Party can support the bill and we think it is quite reasonable that it should be adapted so that we also have the opportunity to launch these initiatives in connection with a provisional ban on such an association.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419150659	Thank you, sir. Morten Bødskov. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419150705	Thank you. The sun is shining, the birds are singing, and it is just a wonderful day, because the government has chosen to deal first with L 208, which goes on what to do if you choose to impose a provisional ban on an association. After all, we have been very interested in this matter in the Danish People's Party because we have long believed that it was necessary to impose a ban on gangs that threaten our security and are known to commit some of the worst criminal offences in this country. That is why we very much welcome the fact that the government has now put forward this bill, which is of course intended to combat the gangs very effectively. We have in the past tabled a motion for a resolution on gang bans, and we regard the government's proposal as something that is clearly moving in the right direction. This is particularly in relation to the possibilities the proposal will offer for the confiscation of the values of these gangs. Of course, we think it is absolutely crucial that their values can be taken away from them. We also think it is very sensible for the police to be allowed, of course, to enforce a ban on gangs by being able to expel people from assemblies, to ban them, etc. We all see this as very, very positive initiatives, and I can therefore announce that the Danish People's Party naturally supports the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419150845	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419150851	Thank you. I do not think it is a surprise to anyone that there have been quite violent shootings this year, and the government has taken this extremely seriously. Among other things, you have... presented several gang packages • several comprehensive gang packages • and it is quite clear that you want maximum pressure on the gangs, maximum precautions taken. One of the measures under consideration is a ban on the gang LTF, according to section 78. This is certainly not a very easy matter, and it has therefore also been the subject of significant consideration by the National Attorney General and the National Police Commissioner, respectively, as to whether such a case could be successfully implemented. It has been estimated that this can be done, and the Copenhagen Police are preparing the case. It is quite a violent preparation that needs to be prepared. It has to be pointed out not only that crime is involved, but also that there is a crime that is structured around this gang structure. So it's a lot of work, and hopefully it results in you being able to file a subpoena for the city court. In this context, it is important that the measures which can be applied should also be applied as soon as possible, and not therefore only once the Supreme Court has once confirmed the possible dissolution of the association. That is why Article 78 of the Constitution states: 3, the possibility of implementing these measures at an early stage, i.e. when the application is lodged. That is why we are now implementing the necessary consequences that a legal action can bring, that is to say, the possibility of banning the use of the characteristics of the gang in question, the possibility of a residence ban, expulsion and, above all, confiscation and seizure of assets. This is all what I would call natural measures in the continuation of a matter of banning a gang. So this proposal has the absolute support of the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151104	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund, the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151110	I have to say, unfortunately, that it seems a little like the government, with this bill, is pre-empting the pleasures. For a long time, the government has been pressing for a dissolution by judgment of the gang group Loyal to Familia, also known as the LTF. And now this bill will have adopted a follow-up legislation in the event that it would actually be possible to implement a provisional ban and perhaps even a dissolution by judgment under Article 78 of the Constitution. On Saturday, a very disturbing article appeared in the newspaper Politiken. It was about Attorney General Ole Hasselgaard's very sudden departure on 23 February this year in mutual understanding, as was stated in the brief press release of the Ministry of Justice. Politiken promises in its thorough article that the departure of the Attorney General is probably linked to the government's intense political pressure to have the LTF banned and dissolved. As the comments on this bill that we are discussing today also state, the Attorney General, who is no longer a US Attorney, has considered that there is a basis for moving forward with a case for the dissolution of Loyal to Familia. However, readers of Politiken will know that according to several sources Ole Hasselgaard gave this assessment hand-in-hand and that this was not a legal but rather a political assessment. The fact that the now former Attorney General allegedly concluded that there were grounds to proceed with the resolution proceedings against the LTF is also striking in view of the fact that two former Attorney-Generals have conducted lengthy and very thorough investigations into whether the bicker group Hells Angels and the Islamist group Hizb ut-Tahir could be dissolved according to section 78 of the Constitution in both cases with a negative result. The newspaper Politiken's article from Saturday paints a very unsightly picture that the country's Supreme Prosecutor has been put under political pressure, which became so violent that it ended with the resignation or dismissal of the Attorney General, if you will. And it does not bode well for the future Attorney General's ability to resist political pressure, that from now on the post will be filled for years rather than as a permanent post of civil servant. Even today, there is a penalty clause in section 132a of the Criminal Code which is directed against persons who continue the activities of banned or dissolved associations. The penalty is two years in prison. The proposal we are now considering is to extend the scope of the criminal offence and extend the scope for seizure by the police, as well as to allow the police to issue a residence ban. In the Enhedslisten we see this bill as signal law, which is supposed to draw the image of a powerful government and keep attention to the government's ambitions to ban and dissolve Loyal to Familia. We in Denmark do not have a tradition of banning associations, and that is a good thing. If we ban associations, we risk making them particularly interesting and thus recruiting new members for them. If associations act in secret and outlawed, they are harder to control than if they are legal. There is no doubt that there are very many members of groupings such as the LTF and Hells Angels who commit crime. And they're going to jail for it, too. However, in a rule of law it must be a requirement for the prosecution to convince the courts in each criminal case that the defendant's guilt is beyond reasonable reasonable doubt. And in so many cases they succeed, as the crowded bikers and gangs in the country's prisons testify. Let us now see the final assessment by the future Attorney General of whether the LTF can be dissolved by judgment and, above all, whether our courts actually decide that the grouping should be dissolved. If that happens, we can discuss whether further follow-up legislation is needed. However, the situation in Section 132a of the Criminal Code and the seizure rules in Section 75 of the Criminal Code have already been taken into account today. 5. We in the Enhedslisten cannot support this bill, although of course we also strongly reject the gang groups that exist today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151537	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151541	Thank you. It is actually more than astonishment that I am in, because I am biting in the rapporteur's speech that Mrs Rosa Lund has read Politiken and some articles that have been about the former Attorney General. I think it is fresh that an article is being used in its rapporteur's speech, which has no sources that will be named and which are about a staff case and which, when I read the article, I was actually surprised that Politiken was going to bring. But something that makes me even more surprised is that there is a legal rapporteur who wants to use it from Parliament's platform. I just want to hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether there have been any thoughts about it, that is, that there are no sources on that story and how to use a staff case, which I assume is handled completely professionally, on Parliament's platform in a topical and very political matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151639	Well, I'd like to answer that, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen on. I think it is quite serious that it is the case that there is any suspicion that the prosecution is sauced into something that is political. And the fact that suspicion can be raised at all means that it does not appear to be an independent authority, and when it does not appear to be an independent authority, it is not perceived to be so, and that is why I think it is actually quite relevant in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151711	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151713	Thank you. I think it's more strange that a big newspaper in this country can make a story out of not having any sources that will come out with their names, and that a court rapporteur can bring a staff case from this newspaper to the Parliamentary Chair. And I really do not understand it, because it is a very, very political matter that we are discussing here, namely how to deal with the situation that the government at some point in the day and I will support the government completely if that is what the decision is about to impose a provisional ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151746-2	I find it very, very uncomfortable that there can be any doubt as to whether our public prosecutor is independent and I am shaken when someone does it and takes it very, very seriously. But maybe that's the difference between mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen and I.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151801	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151804	I just had to understand the previous exchange correctly. Is it true that the rapporteur's speech is based on suspicion and not on any facts?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151815	Yes, it is based on a suspicion and a suspicion which I think is quite serious. It is because I am of the opinion that the prosecution should not just be independent, it should also appear independent, so that there can be no doubt. And there have been doubts in this matter, and I think that is very serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151833	We thank Mrs Rosa Lund and move on to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419151840	Thank you. Let me start by speaking straight out of the bag: this bill is about gangs like the LTF, which the Copenhagen Police are currently examining whether one can dissolve according to section 78. You want to dissolve the LTF as an association because it works by violence. The bill we are discussing here will include: In future, it will be possible to seize the assets and other property of associations, such as those of the LTF, from the date on which the association may have been provisionally prohibited. It is also in the draft law that the police are given the power to impose a residence ban on persons associated with a prohibited or dissolved association in order to ensure that the association does not continue. So this is a rather intrusive legislative proposal; there is no doubt about that. At the same time, however, we are also in an unusual situation as a society. For example, the LTF is an association in which a large number of members are hardcore criminals who have been convicted of very serious personal crime. Unusual situations call for unusual solutions, and it is an absolutely crucial element in the government's gang effort that we come gangs such as... Loyal To Familia is to be put to death, and the bill that we are discussing here must be part of it. Freedom of association is rooted in the Constitution and is a very important principle in Denmark. However, it is equally clear in the Constitution that freedom of association does not apply to associations which act by violence, and the very fact that the association works by violence is being clarified. In a situation in which an association is dissolved, we must intervene and ensure that dissolved gangs actually cease to exist, and on that basis we support the Liberal Alliance bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419152036	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419152042	Thank you. We are here to deal with Bill 208, which deals with the dissolution of gangs and the legal effects of a provisional ban on or the dissolution of an association. I find this difficult, I would like to say, and that is why we have not yet taken a position in the alternative. There is no doubt that it would be nice if we could dissolve the gangs we know about at the moment and it is not only Loyalty to Familia, it is also Hells Angels and several others. Then we can have a long discussion about whether it will help if they do not work in secret and so on. I am actually of the opinion that when they exist, the police also know where they are dealing with them, and then I think it will be easier to beat them down. But having said that, it is grotesque that we have gangs that are so violent, as is the case among other things. is with Loyal to Familia. Then the Attorney General has now begun to assess whether we can dissolve the Loyal to Familia gang group under Paragraph 78 of the Constitution, i.e. whether we can prove that they work by violence. That is what we have not been able to prove in the past, among other things. Hell's Angels. Personally, I always wondered why you couldn't prove it, but you couldn't. That is why I can have my doubts as to whether it is possible to do so now. Some of the doubts I also have in this connection are: Now we are going to investigate Loyal to Familia but what if they are closed tomorrow? What if 90%? of the members say that now they dissolve the Loyal to Familia, but open up like a new gang with a different name? Is it the same investigation, or should we start over with a new investigation? The reason why I am asking this question is that we had a committee meeting with several experts and they tried to make the Legal Affairs Committee more aware of what is actually being done here. It is not just such a finger-tips case; it is a long process that you start to find out if you can make a gang illegal under the Constitution, if they work by violence. Now I see that there are many listeners, many young people, so I would like to explain that each Member can always be judged if it works by violence. It's much, much harder to assess whether an association works by violence... can you prove it? That is one of the challenges facing this situation in relation to the Constitution, because that is what one must be able to prove. There are parts that concern me in this proposal. Now we're going to start this investigation, and then a provisional administrative ban can be imposed on this association. What this bill is proposing is that, when a provisional administrative ban has been imposed, one would, for example, like: could punish people who are in contact with this association. I think it is problematic when it is an administrative ban that you can go ahead with it, and that worries me a little. That, of course, is also what the Institute for Human Rights is throwing itself at. On the other hand, I can see some sense in the fact that when a ban has been imposed, we must also be able to enforce it, and then we must be able to tell the people who associate with the gang or continue to wear their backmarks or whatever they do, that they should not be able to do so. So, as I'm sure you can hear, I haven't taken a position. I think this is a difficult discussion, and I would, of course, like to ask the Minister for Justice some questions and I look forward to the committee reading. And then, of course, we shall return to what we are finally talking about in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419152448	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419152455	Thank you. We fully understand the need for secondary legislation in relation to a possible ban on an association. The problem we have with this draft law is what was also mentioned by the Alternative's rapporteur, namely that it equates the consequences of breaching a temporary administrative ban with infringement of a ban which is the result of a judgment and thus a process before the courts. We have a problem with that. In particular, we also have a problem with this in the light of the discussion we have had on the Loyal to Familia case and the hints that the Attorney General has been under political pressure. I don't know what's up and down in that discussion. In fact, we do not have to rely solely on rumours and individual cases either, because it is already the case today that the Minister for Justice has the power of instruction in relation to the prosecution. This is clear from Section 98 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which gives the Minister of Justice the power to instruct the prosecution, among other things. I would also like to make a few comments on the matter. This is one of the things we need to dive a little more into before we take a position on this matter. In fact, does this mean that a minister can instruct the Attorney General to bring an action against a particular association without knowing whether there is any basis for it, but that it triggers this series of consequences, even if this is merely a provisional administrative ban, even on the basis of the opinion of the Attorney General, but of the political wishes of a minister? Is that the situation we are opening up to now? In any case, we will have to clarify that, and we really do not have to deal so much with the departure of the Attorney General, because if the matter is indeed that the Minister has that power today, then it is a real scenario, whether in the open or in the closed. That is what we need to deepen and drill ourselves into in order to be able to take a position on the proposal, in which we can, in general, see sense. So, how do you enforce a ban on an association? But, as I have said, we are concerned about the consequences of an administrative ban on an association which may be based on a political wish and therefore not on the fact that it is actually realistic that this association can be dissolved in accordance with the constitution. Actually, that's what's the basis for the Attorney General's assessment. It is, of course, that one only raises a case if one considers that there is reasonable reason to believe that the association can be terminated by judgment ■ that there is a basis for it. But as far as I know, this is not something that the Minister of Justice is necessarily required to do. That is what I would like an answer to. However, as I read the Code of Procedure, the Minister will also be able to instruct the prosecution, on the basis of a political wish, to bring an action against an association and thus obtain these provisional effects.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419152846	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419152903	Thank you. During the summer, Denmark experienced one of the worst gang conflicts in recent times. In 2017, we had the highest number of shootings related to the biker and gang conflict. Three people have died, and several innocent passers-bys have been hit. Why? Because two competing gangs are fighting over an area. For all of us ordinary people, it's completely incomprehensible, but the members of these gangs are so far beyond educational reach that they can understand only hard means. We're gonna have to deal hard with the gangs. That is why the government has put in place a large number of initiatives to combat hard gang crime. We have seen how the increased pressure from the authorities has put the gangs under pressure, but we must eliminate them completely. Therefore, the Minister of Justice has asked the Attorney General and the National Police to assess the possibility to dissolve the Loyal To Familia street bog by judgment, which the Constitution allows. It has been estimated that there are grounds for moving forward with a case, and this is the background to the legislative proposal we are discussing today. It acts among other things. to prohibit the use of the characteristics of a prohibited association, to allow the police to disband an assembly of gang members, and to allow us to seize assets in future if the association is banned by the government. These are all measures that will help to increase the pressure on the gangs, because we need to get rid of them. But it is also about sending a signal that here in Denmark you observe law and order, regardless of who you are and where you come from. If you want to create a community that aims to create insecurity and commit crime, there is no room for it in Denmark. It is an insult to all law-abiding citizens. The Conservative People's Party welcomes the fact that the Attorney General and the National Police have considered that a ban case can be initiated, and we hope, of course, that the case will be in favour of a ban on Loyal To Familia, but that is of course up to the courts. Of course, we support the proposed legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419153141	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. In fact, we have reached the point where it is now the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419153150	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the speeches and for the support for the proposal in general terms. In 2016 and 2017, we saw a marked escalation of conflict levels in the gang environment in Denmark. This led to a great many incidents of gunfire in public space, and it led to more killings. It goes without saying that such an act by the gangs is insane and untenable. Denmark must be a safe country to live in, and to stop the gang conflict, the government presented in March last year, together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, a gang package with a large number of initiatives. Following a further escalation of conflict levels in several parts of the country over the summer, the government launched 12 additional initiatives in August last year to tackle the problems. At the same time, and also in view of the escalation in the gang environment, I asked the Attorney General and the National Police to assess whether there were grounds for seeking the dissolution of the gang Loyal To Familia according to section 78. Loyal To Familia was very prominent in this conflict. The decision to prepare a resolution case is historic, and right now the resolution case against the LTF is anchored in the Copenhagen Police Department, and it is expected that the investigation of the case will be completed in this six months. When it is clear whether a resolution case will be brought before the courts, the government will decide whether to impose a provisional ban on the LTF. It is absolutely essential that a possible ban on the LTF be as effective as possible and become another important and useful tool in the fight against the gangs. That is why I have tabled the legislative proposal we are debating today. The aim of the bill is, of course, to give the police the best means of enforcing an association ban, so this is timely care, you might say. The bill clarifies section 132a of the Penal Code on the continuation of a prohibited association. We do this because we do not really know the scope of the provision. There must be no doubt that any activity taking place in an association after it has been provisionally prohibited or dissolved by judgment is punishable. It has to be done, for example. be absolutely clear that you cannot recruit new members for the association or continue the association under a new name. With the legislative proposal, we are also putting forward new initiatives. As something central and, of course, in my view, a ban on the characteristics of a prohibited or dissolved association is proposed. After all, it is absolutely essential that it should not be legal to stay in the public room wearing an LTF hoodie or cap if the LTF is prohibited. It is also a proposal that can help to increase the security of the population, because former members of a banned association will not be visible in the street through their backmarks. The draft law also provides new tools for the police to help prevent violations of an association ban. It is proposed that the police may prohibit persons who have been closely associated with a prohibited association from travelling or staying on certain streets, squares or parks if this is essential to ensure that the association is not continued. Such a ban must, for example: used to ensure that members of the association cannot meet at their usual locations if the police have information indicating that the association is continuing. It is also proposed that the police may order persons to be removed from an assembly if it gives rise to insecurity and a large proportion of the participants have been associated with a prohibited association. This proposal too must help prevent further activities in the banned association and contribute to increased public security. With these comments, I would like once again to thank the rapporteurs for the various speeches and look forward to the further discussion here in Parliament. I am, of course, available to answer any questions that may arise during the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419153553	We'll take the first questions here. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419153558	Thank you. And thank the Minister for a very good speech. I think it is essential, in the light of the debate that has taken place on this proposal, that the Minister should look at the discussion that has taken place about certain articles, run in Politiken, with regard to the Attorney General. Because I do not think you can have that kind of thing hanging on you or hanging on to a particular bill, so I would very much like to hear the Minister's comments on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419153625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419153625-2	Like the questioner, I was surprised by the almost absurd speech we heard here from the platform of Enhedslisten's Mrs Rosa Lund. Well, I need words. But I can tell you very clearly that the former attorney general was not fired. He has agreed with the Ministry that he will stop acting as a DA, and I will not go into it further. However, I can also confirm that the mutual agreement has not been reached on the basis of the dissolution proceedings against the LTF or other specific cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419153705	Thank you. The next is Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419153711	Thank you. Now I was so preoccupied with what the Minister said that I completely forgot what to ask. Yes, it was with the Minister saying in his speech, as I have heard now, that one cannot just shut down the association and then resurrect as a new association, and I actually think that it is best for a written question. So it is just whether the Minister has an immediate comment on it, because it is a question of proof. It is clear that if 100 per cent. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. What is in my question is, of course, also that of, if there is not, then it has to be a question of proof. So I guess you could get into a situation where a group lays down itself and some arise in a new way and some others may arise in a completely different way. So I guess you have to start over as a starting point. That is my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419153831	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419153833	I think Mrs Josephine Fock is right in saying that such an adequate answer is very well suited to a written answer. However, I would like to say here from the platform that it is not possible simply to circumvent a ban by making up a new name, and that would of course be an assessment. The crucial point will be whether it is really a question of continuing the association that has been dissolved or banned, and of course an assessment will have to be made as to whether it is an association with the same purpose, activities and membership, nor can one simply expand one's membership to look like a new association. In other words, there is a lot going on in the circle and in the activities, and I think we might be able to explain this more clearly in a written question. But it's not just something these people can laugh about and then bypass.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419153922	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419153924	Thank you for your answer. Then there is the preliminary administrative ban that the Institute of Human Rights points out, that is, that there may be problems with such an administrative ban, or that, what we should say, the measures proposed here are being implemented on the basis of an administrative ban. How will you make sure that you do not prevent freedom of association, freedom of expression and freedom of the backmark, I was just about to say, when this can be done by means of an administrative ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154001	First of all, I think we should remind each other that this is very, very special, and it is very, very rare that we should get into a situation I hope then that we should ban an association under the Constitution. If we are then faced with the situation and have to deal with a provisional ban and an administrative ban, then the basic law provides for the possibility of imposing a provisional ban when a dissolution procedure is initiated immediately. So that is to say, we can say: we are now banning the association. After all, it cannot be left alone, and the moment we say that we are now banning the association, we are taking legal action, and then the court must show whether the association should be banned or not. But until the court has spoken, that is the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154052	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154054	I'd like to read from the Code of Criminal Procedure. It's section 98. 3. It follows that: the Minister of Justice may order the public prosecutors to deal with specific cases, including starting or continuing, failing or stopping prosecutions. I should therefore like to know whether it is true that the Minister of Justice can instruct the Attorney General to bring an action against a particular association.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154130	It will be the case that I would never dream of doing so unless there was a factual reason for it. I mean, it would be pretty violent if I did it. I'm not just free to play. But I would very, very much like to be allowed to explain in writing the law that is behind it, because it is not just a question of answering. But what I can at least say very clearly is that when the Attorney General comes up with a professional attitude, of course I intend to initiate and follow it, if at all possible. However, if Mrs Zenia Stampe asks whether there is only complete carte blanche for a minister to do what you want, and there is absolutely no objectivity in the recitals, then the answer is that you cannot. But I would very much like to describe exactly what opportunities a minister has and does not have in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154229	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154233	I am glad that the Minister for Justice could not dream of doing so, but as I read the text and I would like a written answer to that, it is an opportunity for a Minister of Justice sitting at any time, and it might be that it was not Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Minister of Justice next time; maybe it was Mr. Poulsen. Peter Kofod Poulsen, and it might be that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen thought that his assessment was that there was a basis for bringing a case, and then he would do so, and then these legal effects would come into force. Would the Minister of Justice think that it was a satisfactory legal situation for a Minister of Justice of a different kind from the current Minister of Justice to make the choice, on the basis of political considerations, to instruct the prosecution to bring an action against an association, after which the various consequences would come into force? Would the Minister of Justice consider this to be a reasonable situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154327	That is precisely why I want to drill it out, because the answer is a little more complicated than the question. It is so that in the real world it would never happen, and there is not just carte blanche for a minister it would be strange if you could just do what suited you. Of course, it has to be on objective grounds. But exactly what the framework and the guidelines are, I think we are best placed to clarify by means of a written reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154355	With that, we can thank the Minister for Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154409	The debate is open. Sir. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154435	Thank you for that, President. Once again, here in the Danish Parliament, we have to deal with a legislative proposal to postpone the revision of the Danish logging rules. This time it's about postponing the audit once more by 1 year until the parliamentary year 2018-19. The reason for this is that the Commission has not finally determined the further consequences of the so-called Tele2 case. We support the proposal, of course, but would like to take this opportunity to stress once again that social democracy is of the opinion that exactly the logging rules are rules that are essential to the police's ability to investigate serious crime. It's just that it's the telecommunications companies that have to keep these logged data. In each case, it requires a court order to have access to them. And I have to say that in all the days I have been dealing with this area, I have had incredibly difficult to understand why it should be a very serious abuse that, on the basis of a court order in each case, the police can have access to that information. With the reasons used by the Ministry of Justice here, we support the fact that this is once again postponed, so that the next time we come to decide on a revision of the Order here is in the parliamentary year 2018-19.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154619	Thank you, sir. Morten Bødskov. Next in line, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154627	Thank you. After all, this is becoming an old travert, which we have discussed sometimes in the Assembly Hall as it has pulled out. I can only say that the logging that is being carried out is a very, very important and essential tool for the police when it comes to solving very serious crime. It is therefore quite clear, of course, that this instrument will not be taken out of the hands of the police, which is why we also support this proposal. I think it is essential that some solution is found in the longer term. Anyway, now we are postponing the situation until sometime in 2019. Then it is our hope that at some point the government will find clarification. I do not understand why an issue like this could become an issue that some people feel very offended about. To put it bluntly, I would feel more offended if we were to find ourselves in a situation where people who commit very serious crimes are not held responsible for what they have done. So I have full confidence that you can handle this easily and that the Danish police have this tool. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154743	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154750	Thank you. One should not have spent long in Danish courtrooms in connection with serious crimes until one finds out that the heaviest evidence in the most serious crimes is rape, child abduction, drugs, murder. So there must have been a party both at the Mafia and at the bikers' clubs, if those concerned were aware of the consequences of the EU judgment that fell at the European Court of Justice in the so-called Tele2 case, in which it was found that the kind of logging practiced and which led to the conviction of the most serious crimes was illegal. That is what was said at the Court of Justice. However, we must abide by the European Union and the Court of Justice, and that is why practice must be changed. But these are such important rules for police investigation that we are talking about here so that it can hardly be described. That is why I have to say: whether or not there is to be some time in which to change it, but it will, after all, be a limitation of the disaster which I believe has resulted from the judgment. After all, the fact that the judges in question also introduce a member of the cat on the grounds that they allow the logging of telecommunications data relating to certain categories of persons for certain periods of time and in certain areas does not make it any better. Well, Lord Jemini, if there was a murder on Tuesday in Valby, then according to this verdict after Wednesday, you can ask the telecommunications companies to log information from Wednesday forward in Valby. Well, what the hell is that supposed to do with it? I guess the criminal won't come back. But it is the cat door of the European Court of Justice, which is completely useless. So I hope that the Minister for Justice, together with the other EU countries, will find useful tools so that this important means of investigation can be maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419154958	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155001	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur is also a lawyer and a classic Liberal Liberal Liberal. Is there not a balance to be maintained in relation to the fact that, on the one hand, the police should have some tools and, on the other hand, that we do not think that the general population should be monitored? That is actually the basis of the Tele2 judgment, which means that we must not log on to specific purposes, yes, we must do so, but we must not introduce this broad, unspecified, undifferentiated logging of all citizens. I heard what the rapporteur said at the end of the speech, but I suppose that balance is also important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155048	Yes, indeed, and the questioner is quite right in saying that this also gives rise to discussion, including in the Left, as it certainly does in many other parties. And yes, there is a need for balance. I just have to say that the balance has long since been tipped to where the criminals have been overly easy to play if the EU judgment means that information can no longer be logged in the form that has taken place so far. So yes, there is a balance, but I am on the side where I say that the most important thing is that we get the serious criminals caught through these rules, and they are. This is an incredibly important investigative tool for the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155127	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155129	Whatever you think of the Tele2 judgment, it is relatively clear, and that is something that the Member States must address, including Denmark. Now 15 months have passed since the verdict, and when we had the Minister of Justice in consultation a year ago, he referred to a verdict on holiday money and said that it had also been a year before the correction was made, as it were. We have not been given a time when we will be told by the Minister that we will have to correct the matter at the latest. How many years does the rapporteur think it is reasonable for us to be able to act contrary to the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155213	No rules can be found for this anywhere. However, we should not be wrapping things up here. The fact is that we have to adjust to it, and it is true that a vacation grant has been referred to earlier, which probably gave a year's grace. I guess that year's gone well. Well, how long do we have to wait? I'm just about to say that whoever's waiting for something good can wait. And I hope that I am waiting for something good, because what has been proposed here is so bad that I do not just have a time limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155246	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen for a brief remark
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155249	Thank you. I think the end of the rapporteur's speech was particularly good, because there was one in the European Court of Justice on good day. I'm just curious to hear sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, who is also a lawyer, gives his views on how the Court has acted in this particular case. After all, we think it is a major problem that we have an EU Court of Justice which gradually extends its own jurisdiction and is actually trying to put an end to a practice that is an effective tool for the police in very many Member States. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155323	It is, of course, a rather broad issue to deal with here, but I think that the European Court of Justice has done what it thinks it should do in accordance with the interpretation of EU rules. The fact that that interpretation has come out in a way that I absolutely do not find exciting is another matter. However, I cannot agree to a general criticism or review of the activities of the European Court of Justice if it has one.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155353	With that, we thank Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Then we reached Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155402	Thank you. On 9 May 2017, when Parliament first dealt with draft law L 191, which had a content similar to the proposal we are now considering, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative put a very brief and very simple question to the Minister of Justice. It was said and I quote: 'Will the Minister then guarantee that the change that will then be put into perspective will come to the next assembly, i.e.. In 2017-18? The Minister's reply was even shorter. It was like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, It is rare for ministers to give such firm guarantees for anything. Perhaps it was also a little stupid for the current minister to give that guarantee in this case. In any case, we can guarantee that the Minister for Justice, with the submission of this bill, has broken his guarantee, and perhaps it is a bit of a symptom of what guarantees from this government are worth. At least I'm tempted to call it a government of vows. The current draft law is justified by the fact that the European Commission has not finished chewing on the consequences of the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the so-called Tele2 case, which fell in December 2016. However, already prior to the Tele2 judgment, there had been a large number of delays in the revision of the logging rules in 2006, in 2010, in 2012, 2013 and 2016, just as the observations in the bill show. I think this is turning into a farce if it wasn't so serious. Because this is about the government wanting to maintain illegal mass surveillance, which, as the Institute for Human Rights writes in its hearing response, is clearly contrary to the fundamental rights of the European Union. The discharge, as the Foundation writes, is at the expense of citizens' rights to privacy and data protection. I very much agree with the Institute for Human Rights on this. After all, we must now be among the last in the Enhedslisten to pay tribute to the European Union. However, the ruling of the European Court of Justice in the Tele2 case is obviously correct. Of course, the citizens of Denmark must be protected from mass surveillance. The consequences of the Tele2 judgment are that clear and precise rules on logging should be laid down and that logging should be targeted at a defined group of persons related to serious crime. Of course, Parliament's legislation must be well-founded and well-considered, but if the government believes that lawyers need a further period of reflection, then in the meantime the logging notice we have today could be repealed and thus stopped illegal mass surveillance in Denmark. Our poor experience with last year's warranty of the Minister of Justice could also make it possible to agree that the loging order should be lifted after a deadline, for example. 1 July 2019, as the IT-Politics Association writes in its hearing response. On the one hand, it will give the lawyers time to think; on the other hand, it will hopefully prevent us from standing here again in a year's time and discussing a new legislative proposal to postpone the revision clause. I won't ask the Minister for Justice if he can guarantee that the change will come to the next assembly. For the answer to that question, I think experience shows that we can't use so much. As you have probably calculated, we in the Enhedslisten cannot support a further postponement of the revision clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155736	Thank you. This gave rise to a brief remark by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155741	Thank you. Just one very open question to the rapporteur: if you now do what the Enhedslisten proposes, I assume that you turn off logging almost immediately so that it does not exist. What, then, will the Enhedslisten's answer be to those women who cannot be held liable for rape or to those cases of gross violence where they will not be able to find it or the people who have done so? What will the answer be to those victims?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155810	Well, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen is absolutely right that if it were up to us in the Enhedslisten, all logging would stop. Our answer would be that crime must, of course, be solved and that in those countries where you do not log, crime is also solved, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen. In Austria, where the logging rules are completely different, crime is solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155832	In doing so, we thank Mrs Rosa Lund. The next in line is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419155844	Thank you very much. This bill is about postponing the revision of the Danish logging rules to the next parliamentary year. The reason for this is the so-called Tele2 judgment of the European Court of Justice, which stated that it is contrary to EU law to have legislation requiring telecommunications operators to log their customers' traffic and location data. The European Court of Justice also stated that rules on logging must be justified on objective grounds and limited to what is strictly necessary. In the Liberal Alliance, we have taken note of the Tele2 judgment... not quite without satisfaction... and that the Danish logging rules cannot therefore be continued after this judgment. On the basis of the Tele2 judgment, the European Commission is currently preparing guidelines on how Member States can lay down national logging rules. That is why, in line with the legislative proposal, we in the Liberal Alliance believe that it makes good sense to postpone the revision of the Danish logging rules until the Commission's work is available. This does not mean that we in the Liberal Alliance do not have any views on what balances the logging rules should have. It's about weighing two opposing considerations right, and it's really hard. I do not want to hide the fact that we are highly sceptical about the broad collection of data, that is, the mass collection. At the same time, of course, we are not blind to the fact that logging data is a very effective tool for the police for investigation purposes. So in the balance between total rejection of systematic monitoring of all citizens on the one hand and taking into account the police's ability to act in cases of terrorism and serious organised crime on the other, we believe that the new logging rules should be found. In this context, it makes sense that the new logging rules are drawn up on an enlightened basis in cooperation with the European Commission, and that is why we support the legislative proposal, which is to wait for the work of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419160057	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. Then we have reached Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419160106	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have said, we are here to discuss the bill to continue the illegal logging rules that Denmark has. There should be no doubt that we are opposed to this bill because we think that this mass logging is wrong and we find it hard to understand that we should not apply a European judgment. We find it very problematic that we actually have illegal legislation as it is today. We find it strange that you have not already made contact with the industry to find out how to deal with it, as we know, among other things. has done in Sweden. Honestly, this is the seventh time that we have postponed the revision of the law in ten years, the seventh time. I think that's very questionable. So we would like the Court of Justice to be brought into line, and we do not think that the European Commission's work in this area is sufficient to allow itself to be allowed to stand still. We think that we should make some adjustments now and here, and then we may be able to correct once again when we get a final piece of work from the European Commission. But it is simply not acceptable for us to act illegally in Denmark. We don't think so, and that's why we're against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419160242	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. Then it is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left, who is rapidly on her way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419160253	Thank you. Nor can we support the proposal. And something that puzzles me is that the government itself has not put on the work clothes and has given a bid on how to target the logging. For the judgment does not mean that logging in itself is prohibited, but that means that the very broad logging that we have today is not in line with EU law. It does not really look like the government, and certainly not a government supported by the Danish People's Party, to sit and wait for the EU to come and tell us how to get this together and how to target the legislation instead of making a bid for it. It was an opportunity to gain influence, that is, to make a model for how to make a proportional logging, which is fair. There were opportunities now too. That's not all or nothing. You could look at the deadlines; how long you keep the information, etc. etc. There are other countries in Europe that have made more targeted and defined models. After all, you could have resorted to them and in this way either made something that you believe can be kept in EU law, or something that could at least serve as a temporary transitional arrangement, until you saw what the European Commission came up with. Instead, however, you just sit on your hands and wait for the European Union to come up with the solution. It looks very bad like this government and the Danish People's Party. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419160434	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419160449	In Section 8 of Act No. 378 of 6 June 2002 states that during the parliamentary year 2005-06, the Minister of Justice is to submit a proposal for revision of the logging notice. As my colleagues have said, this is the seventh postponement for over ten years. So it is not worthy of the rule of law to postpone years after years with various arguments. Right now, the argument in this proposal is that we are awaiting the Commission's recommendations on how to respond to the Tele2 judgment. But for the many previous postponements, the arguments have been others. I simply do not think it is fair that we do not want to revise it and then find an explanation for it for the occasion. This is the seventh time we've been standing here. It's a farce beyond all bounds. We are also told that because the government and the Danish People's Party like the logging rules, you do not want to do anything yourself to comply with the Tele2 judgment, which is very clear. It says that a broad, unspecified, undifferentiated mass surveillance of all citizens of this country is contrary to fundamental liberal civil rights and human rights. Again, it is a characteristic of a democratic state governed by the rule of law that we find the right balance between, on the one hand, providing intelligence services and police with tools and, on the other hand, saying that the right to privacy and fundamental freedoms for citizens is broadly a balance that must be maintained. Unlike Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen means I and SF that the balance is tipped to the wrong side. It is clear that you can minimise crime in a society, the more surveillance you have. But that is not the society we want. Nor do I want to put words into the words of the rapporteur of the Left, because that is not what I hear either, but in a free democratic society of law one must live with the risk that something has not been foreseen. I do not think there are many of us who want to live in a society where you know or have a look in advance where every citizen is at any given time. So we must therefore be honest, including with the citizens, that we cannot guarantee that nothing will ever happen, that crime will never happen. We can give specific tools to the police; after a concrete suspicion; after specific intelligence. It's not like anything has to happen before you can get a warrant. As an intelligence service, as a police investigator, you may have a reasonable suspicion, and it is not my experience that the Danish judges sit and are stingy in giving court orders if the arguments stand. It's not my experience. In these years, when so much data is available where there are so many possibilities for monitoring, I think we need to secure liberal democracy and have a little self-discipline in order not to take advantage of all the opportunities that exist, because opportunities are endless. There are already facial recognition programs. There are cameras on every street corner, which means you don't even have to wear your smartphone to be watched every second almost 24 hours. It takes something extra from us, that is, that we have some self-discipline and that we are also honest with the citizens and say that if you want to live in a free society, we cannot guarantee that nothing will ever happen. It is embarrassing that for the seventh time we have to deal with a proposal to postpone the revision and the SF cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419160945	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419160955	The Government proposes to postpone the revision of the rules on teleloging until the European Commission has produced guidelines on how Member States can lay down rules on data logging. This is after the judgment in the Tele2 case, which has created confusion as to how the rules should be drawn up. According to the Commission, the rules will be ready during 2018. Therefore, it does not make sense to change the rules until we have clarity from the European Union on how best to organise them. We should preferably act on a really enlightened basis, which is why we can well postpone the revision of the rules until the parliamentary year 2018/19. We in the Conservative People's Party support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161043	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it became the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161048	Thank you for that and thank you for the majority support for the bill. After all, it is planned to postpone the revision of the current logging rules to the next session. Last year, the revision of the logging rules was also postponed, and this was due, as most people know, to the fact that in December 2016 a judgment was handed down at the European Court of Justice in the so-called Tele2 case, which raised some important issues in relation to the logging rules in both Denmark and the other EU countries. Of course, we must adapt our logging rules in accordance with the Tele2 judgment, but we must act on an enlightened basis and be sure that this is the right solution for us. Denmark, as the rapporteurs are aware, has participated in a working group in the European Union over the last year, together with the other Member States and the European Commission. The work will result in the Commission being able to issue guidelines to the Member States on how to link logging rules in the light of the Tele2 judgment. According to the latest statement by the European Commission, the Guidelines come in 2018. In the view of the government, the joint process in the EU is important to ensure that a solution is found that is in line with EU law. At the same time, a common approach in the European Union will help to ensure that the telecommunications industry is not burdened unnecessarily. In this context, of course, it is also important to ensure that the logging rules can operate technically with the telecommunications companies. But most important to me is that logging for a decade has been a central investigative tool for police and PET in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. I believe that a complete lifting of the logging rules or a temporary logging system until we have obtained the guidelines from the European Commission will have far-reaching consequences for the investigation of serious crime. I would also like to point out that, under EU law, we are obliged to comply with the Tele2 judgment as soon as possible, but that there is no specific time limit within which we must act. To sum up: the government believes that we should wait for the work of the European Union to be completed and for the European Commission to issue the promised guidelines. This means that we can first put forward a legislative proposal on the revision of the logging rules in the next parliamentary assembly. And with those comments, I would like to thank you for the speeches and look forward to the further discussion here in the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161310	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Just a moment, just a brief comment now. The Minister of Justice then I come back). It is a very flexible Minister of Justice, and Mrs Zenia Stampe has something to say about it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161326	It was the Minister for Justice's remark that it is such an important tool, and I believe that it is, but as far as I know, we have not really received an answer as to what the scope really is of that tool. Could the Minister for Justice be asked to explain to what extent and how it is actually being used by the police and PET? Can we get some figures or an explanation of how this tool and to what extent it is actually being used and how many cases you estimate it has been crucial for?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161406	I would very much like to stress that this is a central investigative tool, and I was also given the opportunity to say a little about it in a recent consultation here in the Danish Parliament. I have actually met people who think that this is probably just something to be used for a single terrorist incident or something. It is being used to such an extent in the daily investigation. To put it a little in perspective, I can inform you that during 2015 the police are the figures I have received more than 3,000 times requested access to logged information. When you look at the cases in which it is used, you can see that the police made 600 requests for access to logged information in connection with the investigation of serious crime and 300 requests in cases of murder and attempted murder. So it's being used that much, and it's so valuable to the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161454	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161500	That's because I'm gonna get a little irritated like that... I guess the right word is about putting it up as if it's absolutely crucial to the police. What I would like to ask the Minister for Justice is that there is a balance, isn't there? Surely there is a balance, in relation to how much we need to monitor our citizens, how much we need to mass monitor our citizens in order to solve crime? Because if you follow the extremes of thinking, we could all walk around with a camera on us logged by the police, because in the second there was a crime, you would be able to google and see where he is. And then we go with our own personal camera, and then we'll be able to be found very quickly if we've committed something illegal. And there's a limit, isn't there? There's a balance, isn't there? I fully agree that we are in complete disagreement as to where that line is going. So I really do not have a question, that was more of a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161558	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161601	I would like to comment on that anyway, because of course there is a balance and, of course, there is a limit. That goes without saying. But I don't think that's where we are now. I have also made it clear that there has been a judgment. The Tele2 verdict means we have to change our logging rules. And then I just think that when we talk about international cooperation and so on, we often agree that it makes real sense that we have a common basis to stand on, and I think that makes sense. Then I fully understand that there will be a day when we have the basis of the European Commission, when we will have some debates in this Chamber and in the Folketing on how the logging rules should be. It may well be that we look at things a little differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161637	Thank you. There are several brief comments. Now it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161645	Thank you. I don't have much time, so I'm talking very fast now. In 2006, the audit was postponed because there was no experience of the application of Article 786 of the Code of Procedure. In 2010, it was postponed so that the outcome of an evaluation of the logging directive could be considered. In 2012, it was postponed. In 2013, it was postponed. In 2014-15 it was postponed, also for some reason. In 2016, it was postponed. And now it is being postponed because we are awaiting the Commission. Can the Minister not draw on the smile tape when he reads through the history of 2006 with the many, many different arguments that have been? Some have been quite real, but there is no doubt that if you continue to postpone a review for more than ten years, then at some point some people are thinking that something is wrong here. Will the Minister stand and guarantee from the Parliamentary Chair that we will not have a proposal to postpone the revision again in a year or in two years' time, but that it will be in place now?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161805	I thank you for the historical review that I do not quite know what I need to do. Well, what is important to me, I would like to say this quite clearly, is that there has been a judgment, the Tele2 judgment. The Tele2 judgment makes it indisputable that we need to change our rules. We'll get to that. And then there are some of us who think that it makes a great deal of sense to change those rules when we have a common basis to stand on with the Commission. I said yes last year when I was asked if we would have it before the end of this Parliament year, and we haven't. And I have also indicated in my speech that we have it in 2018. That's what we're looking for. But I do not dare to give any guarantees any longer until I have something from the Commission. But, of course, I am quite convinced that we must soon be in the target position since the Commission makes that announcement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161847	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161851	But it was in 2006 that it was first postponed. In 2016, it was postponed because there was an external consultancy firm that had made some calculations that had to be waited for. So, I know the Minister says that this time it is because we are now awaiting the Commission's response to the Tele2 judgment, but all the other times there have been all sorts of other reasons that have been written in. I do not think the Minister answered the question. Will this be the last time the government proposes a postponement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161929	There are two things. I think there is a significant difference between the ambition to revise the rules and change them in the past and the fact that a judgment has now been passed which must then be corrected. That's what matters to me. I don't have such strong feelings about why you've had to do one or the other or the other in the past. Then I would like to say that I cannot guarantee that there will be until I know what comes from the Commission. It would just be strange other, because when we get a message from the Commission that you expect to be in line with an initiative in 2018, I would think that you are. That's the best answer I can give.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419161959	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162007	In fact, I believe that the Minister and I agree quite clearly on teleloging. What I would like to hear from the Minister is that it is always mentioned that this is an essential investigative tool for the police and that it is absolutely central. I would just like to look at the bottom line and ask the Minister: if this tool were abolished for the police, would we end up in a situation where fewer people who have committed very serious crimes are convicted? In other words, will you be able to read it almost 1:1 by the fact that there will be fewer convicted people and that the prosecution will raise fewer cases? I would like the Minister's suggestion for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162040	It can be very dangerous here to move into an answer, but I can at least point out that when, in so many cases as I mentioned before, there were 600 cases of serious crime in 2015, it is clear that one can have a sense of how it would have been if we had not had access to that information. One can only be concerned that there could then have been a risk that it would not have led to a clarification of the cases and a conviction. I think that is very serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162112	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162115	I just think it is crucial that it is said that it is essential, because I fully agree with that. This isn't a tool I want to take from the police. But when you say that this must be important, it must also mean that we can see in the statistics more convicted of this serious crime. That is, in fact, just what I want the Minister of Justice to confirm, namely that there is then a link between the tools we give to the Danish police and the result that comes out on the other end.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162141	We must certainly hope so, because otherwise it would be bad. That's what I'd like to do. I think that is also the logical answer. But now we haven't tried the other. Let us now say that we removed the logging tomorrow, as some people in this Chamber would like, so we would be able to see the consequence. I just don't want to throw myself into that experiment when I can see how much the police are using it. So I agree. It's just a matter for me to stand here and document it, because it's gonna be hard to document on the bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162213	There's more, and that's sir. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162223	Now there has just been a very big discussion about Facebook in connection with their processing of data. As far as the large Internet companies, including providers such as Facebook, Google and others are concerned, one can safely say, if you look at how they process our personal data, that there is far from court control and permission from a court if they are to move a logging for me on Facebook to an advertiser, in relation to what we see here. I think that might put it a little in perspective when we hear that criticism. So I just want to ask the Minister of Justice to confirm whether it is not also his feeling that there is a very, very big difference here. This is about asking for it on a case-by-case basis; it's a warrant you have to have every time. And compared to what else we share on Facebook, Google and everything else, and that without anything they can use my data and your data and sell them to advertisers and others, there is a world of difference, and then there is the worry; perhaps you should also try to see it in that perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162319	Yes, I fully share that view. One may sometimes wonder if it has something to do with the public and how to process data. For example: As far as access to the police is concerned, we are concerned, and this is all a major attack. But when you look at what some services have at their disposal of data on citizens, you may wonder a little about the debate that is going on. So I think I'm very much in line with what Mr. Morten Bødskov says so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162347	Then we have reached the point where we can thank the Minister for Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162411	The debate is open. It's sir. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162430	Thank you for that, President. The Social Democratic vision for Denmark is based on strong communities, supported by great solidarity, a Denmark where rights and duties go hand in hand and where we must all have equal opportunities to shape our own and Denmark's future. There is no doubt that this bill has offered a great deal of debate. But it is also important to bear in mind that there is a problem which cannot and must not be neglected. Certain garments, including niqab and burka, are used to suppress women. And whether it's 10, 30 or 100 women we're talking about, we owe them a helping hand. That is why the Social Democrats believe that the draft law, with the changes it has now undergone, strikes the right balance. Clothing that hides the face is now banned in public spaces, and at the same time we are handing out a helping hand to those women who daily experience oppression on their own bodies. For the Social Democratic Party, it is quite simple. It is about helping those women who want to take part in the rights and duties on which our society is based, but who must not, and who are forced to opt out of the communities that make our communities strong. It is their freedom that we support here. And burkas and niqabber are not just garments; they are a means of structural oppression of women. Together with the women's movement, this is exactly what the Social Democratic Party has been fighting against for decades, and we are continuing to fight with this proposal for the liberation of women. Our support for this proposal is not about combating a particular religion, but it is clear that, as increased immigration from countries with a different religion and culture and view of women, it is also our duty to ask the question: How do we ensure a Denmark where everyone has the opportunity to enjoy the rights and duties on which our welfare society is based? The position of the Social Democratic Party is clear. We do not want a society in which parallel societies flourish, where we live apart, where women are isolated and hidden away, and where women are held back and therefore not allowed to benefit from that freedom, among other things. education, work and self-sufficiency, for which we have been fighting for decades. We want the Community, we want a Denmark where freedom is the goal, equality is the means and solidarity is the prerequisite for a Denmark carried by strong cohesion. The question then is whether this is the world's biggest problem we are legislating on today. It's not. Is burka and niqab the biggest challenge for integration? It's not. And are we now solving the challenge of women's oppression and social control? Unfortunately, no, we don't. But there's a but. For behind all these statistics are women who are being oppressed on a daily basis and whom we owe a helping hand. That is why this step we are taking today is important. It is one of many steps, but it is the road to better integration in Denmark, and it is the way for even more people to be allowed to benefit from the benefits and opportunities that our welfare societies offer. There is a problem and a clothing ban is not the whole answer. It is therefore also important that we strengthen, as it were, the fight against the causes of women's oppression, which are the expression of the garments here, namely the fight against social control and the oppression of women. Social democracy has helped to ensure this. We have strengthened our efforts to combat precisely that. We have ensured that when there is a suspicion of social control and repression, there is now help to be obtained so that aid from the authorities is put in place. We believe that the bill has now found the right balance. We believe that, on the one hand, we are making a clear stand against social control and oppression of women, and, on the other, we are at the same time handing out a helping hand to those women who live in the day-to-day oppression and who are being held back from enjoying the freedoms that are so natural and rewarding to all of us. They are now getting increased help with offers of advice, protection and crisis relief. We owe them that help. It is their freedom that we must fight for, and social democracy does. That's why the Social Democratic Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162836	Thank you. There are brief comments. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162840	Thank you. I would, of course, like to sign that the Social Democratic Party supports this bill. I think that's really good. I would like to ask: if this happens then it can happen, it happens at regular intervals that the government changes at some point here in the Danish Parliament and that the Social Democrats get the power of government and will depend on the Radicals, the SF etc., and then they demand that you roll it back now, what will the Social Democrats' answer be to those parties? I am well aware that guarantees in politics are somewhat difficult something that could be guaranteed, or could one say clearly that one will stand firm, that then it will have to remain there and that it is not suddenly something that is being rolled back in the context of some debate on a political agreement, a financial agreement, an intergovernmental agreement, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162928	I actually thought that sir... Martin Henriksen wanted to ask questions about the content of this proposal and not about every other process around. However, the proposal is important and that is why the Social Democrats support it, and I hope that has also been very, very clear. We believe that this has a clear line on what kind of society we want, what kind of values we want to stand on and also defend. That is why we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162952	Sir. Martin Henriksen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419162957	Thank you. But I would just like to see if I could get a clear answer from Mr. Morten Bødskov, if it is that government changes at some point, and when I ask in this way, it is not the wish that it should do so, but that is how it is sometimes here in Denmark and in all other democracies, it will be the case that if the Radical, Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten come to the Social Democratic Party in connection with a financial agreement or an agreement on the basis of government and say that in order for us to support you, you can get the ministerial posts, and you can of course get some policy through in other areas, it is a condition, a requirement on our part, that you roll it back here. What will the Social Democrats' answer be in that situation? Are you going to say that you can forget about it, or are you going to start negotiating about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163041	What I sense, and which others have also noted, is very clear and very clear, is that the policy of foreigners, which the Social Democratic Party is helping to adopt here, stands firm. There is no reason to doubt this, because we also believe that this proposal is crucial and important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163056	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163100	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think it is quite impressive that the rapporteur is taking the women's movement and equality into account for this proposal. Then I think it was forced maternity leave for fathers, who I think were in the government of the Social Democratic Party the last time you should have gone on. I am surprised that the Social Democratic Party is in favour of this proposal, I have to say. The rapporteur is also standing up there saying that this is a very, very small group of women. How is it that the rapporteur believes that this helps when we punish those who carry it, rather than making efforts, so that those women who are forced to wear burka or niqab are helped in this way? Well, this doesn't help the individual woman. And besides, we know that there's a large group of these women who are a very small number that actually goes with this on a voluntary basis. They wear it because they want to wear it themselves. Why is it that, as a society, we have to punish it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163201	Firstly, I would like to say that the Social Democratic Party does not take the women's movement as a source of our support for this proposal. I referred to the women's movement and the social democracy's cooperation with the women's movement as an example of the struggle which the Social Democratic Party has fought for decades for the liberation of women, precisely this struggle. We're not earning them for anything. I mentioned our own fight with them, shoulder to shoulder, for these values. What is this helping? I am well aware that it does not solve all the problems in the world, and I do not think anyone thinks so either, but there is a problem, and I just find it so difficult to understand that when you listen to the question here, you will not admit that there is a problem and that you cannot see that with this proposal we can give some women a tool to be allowed to enjoy the basic values, the opportunities that we others take for granted. But because there are some who live in oppression because it is used to suppress in some cases there are probably some who go with it voluntarily, fine enough • women from benefiting from the opportunities that I assume we fully agree that we as a society should build on. That is what this is about for social democracy, and that is what I had hoped that the alternative could be seen in this debate in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163329	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163332	But what I do not see in this debate is that we are hitting those whom we would like to save so that the rapporteur's thoughts can now be passed on. I mean, you punish women. If we now assume that there is a group of these women who are forced to wear burka or niqab by force, they will not be allowed to leave the home. That's what I'm worried about. I know that there is a group that is willing to do so. They have to make up for themselves whether they want to wear it or not. I think it is problematic that the state should go in to impose clothes on people and deprive them of the opportunity to wear certain garments, but how does the rapporteur know that the group that the rapporteur refers to, which is forced to do so, is not just being kept at home in the future? So how do we help these women?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163425	It is true that some are forced to do so. How many that is is uncertain, but I think it has to be said that this is precisely what the Social Democratic Party has been fighting for when we discussed this bill with the government, namely to get this balance, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that we are now doing this clothing ban. There are worthy purposes for which it can still be used, and I think that this is very well defined in the comments made by the Ministry of Justice on the draft law. I think that the Minister for Justice's statements today or yesterday in the Politiken on how the police should deal with these matters are very sensible. However, there are cases where there are problems and therefore the ban is relevant. Then there is also the part that, if it is found that there are signs of social control or repression in these cases, then, as you can see, there are now deserters given to the police about how it should be handled and what consequences it should have. I think that this is a fine balance in dealing with a problem that is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163527	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163530	Thank you. I just noticed that in his speech the rapporteur spoke a lot about women's oppression and that we must have a fight with that, and I fully share that intention. So we share that in the Enhedslisten. However, following on from Mrs Josephine Fock's question, I do not have a clear answer as to whether the rapporteur does not fear, when it is forbidden to go with niqab or burka, that these women, as the rapporteur is talking about, simply stay at home, in other words within the four walls of the home and thus become even more isolated, which I understand from the rapporteur is not the intention of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163611	There is no doubt that in certain parts of the immigrant environment there are violent patriarchal structures, and this also helps to support the social democracy's point that it is those we must have made up with who are helping to keep women in life patterns, in family patterns, which Enhedslisten, whom I have at least been able to listen to at Enhedslisten, has spent many years fighting to get away. That is why I find it so difficult to understand, when we listen to the criticism that comes here, that we are ready to let this be a symbol which will then be imposed on women who do not want it, a symbol which, if we are to be very direct, is an expression of a variety and a branch of Islam, which belongs to some of the most violent things. That is what I think we should be aware of here, and that is why the Social Democrats think this proposal is quite sensible. It is balanced and, as I have said, we have also made a whole series of initiatives to improve the ability of the police to deal with it here when it comes to combating social control and women's oppression.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163723	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163726	Now let me try to ask in a slightly different way. When this comes into force, it may turn out that these women will be even more isolated because they will never leave their homes, and it may turn out that they will be even more oppressed. For, as we could understand at least in the Minister of Justice, if they do not comply with the law, they must go to the police station, where they must then be picked up by their oppressive patriarchal men and walk home again. Well, it's not liberation, as I understand from the rapporteur is the intention of this bill. So I think I'm just gonna ask mr. Morten Bødskov: If this bill turns out to isolate women even more because they stay at home, will social democracy change its attitude in the name of women's liberation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163818	After all, in this draft law, we have carefully been given the tools to strengthen the fight against social control, and we think that this is a quite reasonable balance, and that is why we support the proposal. What I find so difficult to understand is that you have these discussions, among others. with Enhedslisten. One can easily criticise this, and there are uncertainties about it, and can I say how many there are? No, I can't, but I can tell you that there are some who have a problem here. But what is Enhedslisten's answer to that? What is Enhedslisten's answer to those women who live with social control and oppression in those cases, other than that I have to conclude that this must then be avoided because we want to achieve social control by detours, by other means? And that seems to social democracy to be the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163905	So we're not getting an answer to that from the Enhedslisten right now. The next question is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419163910	When we are after the Social Democrats, it is because this is clearly symbolic policy which the Social Democrats are trying to dress as a fight against oppression, and then I would like to know why the word repression is not really included in the draft law. But there is another specific question. After all, it is a relatively limited group that wears niqab or burka, i.e. about 200 people. If we then imagine that we are putting aside the necessary resources, it is not really very many people who are going to go to the 200 homes where there is a woman who wears burka or niqab, and then you assess whether it is voluntary or coercive, then I would like to ask Mr. Morten Bødskov, who argues with oppression: What does Mr. Morten Bødskov then that this ban should also apply to them, where the assessment is that this is not oppression, but is voluntary?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419164003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419164006	This is because we have a vision of how we meet each other in Danish society. That's what the bill says. That is why it is not so difficult, I would say to Mrs Zenia Stampe. It's not that difficult, because we want a society where the meeting between us is what helps create the kit that will help strengthen the cohesion of Danish society. It is also a consideration that appears if you read the bill, and it is very good that the Radicals are against it, but the Social Democrats are not. Because if there is something we are opposed to, then the parallel society that is allowed to flourish is that environments flourish where values that we have spent decades fighting, because we wanted everyone to have a share in the rights and duties on which our society is founded, flourish. For social democracy, it is not very difficult to bring that argument to the end, and that is what I have done here today, and that is why we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419164104	Is there a follow-up question? There's no pressure. Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419164110	Having followed the Social Democrats in this debate, however, it has been seen that the argument of repression has been the most important and the most energy spent. But now I think we are getting it very honestly from the platform, so that in reality it is about something else. It's about not being allowed to look like that. But then I would like to ask: what about those who have been subjected to coercion? Sir. Morten Bødskov himself said it was 10, 20, 30. Let's just say it's 30 women. Mr. Morten Bødskov saw that the way to help them is to punish them instead of prosecuting their men and those who have forced them to wear burka? Mr. Morten Bødskov really that punishment for the oppressed is helping?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419164154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419164157	Well, that's an opportunity already today. It is true that I have understood that the Radicals are leaning against the fact that today we can already punish and that is also right and necessary for coercion. It is true that if you force someone to do something against their will, you can be punished for coercion. That's right. But here there is oppression, and I do not understand why it is so problematic for Mrs Zenia Stampe to accept that this is the Social Democrat argument for it. That is why the reality is that there is a proposal here that helps solve a problem and that gives a helping hand to some of those who live in and under social control and who live in that environment every day and who do not have a share in and opportunities to benefit from the benefits on which our welfare society is based and which we take as natural. That is what this proposal is about, and that is why the Social Democrats support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419164250	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next one on the platform is sir. Martin Henriksen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419164256	Thank you. I don't have to hide the fact that it's a good day to be DFs. Of course, it's always good to be DFs you should try it, you'll like it, I'm sure it is, but today it's extra good to be DFs, and that's because if you go through it all, you can see that it was so that back in 2009 the Danish People's Party made the first proposal to ban burka and niqab in public space. All other parties were opposed, and they were also the next few times when we tabled the proposal. The Danish People's Party's proposal has over the years changed its character from a purely burka ban to a ban on masking and covering suits, and when we tabled the proposal the fourth time, the government and the Social Democratic Party announced, or at least most of the government and most of the Social Democratic Party, that they now supported a ban on wearing masking and covering suits in public spaces, and thank you for that. It has taken almost 10 years to convince a majority in the Folketing that we should ban, among other things. Burka and niqab in the public room, but now it should be there. That is why we are today debating a bill on a ban on cover, as it is now known, dear child has many names, and I can tell you that the Danish People's Party and all members of the Danish People's Party are very much looking forward to voting in favour of the bill, and of course we would like to thank the Minister and his officials for making a very good proposal which I think meets the political understanding that has existed between us. It is incredibly valuable for us as legislators to go in and say clearly against the view of women and people behind the burka and the niqab. When the bill is passed, the official Denmark will place a marked distance from political Islam. We say no to Islamism and we make it clear to everyone that this type of extremism and brainwashing is unacceptable in Denmark. It is not Danish and it will never be Danish. What the burka symbolises is simply incompatible with Danish culture, Danish openness and Danish tolerance towards its fellow human beings, and when the Folketing says 'no', we say 'no' to some of the most extreme and intolerant things that exist, namely political Islam. It can of course be argued that it is less tolerant to ban certain garments, but I would now say that it is necessary from time to time to show intolerance to the intolerant, and that is what we are doing today. In the long run I am convinced that it benefits the conversation and understanding between each other in society, between us, that we can see each other when we talk to each other, and that in the long term it will strengthen Danish society. It is essential for people's interaction and cohabitation in Denmark that they do not hide their face or identity from their fellow citizens, and we consider it essential for social cohesion that masking and full-scale facial clothing, such as: burka and niqab are banned in Denmark. We must not believe that Islamisation and radicalisation have slowed down; rather, it has increased. During these years, many people come to Denmark from different countries, and it is important that they are met by a society that clearly demonstrates our strong democratic and Danish values, and therefore clearly signals that life in Denmark is lived in respect of equality between men and women, so there are certain things that just cannot be accepted. At the same time, a ban will strengthen the safety of all of us. Both terrorists and other criminals can benefit from comprehensive clothing to hide their identity when they engage in terrorism or other forms of crime. So there are many reasons for imposing a ban. As I have said, we have tabled the proposal a few times before four times in total and now, fortunately, it seems to be successful. So it's a really good day for us who spend a lot of our time fighting the Islamisation of our society. This is the biggest challenge we face. That is why we should welcome the fact that we have succeeded, but we must of course continue at some point too, and Parliament should therefore prohibit religious headgear for pupils, teachers, students and teachers in our educational system. We should ban religious headgear for public servants, we should phase out halal from our schools and institutions, and we should take more account of our own Danish culture and fewer, indeed, no consideration of Muslim culture in our schools and institutions; so we are not finished, far from it. Before I finish, I would like to say for the record that the Danish People's Party would have liked to have seen prison sentences for violation of the ban, so we might have raised this during the committee procedure. But that should not ruin our enthusiasm for the bill, and that should be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419164734	There are no requests for short remarks, so thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419164748	Thank you. This is a controversial proposal that we are going to deal with here today. In general, this is a cover-up ban which excludes covering the face in public areas for no reasonable reason, i.e.: without a purpose worthy of recognition. The ban applies to all forms of masking, including the masking that happens if you are a Ku Klux Klan member, if you are a hashhandler, a football thug or a burka or a niqab, on which the debate concentrates. The prohibition does not include dress wearing because of an object worthy of recognition. What is in it is described in detail in the proposal, and I would recommend that you read it instead of colportating the rumours that have been in the newspapers that Santa Claus should lose his beard and so on. etc. There are two main reasons why the Left supports this proposal. One is that we need to be able to look each other in the eye of public space, and the other is integration. Let me take the first one. You have to be able to look into each other's eyes in public. That is one of the fundamental motives behind the proposal. It is important in our society that we can meet each other face to face in a trusting relationship, a trust that is essentially based on the ability to read facial expressions. We meet each other, we see the mood, we see the grief, we see the joy, we see the humor, we see the basic features of our culture and way of being expressed in the face of the conversation partner. There is therefore nothing unnatural about the fact that we have long had a cover-up ban, for example in section 168 of the Code of Procedure. 2, which says that if you testify in court, you must not wear garments that hide your face. Why do we actually have that rule, one might ask. Why, then, can the judge not settle for an oral explanation behind a piece of cloth? I guess it's the same thing that comes out of your mouth in both situations. Well it is precisely because facial communication is an essential part of the assessment of the truth value of a statement. So this is not a completely unknown phenomenon. The second main motive for the Left is the question of the integration of citizens who want to dress burka and niqab. It has hardly gone completely unnoticed that the government wants a fight with parallel societies, wants the integration of citizens of foreign origin. This is highlighted among other things. in the so-called ghetto games. To put it bluntly, we simply cannot integrate people into Danish society if they go with their faces covered. It's actually that simple. There is no employer in the usual labour market who will hire a person with a covered face. Therefore, the persons concerned remain outside the labour market and therefore remain outside the scope of integration. We simply will not accept that. As with all other provisions of the criminal code, I hope we do not have to use it, but on the other hand, no effect can hardly be expected without sanctions. In this situation, these are fines. If you do not comply with the rule that we are likely to adopt on banning masking, then it will be DKK 1,000. rising to 10,000 kroner. Let me just stress that it is normal tariffs that are indicated here in the comments. I stress it most of all because there have been foreigners on the field with a benevolent checkbook. The fines indicated are therefore normal penalties. If there are consistent, persistent violations, the relationship will of course be judged according to the ordinary part of the criminal code, according to Section 81 of the Penal Code, which states that it is an aggravating circumstance if one has previously been punished for similar crimes. It is precisely for this reason that I welcome the fact that it is described in the comments that these rules on a possible increase in penalties can be applied and that, for example, the level of penalties can be waived upwards if there are aggravating circumstances, for example if we continue consistently and perhaps get the fine covered elsewhere. Of course, as with any other legislation, we expect this law to review periodically the provisions of the law and the scope of the law. The Left can support the bill in any respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165228	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165235	That was actually a brief comment to Mr. Martin Henriksen. I just wasn't fast enough. But now that I'm signed in anyway, I just want to know if it's a united parliamentary group voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165248	It will be revealed during the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165250	Does the questioner have any further questions? She hasn't. Then we move on to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165303	I would like to ask how the rapporteur thinks this bill is related to freedoms and being able to dress as you like.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165311	I would have expected the question to come and, as a liberal, we should at least expect it to come out. Let me say, then, that the state must, as far as possible, stay out of the way in which people dress. There is no doubt that this is the absolute rule. But there are exceptions. The state has to go in and regulate certain conditions in society. For example, if you as a liberal want the least possible state involvement, this does not mean that there is free speed on all roads, etc. etc. Nor does it mean, in my view, that the state should not get involved in a situation in which, for example, a large group is on the way to becoming what we certainly do not like, namely a parallel society which is on its way to being excluded from the labour market. Then, despite our absolute rule of minimum state involvement, the state has to get involved. That is what I appeal to the Danish Parliament to do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165415	Then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is talking about integration or assimilation. Now I've met with some of these young women who cover up, and they're living what I'd call a perfectly normal life. They go to an educational establishment, and some of them also have work. They also participate in association activities. Are the Left's demands on the people who live in Denmark that they should be like us? Or are they allowed to live in a different way as long as they comply with the laws of the country and participate in society, as the rapporteur says? So is the rapporteur talking about assimilation or integration? Is it enough in the rapporteur's optics if people comply with the laws of the country, or do they have to live and dress in a special way, so that we think they are good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165519	That was a lot of questions. I'm sorry if I can't keep track of all of them. But yes, I believe that the laws of the country must of course be observed. This also applies to the amendment of the law which we are likely to adopt here. I and the Left do not think that we can implicitly accept that there are some people who are excluded from integration and excluded from the labour market. I just have to dispute or at least say that I do not share the view, as the author quoted, that they can live a perfectly normal life in Denmark. By a normal life I understand a normal association life and a cultural life, and as a rule I also understand by a normal life that you have the opportunity to go out into the labour market and get a job. You don't have that if you've covered your face.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165602	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165605	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur of the Left that this is about the fact that nobody should be excluded from integration. How will the Left feel if the consequence of this proposal is that the women who today wear niqab or burka, who are not very many of them in Denmark, never leave home or never come outside the four walls of the home and thus become further oppressed? Will the Left reconsider what to do then?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165640	Let me put it this way: it is always a balance, and to some extent the questioner may have been right in view of the environment in which we are. But the question is whether, because a few, I think, may go home, as the rapporteur indicates, we should say: well, we are dropping all legislation in this area. We do like Enhedslisten and don't even speculate about it. You are allowed to walk around and stay outside the labour market and form your own small parallel society; that is no problem at all. It's just like what several parties including Enhedslisten have as a proposal for a ghettoudgame you don't see other proposals, please leave things alone. We will not be involved in this. So, although the risk of what the questioner says is obviously present, I believe that the balance seems to be that we have to do something, and what we are doing is, therefore, that we implement a cover-up ban, in the hope that those concerned will enter into integration and enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165743	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165747	I can assure the rapporteur of the Left that we are wondering a lot about this in the Enhedslisten; we have just not come to the conclusion that the best way to help people is to punish them. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left about something else. How does the Left imagine this ban to be enforced? Can the rapporteur of the Left try to mention a situation in which the police can enforce this proposal and how they can do so? Because, as I understand from the Minister for Justice, it has to be enforced in such a way that if you are covered, you have to go down to the police station and there wait to be picked up by some others. First of all, I think that this is untenable and, secondly, it also seems quite oppressive to me. So I would like the proponents of this proposal to give some examples of how the police are going to enforce this proposal, because it is very conveniently omitted from the comments on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165844	I now believe that it is described in the comments, but it should not separate us. In any case, there will then be a guide to the police on such specific matters as enforcement. But let me say that it is no more complicated than that the police, if they see a person who exceeds the law, make an arrest just like anything else, and that means that in this situation they are either taken home by the police or taken to the station, and then somebody will be called to pick them up. It should be remembered that this is not a ban on cover that applies at home, so if you stay away from public territory, you can dress as you like.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165922	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker is Mrs Rosa Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419165929	Today, when we are discussing a ban on cover, it is not because there are too many men, or women for that matter, who are carrying fake Santa Claus beards outside the season. Nor is it because people cover their faces with scarf or elephant hat in the summer. No. The reason for this bill we are discussing today is that a very small number of women in Denmark wear niqab, a costume that covers everything but the eyes, and that in addition, an infinitely small number of women may wear burka, which is a piece of clothing that also covers their eyes. The researchers who in 2009 made the report on the use of niqab and burka in Denmark for the then government's burka working group estimated that 100-200 women in Denmark went with niqab or burka, of which very few with burka. We have no precise figures, either for the situation in 2009 or today, almost nine years later. If someone forces others to wear burka or niqab, they can be punished under section 260 of the Penal Code. 3; this was legislated for already in 2010 • apparently without it having led to any cases. So what we are talking about today is extending the area of what is punishable. It must not only be punishable by forcing others to wear niqab or burka. That's what this bill is about. The government and the majority of parliament will punish the women who go with niqab or burka, and also, if they do so voluntarily. That is the consequence of the proposal. Some have argued that it is the question whether a ban on niqab and burka is a foreign policy or is about integration. This view is not supported in the 2009 report, where researchers consider that everything is in favour of a significant part of the women who wear niqab being convertites, i.e. Danish women with blue eyes and liver patey-colored hair, whose family has lived in Denmark and spoken Danish for generations. Women of this kind will probably only be forced to wear niqab in very rare cases, at least in Denmark they would have a good opportunity to evade any coercion, because they have grown up here, the language and know the authorities. This does not change the fact that niqab and burka are symbols of oppression and that in large parts of the world there are women who are forced to wear niqab or burka. It is probably in the areas controlled by the terrorist organisation Islamic State, but also in conservative areas in countries such as Afghanistan or Saudi Arabia. In the Enhedslisten we believe that the fewer women who cover the face with niqab or burka, the better. If women are forced to wear a certain type of clothing, they must be helped and supported, not punished. If, on the basis of a deep religious belief, a woman thinks it is wrong to show her face in public space, a ban on cover will not necessarily cause her to throw niqabben. She could choose to stay behind the four walls of the home and go into even greater isolation away from our common society and make herself even more inaccessible in terms of helping to get out of social control, if that is what she is victim of. Several European countries have banned cover in recent years, and in all cases it is to prevent women from carrying niqab or burka in public spaces. The latest country in the line is Austria, and the media have been able to read that Austrian police find the rules very difficult to administer and that most of the cases investigated under the new rules have been about clothing and winter clothes, not about niqab and burka. It is possible that the present Danish draft law is designed in such a way that a cover ban will not have unintended or absurd consequences, as is the case with the rules in Austria. It is possible that the very skilled officials of the Ministry of Justice, with surgical precision, have succeeded in making the bill so that it just hits only niqab and burka. But the experience from among others. Austria shows that it is difficult to legislate on certain types of clothing without having unintended consequences. We have put a number of questions to the Minister in the Enhedslisten, among others. on Austria's experience, and we are very much looking forward to getting answers to them when we are going to deal with this bill. Basically, we in the Enhedslisten do not want to legislate on what clothes people wear. Unfortunately, it puts us precisely in the booths of countries such as Saudi Arabia and Iran that we are beginning to legislate on what clothes people should wear. I do not think it comes as a surprise that we in the Enhedslist cannot support this bill. One final comment on the Minister for Justice must be that the consultation note on page 6 says that the Minister has had a dialogue with the National Police on this bill. I am surprised that this dialogue has not been expressed in any of the consultations, and I strongly assume that the Minister will ensure that, in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, when we deal with this bill, we have a detailed knowledge of the dialogue that has taken place with the National Police.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419170501	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419170506	Thank you. I would like to ask what it takes for the Enhedslisten to be able to accept a cover-up ban on, among other things. to carry burka and niqab in public space. What if, for example, there's... Was 5,000 who carried it in Danish society, or 10,000? Would that be something that Enhedslisten would consider? What if no, not what if, because we know that it is taking place, but should you be allowed as a student or student at an educational institution to wear it in class? Should a teacher, a teacher, be allowed to wear a burka or a niqab? Is that okay with Enhedslisten's eyes? Or is it okay with an educator in a daycare institution from the point of view of Enhedslisten? And if that's okay... you must almost understand... that's what Enhedslisten has considered... what signal it sends to the parents and to the children who may be in that institution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419170601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419170602	I find it very difficult to imagine a situation in which Enhedslisten would think that we should legislate on what clothes to wear. So I also find it very difficult to imagine a situation in which we will even consider a ban. I think, though, sir. Martin Henriksen asks a very relevant question. Because, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we in the Enhedslist believe that the fewer women carrying niqab or burka, the better. If we then find ourselves in a situation where it suddenly spreads and there are many women who choose it, then we have to discuss it; then we have to take it from there. I think we can help these women if they are. I think it's about shelters, I think it's about dialogue, i.e. about taking it in a different way. I don't think punishing is gonna help.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419170655	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419170656	Punishment helps at least occasionally. I hope, then, that Mrs Rosa Lund will learn or learn at some point in her life. In relation to those who are supporters of political Islam, does the Enhedslisten believe that they should be able to act freely in Danish society without political opposition? Is it the view of Enhedslisten that no initiatives should be taken by Christiansborg to come after those who are supporters of political Islam, who are Islamists? Should they operate freely with the certainty that if Enhedslisten had 90 mandates, there would be no political action that would go against any of the things that they put the emphasis on it could be burka and niqab, but that could of course also be in relation to a ban on Hizb ut-Tahir and other things? Should supporters of political Islam act completely freely without political opposition in Danish society? You get that impression when you listen to the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419170747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419170748	Well, sir. Martin Henriksen is quite right in saying that punishment sometimes works that is precisely why we are in favour of much stricter penalties for example. financial crime, but that is a completely different discussion. To return to this debate, I would like to say that we believe in the Enhedslisten that everyone who is opposed to democracy must, of course, be opposed. I am not going to go into this debate and discuss whether we should ban more associations. We had a debate on that earlier today. But, of course, it has to be counter-played. We will always defend democracy in the Enhedslisten, but we will also always defend the individual's right to look exactly as you like.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419170831	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur to Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419170840	Thank you. Oh, my God, we've been discussing this out loud and for a long time. It might seem a little strange, for the time being that the focus of the debate has been perhaps the 200 women dressed in burka and niqab in Denmark. One might then ask the question: why have we been discussing this so loudly and so long when it is so few citizens? The answer is clear. We have this because there are feelings and strong values attached to it, and there are great principles at stake. I think that is how many people feel, regardless of what attitude they then take on the question. There have been some who almost do not understand why we want to take the debate at all, but of course we do. I understand the need for the debate, because what on earth do we do when we meet values that are fundamentally contrary to what generations of Danes have fought for? On the one hand, the issue is about covering up the view of women that burka and niqab symbolise. It is violence against the tradition we have in Denmark that men and women are equal, and it is committing violence against the struggle that the women's movement has waged for generations for the liberation of women. The oppression of women, which burka and niqab symbolize, cannot in any way be excused or neglected. Women's freedom must be unbridled. There are men who force women to dress in a certain way. It is difficult to understand how they think, because it is incredibly distant from our concepts of respect and gender equality. Fortunately, it is already forbidden today to force others to dress in a certain way against their own will. Men who oppress women must be punished, and I also think they should be ashamed. Having said that, on the other hand, there are also women who, of their own free will, choose to dress burka and niqab. It is a choice that is completely incomprehensible to me, but it is their own choice. Then there is the question of whether, in a country that celebrates freedom, one can really legislate on how to dress. It is contrary to a liberal concept of freedom that you should not be able to dress as you like in a country. As mentioned earlier, this is a difficult issue with many built-in dilemmas, and we have discussed the issue thoroughly in the Liberal Alliance's parliamentary group. We are, in fact, pleased that we can have such discussions in our party. It's high to the ceiling, and we make room for each other. I respect the fact that different conclusions are reached on the issue of banning or not banning cover, and that is why we have decided to release our parliamentary group in this matter. Our analysis is the same. Burka and niqab symbolize a dark view of women. And from there we come to different conclusions on how best to help oppressed women without compromising the tradition of freedom that we have and love in Denmark. It may seem strange to some that you as a government party should free your group. This is not the first time that this has happened. In the past, there have been examples of a government party releasing its parliamentary group. There was the question of homosexuals' right to adoption, about artificial insemination, about the brain death criterion and about registered partnership. So this is nothing new, even though it does not happen every other day. This means that there are members of the Liberal Alliance parliamentary group who will vote in favour of this bill and that there will be members of the Liberal Alliance parliamentary group who will vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419171238	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419171241	Thank you. I want to know if the Liberal Alliance thinks it's okay if a primary school teacher wears a niqab or a burka, and whether the Liberal Alliance thinks it's okay if a student does it if a student does it if a teacher does it. In the view of the Liberal Alliance and in the view of Mrs Christina Egelund, will that be quite all right? Will that be the expression of good liberal policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419171310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419171311	No, it won't. In relation to the question of primary school, both on the student side and on the teacher side, I do not think that burka or niqab belong in primary school. And so it is in relation to all sorts of other institutions that it may be jobs, it may be educational institutions, it may be public jobs in different places. I hope that in those places you have such strong management that you are able to distance yourself from the women's oppressive symbol that both burka and niqab are.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419171342	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419171343	But it's not like that everywhere. It would be nice if that were the case, but it is not the case everywhere, that is to say, that you have a management that is able to take on character. And then, of course, we have the opportunity to do it as legislators. So I just find it hard to understand exactly what the Liberal Alliance means and exactly what Mrs Christina Egelund means. Because on the one hand they say that you will not put up with it, but on the other hand they say that you will put up with it anyway, if you decide locally that it is very sensible. Well, what's it gonna take to deal with this? I would like to ask the same question I put to the Enhedslisten. Is the Liberal Alliance prepared to use legislation as a tool against supporters of political Islam, that is, the most extreme part in Islam? Does the Liberal Alliance believe that it is okay to use legislation as a tool to come after them?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419171427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419171428	Yeah, we think so. And that's one of them. That is why we have supported measures in relation to anti-radicalisation, just to mention one example. But it is always a balance between how we respect, on the one hand, that we are a society with a great tradition of freedom, in which freedom of expression is respected, in which freedom of assembly is respected, in which the right to live as one is respected, and in which we express ourselves and unfold as one is now, and, on the other hand, how best to combat totalitarianism, how best to combat the darkened forces which, on all parameters, will be a completely different society from what I believe both the questioner and I agree to love. In the specific case of clothing, we in the Liberal Alliance are divided on what the right conclusion is. Personally, I do not think that it is the right answer to ban cover in relation to putting an end to women's oppression.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419171520	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward, and the next is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419171543	With this bill, the government is proposing a general cover ban. Thus, when or if the bill is adopted, wearing garments that hide the face in public places will be prohibited. This means that after the adoption of the bill, the wearer of a garment that hides the face can look forward to a fine of DKK 1,000. in first-time cases, and the level of fines then rises to DKK 10,000. in the fourth and later cases. The bill also suggests that there are cases where facial coverage is considered worthy of recognition and where the wearer is therefore not fined. In the public debate, which has been about burka and niqab, several members of parliament on both sides of the political spectrum have expressed in full public opinion that they saw a purely burka and niqab ban, and it has to be said that this is also the way it has been discussed from the platform today. There have also been statements that the police should condone anyone other than burka and niqab carriers. In other words, the police had to administer the law discriminatoryly. I think it is a little paradoxical that Members of Parliament who have signed up to respect the Constitution, including the principle of equality in Article 70 of the Constitution, are calling for discriminatory practices. Fortunately, however, the good lawyers in the Ministry of Justice have made it crystal clear that it is contrary to the Constitution to impose a purely burka and niqab ban. That is why we are here today to deal with a ban on cover and not a ban on burka and niqab. A little polemical, it can be said, that the government has put on their desired burka and niqab ban a legal garment which covers the real intention of the bill, namely to ban burka and niqab. I have been criticised for having met with two young women in niqab, and I have also been criticised for having taken pictures with them, and I have been referred to as one who is in favour of women's oppression. I completely disagree with that. When I invited the two women covered to a meeting, it is because I believe that we politicians should meet with the people that our legislation affects. The two women I met with were very well educated, they were very eloquent, and they had both chosen to go with this niqab despite their parents' wishes. Of course, they were very frustrated by this ban that was coming. Although I will probably never understand their choice, at any time I will defend their right to dress as they please. That's why I'm against this bill. Some say that this has to do with social policy and that we must combat social control. I cannot agree more that we should do that, but this proposal has nothing to do with social policy. No women are helped to leave a physically or psychologically violent partner by forbidding them to go outside a door dressed in what they want. You criminalize them and you punish them. The supporters of the ban forget that social control is not visible. A woman without a burka can be in a very violent physical or psychological relationship, while a woman in burka can carry it voluntarily. Therefore, an effort aimed only at these garments will, at best, miss the mark and, at worst, miss the mark. It is already a criminal offence to force someone to cover their face. The penalty framework is as much as four years in prison, and that is a good rule because it guarantees women's free choice to dress as they like. But this burka ban does exactly the opposite. This makes innocent women criminals who can no longer appear on the street without being fined. I think it is remarkable that we in the Danish Parliament want to legislate on an issue which is so highly controversial, especially when we remember the fundamental values with which this bill compromises, namely the right to determine its own dress. It may easily sound as if we in Denmark have a huge urgent problem with burka and niqab that the social interaction is totally absent and that the cohesion of our society is worn down to the sock holders. But the fact is that there are at most 200 individuals carrying burka or niqab in this country. And to me, it looks like we're getting a state that reacts with a ban on everything it doesn't understand. One cannot understand that a woman can choose the burka or the niqab voluntarily, so one assumes that she is forced to do so and forbids her. I do not think it is exactly a magnificent example of liberal democracy. I uphold the right to diversity, and I cherish that people should be allowed to think, believe and dress freely. That is why the alternative cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172106	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172112	Thank you. When the rapporteur says that everyone must dress as they please, does the rapporteur really think so? Now let's assume that there's a group coming to Denmark that thinks it's very hip to wear the Ku Klux Klan uniform. It's also being banned by this proposal. I can say that the Danish People's Party would not under any circumstances feel that it was acceptable, but I understand that the rapporteur likes that interpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172147	I think people should be able to walk exactly what they want. The Ku Klux Klan is then an association that we have discussed earlier today that works by violence. If the government gets through that bill on the winding-up of associations that work through violence, then such an association will be possible in accordance with the Constitution. Maybe it's really hard to do. We have also discussed this earlier today. I believe that it can be uncertain whether we can dismantle such an association according to the constitution, but then we can at least punish individual Members, and it must be the actions we punish if a person calls for violence and commits violence against other people, as we know that the Ku Klux Klan is in the habit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172233	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172236	I'm not talking about an association, I'm talking about dress. The rapporteur said literally: everyone must dress as they please. It may be about some who are not even members of the Ku Klux Klan, but who think it might be fun to get some signals sent that way. We're not vouching for it. Does the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172258	I said before that I am in favour of people dressing as they please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172304	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. We move on to the next one, and that is Mrs Zenia Stampe as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172312	Thank you. Today we are going to deal with the government, the Danish People's Party and the burka ban on social democracy. I know that this is formally referred to as a cover-up ban, but we all know what this is all about: the Muslim costumes burka and niqab. In the Radical Left we are fundamentally opposed to the state interfering in what people are wearing. It is not a state matter whether people go covered or covered or whether they use their clothing as political or religious pillars of advertising. It is an individual choice, and it is a matter of personal freedom. The only legitimate right of the state to interfere is to defend this freedom from the intervention of others. Of course, we should not accept that people are being harassed because of their dress, for example. because of niqab or scarf, but we should not, of course, allow people to be forced to dress in a certain way, for example. their spouse. That is why we are also pleased that it is already apparent from section 260 of the Criminal Code. 3, that it can give up to 4 years in prison if you force others to wear burka or niqab. We do not think this is an interference in personal freedom; on the contrary, it is a guarantee of personal freedom, because it is also the role of the state, that is to say, not only to refrain from violating personal freedom but also to protect citizens from violations of their freedom by other citizens. The state of law is already clear today. If you have to wear burka or niqab, it must be as a result of a free choice. If it is not, we, as a society and a state, have an obligation to intervene and ensure the freedom and free choice of the individual. That is why this proposal is not about preventing repression, even though it has been one of the most frequently used arguments in the debate and perhaps particularly in the Social Democratic Party, but the word repression appears, as far as I have been able to count it out, only once in the text and quite far down in the comments. If this really was about helping those women who are subjected to coercion, why are we not making a law instead of saying that it should, but that is not what this proposal is about. This proposal punishes instead of those who have been subjected to coercion. This is, of course, equivalent to imposing a fine on the woman who has been subjected to wife violence because she goes out into the street with a black eye. And then there are all those who choose to wear burka or niqab of their own choice. And they exist, although it can be really difficult for many of us to understand. But sometimes people's ways are unsearchable, and they must also have the right to do so. But, of course, all personal choices have consequences, and that is why we have no problem if a job centre takes the cash assistance from women with burka because they consider that they are not available for the labour market. That is fair, but this proposal is to punish the oppressed who have been subjected to coercion, and it is to suppress the free who have made a personal choice. We do not want to be a part of this and therefore we cannot support the proposal. This was what I had prepared from home, but I would like to make a further small comment. I noticed that Mr. Martin Henriksen said in his rapporteur's speech that Burka was an expression of extremism and intolerance and therefore should be banned. Then I just find it hard to understand why the Danish People's Party will at the same time allow foreigners to be called perkers or Jews as pests. Is it not also an expression of intolerance and extremism? What's this? So intolerance and extremism are quite okay as long as it affects minorities? At least I have a tiny bit of difficulty in understanding the consistency of the two positions, and we have discussed them this week. Two days ago it was the law on racism which the Danish People's Party believes should be removed because we have freedom of expression. So freedom of expression must also be given to express extremist and intolerant attitudes, but today it is said that women must not wear niqab and burka because it is an expression of extremism and intolerance. There is no consistency unless, I think, we all actually know the Danish People's Party well enough. It is about intolerance and extremism being quite fine as long as it comes from the majority and is aimed at the minority. Here you go, thanks for the coffee. This is very far from our conviction. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172826	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172830	Thank you. Now the rapporteur has taken a few words in his mouth that I could never dream of taking in my mouth and then even from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament. I think it's great! I would like to ask the rapporteur the same question I asked just now. When the rapporteur says that you should have the free choice to dress as you like, does that also apply if it is the case that people will run around the city with the Ku Klux Klan uniforms on?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172856	Yeah, or like bananas in pajamas or whole suit, or whatever it may be. But it is clear that if it is as a pillar of advertising for an association which works by violence and which, moreover, is racist, and a case is brought against that association and it is dissolved, then it will also be forbidden to wear the Ku Klux Klan suit. I think that is the way to deal with it. If suddenly a large Ku Klux Klan association came to Denmark, I hope so too, then I hope that the Attorney General would investigate the possibility of disbanding that association and then in connection with it also make it illegal to put on the marks of the association.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419172943	Again, I want to say that I'm not asking about the association, because those people could be some people who just wanted to make a statement. It could be someone who just wanted to come up with a hint with a truck pole, if that's what you're saying. So I'm talking about the costume in itself and not about any association... they don't have to be a member of any association at all. We in the Danish People's Party will under no circumstances vouch for people to dress as Ku Klux Klan in Denmark. But I understand that the rapporteur is in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419173015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419173016	Well, you can't separate those two things. It cannot be said that it is not as a member of the association, but it is just a political statement. Yes, it is a political statement, because it is the hallmark of a deeply racist and violent union, and therefore the natural step will be to examine whether it can be dissolved and then to make it illegal to go around as a pillar of publicity for racism and violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419173040	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419173046	As a socialist, I stand on the shoulders of the Enlightenment, of the cultural radicals, of the youth uprising, of the women's movement. SF is the child of freedom movements, rebellion against conservative standards, rebellion against authorities and nonsense about predestined fates, whether it be social or religious. SF kicks for rigid systems and old-fashioned tanks. We will make each man a driver of his own life. SF allies with the undogmatic, the liberal, the modern religious people. We love heretics and freethinkers, we love question marks rather than exclamation marks. The Left fights against reactionary literal beliefs and almost always patriarchal cultures and limiting thought patterns. Suppression takes many forms, and chains can be camouflaged. The most sublime oppression occurs when the oppressed defends the tyrant; when the slave kisses his chains, and when the burka-clad defends the cover, oppression is complete. The physical prison has bars for the windows, the mental cage prison has bars in front of its eyes. But I don't want women hidden away, locked up, controlled. If it is so dangerous for some men to see women who are not covered, I actually have a proposal. Instead of burka, niqab and scarves, I would suggest that the men have a scarf tied tightly around their eyes. Social control destroys people and society, gender apartheid is the incarnation of reactionary religiousness. Burn the burkas, the slogan could be appropriate, bearing in mind the actions of the 1970s, when the red socks burned the bras. But as a very wise man once said in another context: the liberation of the working class is the work of the working class itself. Similarly, the liberation of women is primarily the work of women themselves. Is a ban the way forward for more freedom and fight against reactionary, religious and cultural patterns? Can this really be done at the push of a button in this Chamber? If it were that simple, I would consider voting in favour of the bill. But this bill, on the contrary, is a helping hand for Hizb ut-Tahrir and other religious fanatics. If the bill is adopted, we will confirm the political and religious and cultural project of the Islamists in their demarcation and struggle against our free and open and democratic society. Let us reject the bill and thereby annoy religious extremists right down to the hot ground, where, incidentally, I wish them all to go, if I believed in that kind of metaphysical idea. Support the struggle of modern women for freedom, burn the burkas, but it is women themselves who must carry them to the stake. The fight for freedom and equality takes place every day. It is the political, cultural and religious struggle in everyday life, and there is SF with each time, but not by a law in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419173520	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419173525	Thank you. Do you want me to understand that the argument put forward by Mr. Karsten Hønge and SF, in relation to the fact that you cannot support a ban, is that then the Islamists will be able to use it against us as part of their propaganda? If that is the argument, then I think it is a very thin argument, because the Islamists, Hizb ut-Tahrir, or whoever it might be, might as well take Mr. Karsten Hønge's speech and use it as propaganda against us. And then they can say, "Look, inside the Folketing they don't like us anyway. So I just want to know if that really is the main argument for not being able to support the proposal we are talking about here. For there I just want to point out that Hizb ut-Tahrir and the Islamists really do not like us, no matter what we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419173610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419173611	It's kind of both. In other words, I was sure that other rapporteurs would certainly argue in favour of personal freedom and that the state should impose restrictions on when to take action against the individual's dress. That's why I chose to put the weight somewhere else. Because I also have one argument with which several other rapporteurs have put forward it. But I have the other thing, because if it just helped to pass such a law, then we should do it. But this law will be used as an argument for demarcation, whereas what I am contributing here is the political, cultural, religious debate that I think they will have to deal with more than being able to define in relation to a law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419173652	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419173654	Thank you for your answer. But I just think we have tried with the debate, the dialogue and so on. And, of course, you have to keep doing that. But I am just calling for the Socialist People's Party and Mr. Karsten Hønge arrives at a recognition that there are some people who cannot be reached with debate and dialogue. Well, they're out of educational reach. They are very far away from all of us in many different ways, mentally and culturally etc. They cannot be reached with debate and dialogue. And then you have to reach them in other ways. And if you do not want, for example. To use legislation as a tool to reach them and to prevent them from doing certain things, what will be done by the Socialist People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419173735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419173736	Well, I'd like to give Mr. Simpson a hand. Martin Henriksen is right that sometimes it can look literally black when you discuss this. But I just don't think that the alternative is that if some people have opinions you don't like, you make a law against it. Well, it's kind of like, uh, sir. Martin Henriksen believes that there is an act of vandalism in which the adoption of a law avoids action where the substance is, namely in the fight for values, in culture and in the religious clash. I think it is such an attempt to go beyond the real point of the fight, namely the fight against these profoundly reactionary, patriarchal patterns that exist in some places. And they must have a fight for the line every day... not just on the day of the vote here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419173819	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no more brief comments, and we therefore welcome Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419173827	It's a big day today... a final showdown with the powerful women's oppressive symbols, burka and niqab. We've been a long time. We proposed it in the Conservative People's Party as early as 2009, but there was no mood for that, so we were a little ahead of our time. But now it's there, better late than never. Burka and niqab are about making the woman invisible in public; she must be hidden away. The cover should prevent the woman from tempting the man because the woman per. definition is the time limit. But why should women suffer that men cannot control themselves? At least I haven't met a single man wearing burka or niqab. It belongs to the women, and it is strongly oppressive to women. Each time the subject of bans on burka and niqab is discussed, it comes forward with arguments for and against. I have attached myself to four widespread counter-arguments that I would like to refute. The first counter-argument concerns the number. There are not many, it is claimed. In 2009, it was established that there were approx. 200 burka- or niqab-dressed women in Denmark. The figure was not based on a census, but was merely an estimate made by the University of Copenhagen. In fact, I believe that there are many more, and I would say that the phenomenon is growing because of the increase in Islamisation. But it is not just about the number, it is about the principle. Burka and niqab are women's oppressors, and if there were only five, I think it would be appropriate to legislate on it. What will we accept that women are exposed to? If it is only 5, 10, 15 or 20 that are being forced, should we just overlook the fact that they are being deprived of their freedom? We have previously legislated in areas to protect a small minority, for example with the 24-year rule in relation to forced marriages. There we made the 24-year rule to protect the few women who were forced to marry, but many were affected. But it was worth it, because in that way we came to help those who were forced into marriages they didn't want. I know there are a few who choose it for themselves. It's often converts, and they just tend to exaggerate. Another counter-argument is that a ban is symbolic policy. All policy is symbolic policy, and this is symbolic policy in the positive way. We cannot and must not accept oppression in our societies, and those who believe that symbolism can be used as an argument have not understood the women's oppressive thoughts behind cover. Then there is the counter-argument that it is not liberal to interfere in how people dress. Today, however, it is not permitted to walk naked down the pedestrian street. With the last counter-argument, some believe that women will not be allowed out if a ban becomes a reality. On the contrary, a ban will help those women who do not want to cover themselves up. Legislation has proved to have a positive effect on women in other areas, such as: that they must learn Danish and work if they are to receive social benefits. For many of the Islamists, they are only Islamists until it hits their purses. We live in an open and free society and we must be able to see the faces of our fellow citizens. We in Denmark communicate with the body, we communicate with the face, we use mimics, allusions and hints, and this actually happens with the face, and therefore we must at least demand to be able to see our fellow citizen's face. To those who are not yet convinced and who believe that women are pulling the black tent-like clothing over their heads with joy: try it for yourself a warm day like today. And then let's talk again after. P.S. In fact, in this debate today, I am surprised that we have male rapporteurs speaking in favour of protecting women and their rights, and female rapporteurs defending a strongly oppressive symbol of women, apart from Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419174339	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments. And we warmly welcome the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419174346	Thank you. Thank you for your contributions and thank you for the broad support for the proposal I have heard here today. Thank you to the Danish People's Party, which has supported it all the way through. Thank you to the Social Democratic Party for supporting the proposal. I am pleased that we could recently come together to focus on social control in connection with the proposal here. In today's debate I can, of course, hear various interpretations and interpretations of what the government's draft law might be like. So let me start by saying that for me, this is really quite simple. For it is essentially about the Denmark that we want. It is about the cohesion and the values that bind us together about freedom, about democracy, about equality, about respect for the community. It is Danish values that have shaped our history and which must also be our compass in the years to come. I believe that our values are strong, but we must not just think that they stand by themselves. For me, it is a bottom-up task to guard over the values that, through tradition, have made us who we are. It can be big words on such a random day in April, and you can agree or disagree with whether that is where you have to put the weight, and that is fair enough. But in the end, that is what the proposal is about for me and for the government. We want to put a line in the sand. We say no to meeting each other in Denmark with the face hidden, alienating and alienated. We say no to walking symbols of parallel societies and a Shadow Denmark outside of law and order. We say no because it does not match with our cohesion in Denmark or respect for our community to meet each other with the face hidden. It wears out our trust in both society and each other. If it doesn't matter, you might ask if you can see a face like that from one face to the next. But no, it doesn't matter, because when we see each other, it's the face we see and read. We know each other on the face. We meet with the face. We can see how the person feels about us whether you're happy or sad, whether you're tired or stressed, or whether you're having fun and trouble. We can see if the other person thinks that what you are saying is nonsense or whether you are on the same wavelength and understand each other. Doesn't it matter? It does for me. Of course you have to believe what you want. This is not about persecuting religions or minorities or banning religious symbols. It is about respect for our community and Danish society, where we meet each other in a proper way and where we show the trust and respect that it is to let each other see the person and the face we are dealing with. It is with the aim that the government is now proposing in concrete terms a new ban on cover, that is to say a ban on wearing garments in public places that hide their faces. Infringements of the prohibition shall be penalised by penalties which shall increase in cases of repetition. Saved from the ban is the cover of the face, which has a worthy purpose, as the bill says. For of course there are exceptions where there may be a good reason why the face cannot be seen. It can be winter clothes when it's cold outside. These can be costumes and masks in connection with carnival or Halloween. Or it may be a cover-up of the face that happens because you simply do your job, for example as a mascot for the local football team. The many examples in the bill must help our authorities so that they can handle the new rules in a good way. Of course, you need to know what the objective of this proposal is. And that is precisely why, in the draft law, we are giving a number of guidelines and examples of how the ban is to be administered. That is also why we have listened to the wishes of the National Police and the Police Union and said that, hopefully, once the proposal has been adopted here in the Danish Parliament, we will work with the police to make an briefing letter to give the individual officer an overview of what the proposal is about. Actually, I think that makes a lot of sense. When the ban comes into force, we should not forget to trust our skilled Danish police. Well, I certainly do. I think we should be careful to tie our skilled policemen on our hands and feet with square legal rules and play police commissioners in here from Christiansborg. I have great confidence in the Danish police, and I am also confident that our skilled officers can handle a new cover-up ban in a good and proper way based on a police professional assessment of the specific situation. But thank you for the debate. I look forward to it continuing about our Danish values and cohesion, about the Denmark we want to preserve. And, of course, I am at the disposal of any questions that may be raised now and during the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419174902	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419174905	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for an excellent bill. I would like to ask about the part that is about fines, because that is one of them. has been there that an Arab rich man has said, as far as I remember, that he will be helpful in paying any fines that may come. This may well give rise to some challenges, because it might as well make the law liable to be ineffective if it is the case that a rich man is constantly riding I do not know if it is on the white horse and arranges to pay the fines that may be. Is that not an argument for considering prison sentences? 'Cause I don't suppose he's gonna sit it off on behalf of those women who could be punished because they're wearing burka or niqab.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419174953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419174955	It would also be difficult to take over the penalty in this way. Well, I think we're gonna have to put cold water in our blood. I mean, it takes more than a media stunt this rich man brought in to knock me off course. Let us now pass the bill, and let us see what effect the ban has. It could also be that some people actually complied with the legislation. It's been seen before. The discussion we have had in the government, of course, is where this cut is to be made. And we have then agreed that it is a fine. But it is clear that we must follow developments. We're not supposed to be a joke.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175037	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175038	When the Minister says that we are going to follow developments, is there an opening to the possibility of imposing prison sentences at some point if someone is violating the ban in question? There is no reason to hide the fact that we in the Danish People's Party believe that it would be appropriate, possibly combined with fines. But is there an opening in this that the government will consider it and that the Minister will consider it at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175103	Well, in the first place, that's not what's being considered. But it is clear that if we now imagine the situation that all the fines that came were clearly paid by others, so that it really did not matter to those people who did not comply with the law, then we have to sit down and talk about whether there is a basis for doing something more. But right now, the government stands on the view that it is a fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175133	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175136	Thank you and thank the Minister for the speech. I am in favour of the Minister having full confidence in the police, but I would like to hear from the Minister how he envisages this ban being enforced. Would the Minister not be so kind as to make some specific proposals or, at least, suggestions as to how this ban is to be enforced? I have to admit, I'm having a little trouble seeing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175208	It must be enforced, just as any other legislation must. In fact, I think that, if you look at the legislative proposal, we have tried to put it in a very sensible way with guidelines and examples of how it should be handled. And, as I said before, we must, together with the police, make a briefing letter to the police circles on how to deal with it. And then Mrs. Rosa Lund and I both know the Danish police, and we know that it handles the officers. In other words, if questions are asked, what will happen if there are some who violate the law, if that is the case, for example. is Mrs. Rosa Lund, but I don't think that's what chooses to walk around in a burka, so if the police see it, she'll be stopped and punished. If the questioner lives nearby, it may be that the police choose to say: You live right over there; now you either go home, take off the burka or come to the station. The police will handle that. But I do think it makes sense to make a letter of briefing to the police, so you try to clarify it as best you can.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175313	That can then lead me a little further to my next question. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, the consultation note on page 6 states that the Minister has had a dialogue with the National Police on this bill. And then I am just surprised that this dialogue does not appear anywhere in the hearings, in the comments or anywhere else for that matter. So I just want to make sure that the Minister will ensure that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights have a thorough knowledge of this dialogue, so that when we deal with this bill, we actually know what the Minister is talking about with the National Police.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175355	Ministe pure Ministe riet Of course they do. I'd be surprised if you didn't. It would be crazy if you made such a proposal here and did not have a dialogue with the National Police on how it should be a normal dialogue, and it could be more than a telephone conversation or other things about what is of challenge. It is then also described in the consultation note what the National Police have expressed in terms of concerns and what needs to be corrected. There's nothing unnatural about that. I wondered, when I heard Mrs Lund's speech, that it had been struck down, and I thought it was strange, because I think it is the most natural thing in the world. I don't think I quite caught what the problem is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175436	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175438	Will the Minister take the initiative to identify how many burka- and niqab-clad women are in Denmark and to assess how many are carrying burka and niqab as a result of coercion?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175455	I'm not going to start spending a lot of resources on that. I am going to implement legislation, and then I assume that people are complying with the law, and if they do not, we will take action against it. If the questioner's question is that she does not think it is such a big problem, then it is only nice. Then there's no need for us to get excited about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175510	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175512	I must therefore understand that it is not a problem if you carry burka or niqab at home. But then I would like to ask how it can be that no cases have yet been brought against spouses for forcing their spouses to wear burka or niqab. Is it not an expression of either that there are not so many who are subjected to coercion or a lack of priority on the part of the police? And what does the chief chief of police say about the lack of priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175556	If the police are to do something, it usually presupposes that something is reported or that something can be done about it. Well, if there are people, and you could imagine that there are women forced to wear burka, then it might be that we are now making a bill that means that we must not be able to get those women to stand up and say: that is enough; now I will not live under the yoke of tyrants anymore! Because you can get pretty severe punishment for forcing people to wear this particular garment. That's an opportunity you have now. We don't go around looking for people to see if there's anyone there, and if we've heard of somebody breaking the law. We have now got something in on social control, so if the police stop somebody and there's suspicion, you put in. But otherwise, I guess people will report it to the police if they're exposed to something that's not legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175656	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175659	Thank you. In one of the consultation responses, Justitia says that the cover ban can be difficult to enforce because it is so generally formulated that it seems inappropriate to ensure effective and sensible enforcement. What can the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175720	The Minister disagrees with that. In fact, I think that in this bill we have got it pretty well, so I just don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175728	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175729	Then I will follow up on what Mrs Zenia Stampe is asking. After all, the Institute for Human Rights points out in their hearing that it can actually do this, that some women are being isolated from the rest of society and that it can actually help to strengthen the creation of a parallel society, which is something that this ban must prevent. So what are there plans to strengthen the effort? I mean, I think it is a good question that Mrs Zenia Stampe raises to investigate how big the problem is and whether there are some we really need to help behind the four walls of the home.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175808	As for spending a lot of resources and doing a lot of research, I have to assume that this law is just like any other law. And it is the case that if the law is not observed, action will be taken. If you get a report, the police will intervene. If some people are living in oppression, then one must hope that it will come out in one way or another. That's what we'd want. We all have an interest in achieving this. But this whole thing about going out and saying that we're gonna have to look at who's going in burka and how we're gonna figure it out and where they live, and we're gonna have to knock and so on, I don't think that's the way we're gonna do this. I'm just assuming people keep the law. I'm so weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175857	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more brief comments. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That does not seem to be the case, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If any of you do not object, it shall consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175921	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419175952	Thank you. The purpose of the resolution is to strengthen passport security by reducing the number of lost passports. Firstly, it is proposed that citizens should in future collect their passports personally in civil service rather than send them by post. Secondly, it is proposed that citizens who lose their passports or have them stolen should in future be able to obtain a new passport during the 10-year period of validity of the passport. The government agrees that high passport security is essential to minimise the risk of passport misuse for illegal purposes. If the government cannot support the resolution, this is because the proposal will be a great nuisance to a great many citizens, without, in our view, effectively solving the problem of lost passports. As the rules are today, you can order your passport at a personal appearance at a citizen's service. Once the passport has been completed, the citizen can choose whether to pick it up personally from the citizens' service or to have it sent directly by post. However, you must always show up in person if you have not returned your last passport to the citizen's service in connection with the application. The procedure was introduced to make it easier and less resource-intensive for citizens to obtain a passport. In the past, the passport had to be picked up at the police station. In 2017, approx. 460,000 passports in the mail. Of the 460,000 passports, 228 have been registered as lost in the mail. Of course, it is not satisfactory for passports to remain in the post, and that is why I have also asked the National Police to check whether there is anything that can be done to make postal services even safer. However, in my view, in view of the relatively limited number of passports disappearing in the post, it would be disproportionate to require more than 400 000 people to come personally in the civil service to pick up their passports. I do not think this is appropriate and I do not believe that it is appropriate to use either the time of the citizens or the resources of society. The second part of the motion for a resolution proposes, as I have said, to limit the number of passports that a person may be issued over a 10-year period. Last year was barely 1%. of all valid Danish passports reported lost. Some were stolen, others were probably forgotten in a drawer or behind a dresser somewhere. It is, of course, a significant problem that so many lose their passports. The passport is an important document that we all, as individuals, have a duty to take good care of. However, the implementation of the proposal will mean that citizens who have lost or even had two passports stolen within a period of 10 years will not be able to obtain a new passport during that period. In fact, they will find it very difficult to go abroad on holiday, on business or to settle there, and therefore the proposal will hit a significant number of ordinary citizens disproportionately hard. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Having said that, there is no doubt that passport security is an important matter, and that is why we must also ensure as far as possible that there is no room for people who do not have real intentions. I have asked the National Police to look into cases of people who are given a lot of passports so that we can learn more about the scale of the problem. At the same time, I have asked the National Police to come up before the summer break with a concrete proposal on what can be done to strengthen the control of the issuing of passports in those cases where, for example, there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases where there are cases We should be able to take a targeted approach to cases where there may be a risk that the passport will be used for illegal purposes, rather than that we must bother all law-abiding citizens with delayed demands and procedures.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419180349	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419180354	Thank you. I am pleased that the Minister acknowledges the premise that the security of our passports must be very high and I am pleased that the Minister will look into this subject in greater detail. The Minister's predecessor also did so back in 2016, and nothing significant happened about that. I am just curious when you say by the government that you want to look at strengthening security, but reject these two concrete proposals, which were the proposals we could immediately find that you could use to strengthen security, whether the government has any suggestions on what to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419180430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419180432	I recognise that this is difficult and that is why we have entered into a dialogue with the National Police. Passport control has been considerably strengthened in recent years. There is now a random check on passports at temporary border controls at the border with Germany, and there is systematic and thorough passport checks at Denmark's external Schengen borders. It has therefore become more difficult to use an invalid passport to cross the borders of Denmark and Schengen. In view of this, I still respect the fact that we must be very careful about this, and that is why I have asked the National Police to come forward with some proposals before the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419180512	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419180514	Border controls are a good idea, and we can quickly agree on that, the Minister and I. But now I just want to ask, because the Minister specifically mentioned that it was a problem with these two passports during the period of validity: how much did you have to change this so that the government would support that element of the proposal? In other words, how many passports does the Minister think we should be able to obtain if an existing passport is lost? There's this 10-year period of validity. So how often do you have to throw away the passport to get a new one if the minister could decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419180542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419180543	I think that is a very good question to which I do not have such an immediate firm answer, in that way of understanding that I think that many have tried to forget where it was, you put it last, if people do not travel so much, and it can of course stay away, and it can of course be stolen. In fact, what I think we should be hard on, and which we are also looking into, is that which I think is actually the most important thing about those who get strikingly many passports issued, i.e. the small group as it is, but nevertheless. I think that's the most important thing to get a look at and stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419180619	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and we therefore welcome Mr. Morten Bødskov from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419180635	Thank you for that, President. The Minister of Justice has, of course, explained in detail the proposal. We can lean a long way on the Justice Minister's arguments not to support this proposal. Nevertheless, I think it is important that we spend some time on it and find out how we can strengthen our efforts so that we do not continue to see the developments that we are seeing now when far too many passports disappear. There are running stories that this is happening. We don't know for sure what happens to these many lost passports. Are they being sold on the black market? There's a sign of that. What are they used for? Yes, that is the discussion. When it comes to what we do about it, we share the views of the Minister for Justice in relation to the concrete proposal here from the Danish People's Party. A lot of people are asked to show up in community service. It's not even certain they have room for all these people in case they come. It's, I think, just violent enough. It is also just as violent enough that it will then only be possible to have a passport issued further beyond what you are, of course, entitled to. But that does not mean that we are not ready to look at proposals that can enable us to get a better hold of this. I think that the initiatives taken by the Minister of Justice in relation to the National Police sound reasonable. This is something we have discussed many times, and I think that the Minister for Justice should try to call the parties of the Folketing to talk about how we can get a better hold of this, but get hold of a way that is also realistic and realistic and that does not mean that in some places, for example. In civil service, we need to spend a lot more resources dealing with a problem here that we might find other ways of dealing with. So social democracy cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419180831	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419180835	Thank you. Although the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal, I would like to express my thanks for the comments made by the rapporteur, whom I believe to be positive in many ways, namely that we recognise that there is a problem here which we would like to help solve. Sir. Morten Bødskov specifically mentioned this with the number of passports during the period of validity. So I'm going to ask the same question to Mr. Morten Bødskov, whom I put to the Minister for Justice: Where is the pain limit, so how many passports could you imagine that people would have to be handed over during this 10-year period if it were lost? That may happen, but what should the limitation be like? And then I'm gonna ask sir. Morten Bødskov about the actually excellent remark made by the Minister of Justice that one had to look very carefully at whether there was a group that abused this, so a lot of passports were made during the period of validity.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419180924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419180925	I think this is the last way to go. I believe that we need a relatively pragmatic approach to this. Hopefully there's in the system that I know there's an overview of who gets how many passports. You could start by looking at the statistics, and then you could try to wonder a little about the fact that there are apparently people who need to have showers of passports. And then you could tackle that problem without bothering ordinary citizens, who are unfortunate. Some may be unlucky once or twice or three times, as it is sometimes. But those situations where there are few people who get a lot of new passports, I think you should try to concentrate on. We can sit down and look at that. In any case, the Social Democrats are ready for this, because there is no doubt that there may well be a problem we should try to look at here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181013	Thank you. I understood that there were no more questions. Thank you, sir. Morten Bødskov. Welcome to sir. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181023	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for bringing this issue up. It has been the subject of the debate and has also been documented that there is a very serious problem of lost passports, which, moreover, as far as I am aware, is being traded too neatly on the black market around the world. The Danish People's Party's proposal contains two elements. One element is that there must be a limitation on how many passports you can get issued. And the second element is that you have to pick it up on a personal appearance. If we take the first one first, however, it was the most natural thing to do about the limitation in the number of passports, then I see in the comments that one only should be able to obtain a new passport in addition to the original one for a period of 10 years. I fully understand the background, but I have to say that this is a far too serious consequence. I mean, if you get your passport stolen, it's not like you just threw it away yourself, you're somehow trapped with the last passport you can get in the next 10 years. So we cannot support that, but, as I said, we respect the attention of the Danish People's Party to this serious issue. The second element is that you have to pick up your passport at a personal appearance. Both the Minister for Justice and the previous speaker, sir. Morten Bødskov, has explained what problems may be involved in this arrangement. We have to say that it is 228 passports that disappeared in 2017. That's 228 passports in the mail out of 460,000 shipments. Not that the 228 passports are not a serious problem when they come out and are being translated into the black market, but at first sight I think, unfortunately, and perhaps fortunately, that it is too small a problem to make such a radical change as is proposed here. And I guess that's also a change that means that people themselves need to go to the community service to pick up a passport, 460,000, many people are going to be bothered. So from the Left we sign for a problem and we sign for the Minister of Justice to work on it. But we cannot agree to this solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181251	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. Welcome to Mrs. Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181258	Thank you. There is no doubt that lost passports are a major problem, but I am not sure that the Danish People's Party's proposal is the solution. I very much agree with some of the arguments put forward by previous rapporteurs, and I would add that I actually see this as a bit of a bureaucratic manoeuvre, which will be a major nuisance to the majority of Danes who are issued new passports each year because the old ones have expired or because they have lost their passports. We in the Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal. We recognise that there is a problem and we would like to discuss how it can be resolved, but this is too bureaucratic an exercise.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181348	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. Welcome to Mrs. Christina Egelund of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181358	Thank you very much. It is important to safeguard citizens' legal certainty and to prevent personal and private documents and information such as passports from falling into the wrong hands. However, we cannot support the way in which the Danish People's Party proposes to pick up its passport in the future, namely on a personal appearance at the citizens' service. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not believe that it makes sense to make the process of passport renewal more cumbersome and difficult for citizens than it already is. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181436	That was short and precise, thank you very much. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181441	Thank you. In the alternative, we fully agree that the disappearance of passports is problematic, but what is proposed in this motion for a resolution, namely that we have to pick it up in person and show up, we think, when it is so few passports, that it is out of the total amount of passports, will make it bureaucratic and cumbersome for all those people who do not lose their passports, but just need to have a new passport issued. The other things that are proposed in relation to the fact that you can lose it at all to get a passport issued, if you lose your passport then and so many times, we are very opposed, for what if you go out and travel with your company or company, what if you go on holiday etc.? That would restrict the freedom of movement far too much. Then I would like to sign for what the Minister said, because as I see it, the Minister obviously takes this problem seriously and has set things off. We fully support that, and we wait eagerly to hear what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181554	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock and welcome to Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181600	Sometimes I think that there are some people in this Parliament who misunderstand their role or forget that there is a difference between executive and legislative power. I find it a little difficult to understand why this proposal is being discussed in the Assembly. Why is this not a question, as Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen asks the Minister how big the problem is and what the Minister will do to do something about it. Why should we sit in the Folketing and discuss how passports should be sent or retrieved? It's not like I think it's wasting my time. I just think there's a lack of understanding of proportions and division of labour here. But respect for raising the issue, but, as I said, it could also be done in other ways, such as: on a question. Now we are here, but I have to say that when I read the proposal, I thought that if there really was a need for this, wouldn't the Minister himself have suggested it? I understand that this is something that the Minister is focusing on and that something is being done about it. But that is not something that can justify making such radical changes and, moreover, starting to legislate on how people should get a passport.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181712	It gave rise to a brief remark from the author, Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181716	I am always so fond of the honesty of Mrs Zenia Stampe, because in this way we can easily see that we are very, very disagreeable. 40,000 passports in round numbers disappear every year, and from the Danish People's Party we think this is a big problem, because we know that these passports are keys to our kingdom. So I just wanted to ask Mrs Zenia Stampe if I heard correctly, namely that Mrs Zenia Stampe says that this is not a problem and that the Radical Left does not think it is a problem. Am I hearing right or wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181747	That's not what I said. I said that if you want to raise this problem of respect for the division of labour between the executive and the legislature, you ask the Minister a question and ask what the extent of the problem is and what the Minister intends to do. Then it might be that we were given a slightly more qualified offer of the solution than what the Danish People's Party has put forward for discussion today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181813	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Sir. Karsten Hønge is not here, sir. Naser Khader is not here, and then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Naser Khader. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419181839	Thank you. Let me start by expressing my sincere thanks to the rapporteurs and also to the Minister for the comments that have been made. I am glad that there is widespread recognition in Parliament that we are facing a problem here that we need to resolve. Back in 2016, the issue was at the end of the day, and at that time it would be examined how to deal with this problem. We note that not so much has happened, and on that basis we chose to table this resolution because we regard every passport as a key to Denmark, which we must of course take great care of, because we do not intend to let anyone into our lovely country. With the proposal here, we have two concrete suggestions on how to deal with this challenge. On the one hand, we propose that you show up and pick up your passport yourself, just as you had to in the past, so there is nothing new about that, because it has been done before. It is our hope that it can limit the loss of Danish passports by about 200 • the number swings a little, but about 200 • a year. We must try to limit the losses that exist wherever they are, and this is certainly something we can tackle. At the same time, we propose that restrictions be placed on the number of passports available. I really think it was an excellent suggestion made by the Minister that we should look at whether there is a special group that gets a very large number of passports. I also believe that there should be a limit to how many passports can be issued during the period of validity, but whether we have settled on the right balance, we can talk about it in the Committee on Legal Affairs or with the government in order to find a balance on that issue. We are very concerned that these passports fall into the wrong hands. Europol and Interpol have said in the past that the problem of lost passports and lost identity documents is a real security problem. We also know that, in connection with some of the terrorist attacks that have hit Europe in recent years, terrorists have used stolen passports and identity documents to create false identities in order to smuggle themselves into Europe and to hit ordinary citizens. We are, of course, extremely concerned about this, and that is why we want this to be tightened up. But overall, we are pleased with many of the comments, and then we have to take this talk further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419182125	There are no brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen for today's efforts. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? Does the Minister? No. As no one else wanted to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419182154	The debate is open. And the Minister of Justice is welcome on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419182214	Thank you. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to increase the penalty for disturbing the work of the Folketing. Today you can be punished by a fine or a prison period up to 2 years if, by noise or disorder, you disturb the work of the Danish Parliament. Among other things, the proposers want the penalty provided for in the provision to be increased from two to three years in prison and for infringement of the provision to trigger a minimum sentence of 14 days of unconditional imprisonment. Consequently, the possibility of imposing a fine will be completely removed from the provision. It will also have the consequence that, as a general rule, the penalty will be included in the private criminal record for three years. For while a fine is based on the private criminal record for two years, a prison sentence appears as a starting point for three years. It is clear from the comments made on the motion for a resolution that the proposers want to signal that disruption of the work of the Folketing is a serious matter. I think we are all very much in agreement with that. If, however, I and the other government do not support the motion for a resolution, it is because we see no real need to make the amendments to section 137 proposed by the proposal. I would like to explain why. As I have said, the proposal means that the penalty will be increased from two to three years in prison and that the possibility of imposing a fine will be removed entirely from the provision. As the authors of the motion correctly state in their comments on the motion for a resolution, infringement of Article 137 is usually punishable by a fine, but that paragraph also allows prison sentences to be imposed today. And I actually think that if I'm to be completely honest, it's quite reasonable that this provision allows both the penalty and the prison sentence to be imposed. And I believe that it should continue to be possible to impose a fine when it is specifically considered that prison would be too harsh a penalty. I do not want to underestimate in any way the seriousness of disturbing the work of the Folketing; it must of course be punished. But the question is whether it is necessary to go so far as to say that it must always be punished by prison. And I don't think so. I think it makes sense to retain the possibility of imposing fines for infringement of Article 137 (1). 2. And that is why we do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419182436	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur's line. Right now, sir. Morten Bødskov of the Social Democratic Party to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419182504	Thank you for the floor, President. The Minister for Justice has once again explained the content of this motion for a resolution, and I think it has to be said that here too we are perfectly well in line with the Minister for Justice's remarks. The proposal, we think, works, to put it bluntly, in other words, that you should be able to be punished by prison every time, you have to understand, for a minimum of 14 days and a maximum of 3 years. There have been examples here from the Minister for Justice that what if you throw out a piece of paper or, as some have done, dwarf chickens? Are you going to prison for at least 14 days or up to 3 years? Where's the limit? And isn't that as violent as it is? We agree that when it comes to following Parliament's debates, it must be done in good order. This is where democracy unfolds, this is where we have the debates on legislation, and it is therefore of course important that everyone can keep up and that everyone has the opportunity to participate in it properly. That is what our democracy is all about, and that is why we cannot accept such statements in the Chamber. That is why there is legislation for it today too. So the Social Democrats cannot support this resolution. If there is a problem and a problem has been identified, I think it is a matter for the Bureau of Parliament to discuss whether there is a need for the framework of the speeches in the presence of Parliament's debates to be adjusted, but that is where we think the first debate should be, not with a proposal which in all respects will mean imprisonment for at least 14 days in order to throw out a paper plane from up here. I think people should stay away from that, but it might be enough for them to go to jail for 14 days. So social democracy cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419182703	There are no brief comments, and I can say as a service announcement that we have not debated this matter in recent times in the Bureau. Thank you, sir. Morten Bødskov, and welcome to Mr. Bødskov. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419182719	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. It is the case that when you are a smaller party, it can be difficult to be in many places at the same time. So that's what you suffer from in that situation. As far as the proposal here is concerned, the Danish People's Party will bring up the penalty for disturbing the Danish Parliament, and a minimum sentence of 14 days in prison will also be imposed. I shall not drag the debate much further than saying that I agree with the remarks made by the two previous speakers. We should not neglect the fact that this is a serious matter, that is to say to disturb the people's rule in these rooms. On the other hand, we may think that it is a little overkill to react now. Even for those of us who have our daily lives here, there is therefore a long way to go between the fact that we are experiencing protests of any kind or, at least, serious disturbances. In any case, a quick notice in the weekly journal for the Legal Service tells that there was a disturbance in 1976 that gave 20 daily tickets a DKK 100. to throw out some flyers and then stand and whistle a little, and in 2016 there was a disturbance, which I think most of us remember, where some started singing a very nice song by the way, I would say with noisy behavior and to inconvenience the work, no doubt about it. There have probably also been several other incidents, but these are the ones that have found their way to the printed media in this area. In short, of course, we support the idea, but we cannot support the proposal, both elements of the proposal, both the criminal framework and the minimum penalty.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419182916	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, and welcome to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419182923	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we very much agree with previous rapporteurs that it would be quite disproportionately to increase the penalty here from fine to prison. So this is a reason why we are opposed to this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party. Of course, we should not disturb the work of the Danish Parliament, and this is of course very serious, we agree entirely with the Danish People's Party, but it would be intolerable to penalise it in the way proposed in the motion for a resolution here. That's one thing. The second thing is that when you impose a minimum sentence of 14 days, you also remove the judgement of the judge, in relation to how he would have disturbed the work of the Folketing, and if the work of the Folketing has been disrupted in such a way that we are so high up in the penal framework, so that we should be sentenced to three years in prison, you would probably still be convicted under other provisions of the penal code, so there we think it is well covered up. So we are voting against this proposal from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419183039	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund and welcome to Mrs Christina Egelund from the Alternative... sorry, from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419183047	Now it's only Thursday night, so I guess this isn't where we switch parties like this. It is the case that the penalty for disturbing a legitimate public gathering under section 137 of the Criminal Code is fine or imprisonment up to 2 years. The concept of public gathering covers inter alia: The work of the Folketing. This paragraph of the penal code helps to protect the democratic rules on which our society is based, which is why it is of course neither in order nor lawful to interfere with the work of the Folketing. In the Liberal Alliance, we think that the current penalty framework is appropriate and that the punishment that the Danish People's Party is proposing here is a bit harsh. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance cannot support the Danish People's Party's proposal to introduce a minimum sentence of 14 days in prison to disrupt the work of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419183149	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance and welcome Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419183157	Thank you. We have to deal with the Danish People's Party's proposal to increase the penalties in order to get the work of the Danish Parliament under control to a minimum of 14 days in jail and a maximum of 3 years. After all, we fully agree that we should not disturb the parliamentary work. It could be nice if there were a little more in the gallery now, but hopefully they're out there enjoying the TV show. But having said that, it is serious, and it is, of course, totally unacceptable to disturb the work of the Danish Parliament. After all, we think that the penalty framework that exists today, with the possibility of two years in prison, is an appropriate framework for punishment. I also see that the Danish People's Party is proposing that the penalty be abolished altogether. We believe that this is a suitable framework for punishment today. It's true that you don't have to make fun of yourself up here from the platform, but I couldn't stop laughing about body-painted women anyway. Maybe you could... No, you can't have fun here. It is quite unacceptable to disturb Parliament's work, but we are not in favour of raising the penalty here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419183312	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. And welcome to Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419183319	It is, of course, unacceptable to disturb our meetings. It is also unacceptable to disturb education or the work of public servants, etc. etc. I take our democracy very seriously, but I think, when you look at the proposed penalty framework, that there should also be some proportionality. Well, of course we have to take ourselves seriously, but don't throw people 14 days in jail because they're sending a paper plane down. Perhaps you should instead have a ruffle of the President, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, but I think that would be quite all right, but not 14 days in prison. This is, moreover, a week in which the Danish People's Party has proposed that you should not be punished if you commit hetz against minorities or people because of race etc. etc. I therefore think that this is some lack of coherence and a lack of proportionality in that we want to protect ourselves. I think that is strange. We do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419183437	Thank you. And before the next one gets the floor, I would like to say that the practice of the Presidents is that we have a white button up here, and if there is unrest or something that is disturbing, we try to press the white button at first, and that means that the officers have two cops who are always ready to go on the audiences go up and see if they can handle the problem, and in nine out of ten cases they can. Because it can be disturbing that you sit and talk or get up or other things. And if it is necessary for a President to suspend the sitting, then a police matter will probably come out of it, because then the meeting has been disrupted in a way that had to be stopped. It is to tell you that we have a practical readiness, and we are, of course, discussing the practical things about this, but we have not discussed actual changes to the law. Here you go to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419183531	Thank you for that, President. It is in many ways quite fantastic to live in Denmark, and one of the good things about living here is that you have the right to express yourself; it is that you have the right to make us aware of when we make mistakes or when you think we are doing something that is wrong. You can write a letter you can write on Facebook, on Twitter, you can call a journalist, and you can arrange a demonstration. You have every opportunity in the world to call out the politicians of this country. But I also think that there should be a limit to what can be done to disrupt the work of the Danish Parliament if there is something that one disagrees with. I do not think it is acceptable to throw down dwarfs or to set up banners if there is any specific legislative proposal that would oppose them. There we have to use the opportunities that democracy otherwise offers us, but that does not include an opportunity to disrupt the work that is going on here. So I don't think it's fair if some people use the Parliament Hall as some platform to manifest or spread an opinion on a case, because Denmark is probably the country in the world that offers most platforms where you can come out with your opinions. I should like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteurs and to the Minister for Justice for the comments that have been made. I can see that there is no majority in favour of our proposal. In any case, I think it is important that we continue to discuss the framework for how we deal with our democracy and also the right to speak, but that does not mean that we have the right to throw dwarfs or anything else in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419183702	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That is not the case, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419183725	The debate is open and we welcome the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419183740	Thank you. The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party states that in future burglars must be required to pay for the damage they cause during forced entry, including the obligation to pay for subsequent theft protection at the place where the burglar has obtained access to the accommodation. The proposed sanctions, according to the proposers, must apply alongside the general criminal sanctions. Intruder crime is a serious crime which robs ordinary people of the security and security that is and must be connected to the home. One is very much affected by being exposed to theft in one's own home and can be left with a fear that is hard to escape again. There should be no doubt that the government is seriously looking at burglar crime, and that is why we also tabled last year a legislative proposal for a new and autonomous provision in the criminal law on burglary. It was adopted by the Danish Parliament in December last year. With an independent burglary clause in the penal code, we mark the seriousness of the crime and at the same time send a clear signal that burglary differs from other forms of theft such as simple pickpocket, bicycle theft or the like. At the same time, we increased the penalty by a third for burglary committed while the residents were at home. Breaking into private homes is also a priority area for the police. Against this background, the National Police have launched a multi-annual national operational strategy on the fight against forced entry into private homes. Among other things, the police must: ensure a more intelligence and analysis-based approach to combating burglar crime and increased technological support in its investigation. In addition, in 2017, two special investigation communities, Special Investigation East and West, were established in order to strengthen the fight against organised burglary crime in particular. At the same time, we have seen a clear drop in the number of reports of private burglary in recent years. In 2016, the number of private residential burglary reviews was at the lowest level since 2007, and the positive trend appears to continue. However, the falling number of notifications does not mean that we should in any way let go of burglars. Therefore, it is also my expectation that the police will maintain and continuously adapt their efforts to break-in, so that it is precisely not worth the risk to the burglars. Let me now turn to the motion for a resolution and the part about imposing on a burglar the obligation to pay for repairing the damage caused by the thief during the break-in. As the rules for compensation are today, you can be required to pay compensation for damage caused to other people or their property if the damage has been done intentionally or by irresponsible conduct. This also applies, of course, to the burglar who breaks a window in order to gain access to a home. A homeowner who has been burglarized will most often go to his insurance company and recover the damage caused by the break-in. As the rules are today, however, the injured thief is liable for damages, even if the damage is covered by a thing insurance, for example. a residence insurance if the damage has been caused intentionally or by grossly irresponsible conduct. There is hardly any doubt that a thief who causes injury during a break-in could be said to have shown at least grossly irresponsible behaviour. The insurance company, which has often covered the damage in the first place, can therefore direct the claim further to the burglar. And that can be done, for example. in the course of criminal proceedings against the person concerned. The owner of the dwelling or his insurance undertaking, if the company has covered the damage, may then request that the claim be dealt with in the context of the criminal proceedings. The owner of the home or his insurance company thus avoids the inconvenience of having to bring civil proceedings himself. So we already have rules that require burglars to pay compensation for the financial loss that is suffered. Then I will turn to the part of the proposal which deals with payment for subsequent burglary protection. The motion for a resolution must be understood to mean that burglars are subject to an extra penalty or compensation which goes beyond the financial loss that is suffered, and we cannot support that. I understand the proposal in such a way that it is proposed that the place where the thief has broken in should only be burglarized, for example. a cellar door, not the home as a whole. It is doubtful whether this type of burglar protection will have an effective preventive effect. However, such a limited burglary of a single window or door can hardly in practice prevent new burglars from entering another place in the home where no security has yet been provided. Then the government also takes the view that we want to maintain the starting point of Danish law, i.e. that compensation can only be granted if there is an actual financial loss and not as here, where it is actually an additional penalty or an over-compensation, or how to supplement it now. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419184240	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments from the authors, and in the first place it is from Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party. Karina Due I have not asked for the floor). Then we'll take sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419184255	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. Some time ago, no, some time ago, the government launched a burglary package that has gone through in the Folketing, and I want to know if the government is planning to take new initiatives in this area. In view of how much the burglary package and the initiatives that were in it were, it is, I think, a little thin, but it is also at a time when the number of break-ins is decreasing, and it is of course nice, but we still have a wish to take action against it. So if you reject this, I want to hear from the Minister whether there is any news from the government about this, that is to say about burglary, and how you intend to deal with these matters in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419184340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419184341	We have nothing on the wall right now for the reason that it was adopted in December, and now we are in April. So we'd like to see it work first. But it is clear that we are constantly following it, and if things do not work as intended, I shall not be the one to hold me back looking at new initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419184358	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister for today's work, at least this time. And we welcome Mr. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419184412	Thank you for that, President. The proposal we are debating here is, of course, one of the things we are dealing with. on post-burglary payments, and the Minister of Justice has again explained very well the contents of it. There is no doubt that if you are burglarized, it is of course deeply offensive. It is not only to have your home ravaged and stolen its valuable items, which are often objects that have a great affection value, but as a victim you also feel offended. And I think that when you've tried it and you open the drawer and you see that now there's something more that's gone, you're reminded of how insulting a break-in actually is. Therefore, there is a need to constantly focus on what we can do to ensure that the number of break-ins falls and that the investigation is as effective as possible. What's the target for breaking and entering? The position of the Social Democratic Party is very clear: a break-in is too much. But the question is whether the content of this motion for a resolution is right. We have taken a number of steps across the change of government; the current government has done so; the previous government has done so. And here comes a proposal to introduce a supplementary sentence imposing a financial penalty on the perpetrator, which involves a charge for, for example, a new and better secured door to the victim. One can say that it must then be part of the answer to how the perpetrator does not commit forced entry again. I'm not quite sure that's the case, not least when you look at who's breaking and entering. Then it's rare for these people to just make a break-in and then think better about the next time they break in. That's why maybe we should try looking somewhere else. And the reality is that, although we see a decrease in the number of burglars and it is very pleasing, and I think this is largely due to the very many initiatives we have taken and the police's excellent work with it • there are other countries that are very similar to us who have a much lower burglar rate. It is a discussion that we have had before, but it is of course a question of whether you can make demands on housing security. This is done in other countries, and the result is very, very clear that the number of break-ins is much lower than in Denmark. As I said, we have discussed this many times. I think, and we in the Social Democratic Party think, that we should have a new discussion about it. I am quite sure that this does not necessarily mean that homeowners will face heavy bills and higher prices for windows and doors and other things. I am quite sure that if you have a constructive dialogue, for example with insurance companies, that is something they will take seriously. And then we can have a dialogue along those lines. But the reality is that I think this is the type of initiative we are about to discuss if we are to have the number of break-ins seriously reduced dramatically. And that is what is needed. Because we have, in broad agreement, tightened the penalty and we have established an independent burglary clause, and that is why it is also the Social Democrats who believe that we would very much like to see more initiatives in this direction. But I also think it is important that we bear in mind that, although we have adopted many amendments, we are still at a high level and we need to look at how we can strengthen the prevention of forced entry. And there is a crucial answer to the question of housing security. In those words, the Social Democratic Party agrees that we must look at what we can do to bring down the number of break-ins; a break-in is too much. But the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419184752	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419184754	In fact, I think that the rapporteur, particularly at the end of the rapporteur's speech, is talking about something that is exciting and that is about burglary protection. This is something that we have discussed during this parliamentary term, and it ended up with the proposal on burglary protection being voted down. That is also why I thought that the Social Democratic Party should be anxious to adopt this particular proposal, because it opens up the possibility of having it tested under Danish conditions. You can even get some criminals to pay for it, and the best ones to find out where it is easiest to break into a house must be those who have the experience of it. So, in principle, I cannot understand why the Social Democrats do not strike and say that this is an obvious opportunity for the Social Democrats to try to see whether the policy that has been proposed in Parliament itself has a real effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419184842	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20180419184844	We doubt that this proposal will have. If you look at who is burglarying, I also doubt that it will have a tremendous preventive effect if they are once allowed to pay for a new lock or front door. I'm afraid I don't really believe that. What I think could have a great effect was if you could secure that door, so it took longer for them to get in. This is what we have seen has given the great results on burglary statistics in other countries. I think we should try to discuss this again. If what the Danish People's Party says is that you are ready to look at it, I think it is very serious and serious that we can bring down the number of break-ins.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419184928	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur's report. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419184944	I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party; for a small party it is not easy to be all the places where something is going on here in the house. The proposal concerns various aspects of forced entry, and I must admit immediately that breaking and entering is not something we can neglect in Denmark. As I recall, we are in second place right after Greece in the relative number of break-ins in Europe. It is a boring location, and one cannot fail to wonder what it is that can cause Eastern European gangs to travel quite far and through wealthy Germany to come to Denmark. That might indicate that we should perhaps do something about breaking and entering, and so does the government. As the Minister for Justice has mentioned, there will be a special burglary package and the consequences thereof, but I shall not go into that in more detail here. After all, the proposal here involves two aspects. This means, firstly, that, in addition to criminal sanctions, burglars must be required to pay for the damage they have caused during the break-in and the necessary housing security. I have to say in this connection that we have a system here in Denmark that says that when a burglar is convicted, he gets his sentence. Not only will he get the penalty, but in nine out of ten cases there will be, in addition to the sentence, the civil claim, that is, what he has to pay. It is clear from the Code of Procedure that that claim can be settled in the course of the proceedings and, of course, it will be settled in these situations. But that one then has to pay more than the loss suffered by the owner of the house, that is to say, on the one hand, one gets the penalty and, on the other hand, one has to pay the loss, for example in the form of a burglary guarantee of the house, at least contrary to the usual principles of compensation and criminal law that we have here in Denmark. I would have no objection to the fine being higher if it is a fine that is charged or the penalty was higher, but then we should call it what it is. We cannot in such a way conjure a loss, which is claimed by the law of damages, to suddenly become even greater. In any case, it would be contrary to the customary right of compensation here in the Kingdom. Now I don't think we need to get gray hair in our heads over this problem in relation to the loss and the thief's obligation to replace and the thief's obligation to pay for extra security of the dwelling. I don't think one in a thousand thieves paid. At least that's my loose guess. Unfortunately, most people are from abroad, and there I think it is quite impossible to get through with any demands, and as far as Danes who break into Denmark are concerned, I cannot imagine that there is anything to come for. So, on this basis, I have to say that the Left unfortunately cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419185310	That was clear and clear speech, which did not lead to any questions. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419185318	Thank you. In a sense, I understand that this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party speaks to the sense of justice. When you have had a break-in, I understand that, like to satisfy your sense of justice, you want to impose even more punishment on a burglar. I'm just not sure it'll help. Sir. Morten Bødskov also mentioned it. This isn't going to work preventively, I guess. That's one thing. The second thing is that a burglar will already be punished, and from there it is a question of resocialising the burglar so that it does not happen again. I think this proposal will make it harder because if the burglar has been punished or has been imprisoned, he will have lost some income and had difficulty earning money. And if you impose an additional debt on this burglar, it will be harder to rehabilitate him. Furthermore, we believe that this proposal does not, moreover, comply with the general principles of criminal law and liability law, so we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419185448	No one wanted short remarks. We thank Mrs Rosa Lund and move on to Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419185501	Thank you very much. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not believe that the Danish People's Party's proposal to impose on the burglar to pay for burglar protection is the right way to go. We believe that there are far more effective and meaningful ways of dealing with burglar crime. In the Liberal Alliance, for example, we welcome the government's initiative against breaking into people's private homes, which was launched a year ago. There are many good elements in the game, for example. the inclusion of a separate article in the criminal code, which deals with burglar crime, just as we decided to tighten the penalty for breaking and entering while someone is at home by a third. In the Liberal Alliance, we also attach ourselves to the published strategy of the National Police on breaking and entering private homes. This strategy describes how to work targetedly for a reduced number of break-ins in private homes, clear more break-ins and strengthen efforts against the heels. The government is making a great effort to combat and reduce burglar crime, and in the Liberal Alliance we cannot therefore support the Danish People's Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419185616	There are no brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419185624	Thank you. We will be discussing the Danish People's Party's motion for a parliamentary resolution on payment after break-in. The Danish People's Party wants to impose on the burglar, in addition to the criminal sanctions, also to pay for the repair of the damage caused during the break-in and then to pay for the necessary housing security. It is the case today that when a burglar is convicted, he may be liable, and that means he must pay compensation for the damage he has caused. So I find that part of the motion for a resolution rather difficult to understand. Then there is the second part of the resolution which is about the burglar having to pay subsequently for the necessary housing security, and that may be an appealing proposal. One could then say that it is at least an extra form of punishment that is imposed on the person concerned. Now I have delved a little into how much the state really gets home from, for example. The cost of the case when you sue a burglar, and I can say that it is a third of the debt that the state does not get home, and I think I see this kind of as such a blow in the air. 'Cause I think you pick hair off a bald, if you say so. So, I think it will be difficult to find the money from the people in question to pay for a subsequent burglary protection of the place they have been. Having said that, I would say that it does not necessarily have to stop you from trying it, but we do not believe in the alternative that it is the right way to go in this way. Rather, we believe in what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur also mentioned, in other words the very direct action of the National Police at the moment against burglars, and how we strengthen it, and the fact that people secure their homes through new construction and conversion in relation to securing windows and doors, etc. But there is no doubt that it is really unpleasant to have a break-in in your home. I think all those who have tried it, or know someone who has tried it, know that. So in this way it is a positive proposal, but unfortunately the alternative cannot back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419185853	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419185901	Thank you. Of course, you have to replace things you've ruined, whether it's a door or a vase after you've broken into, and it's solved. Unfortunately, there are a lot of break-ins that are not solved, but the suggestion that you should also contribute with an alarm system of the house or a completely new type of door, I think is both a break with the way we usually handle these cases, but it may also be very difficult to manage and perhaps not quite fair either. It is not, of course, because burglary can be justified in any way whatsoever, but that is also why you are asked both to provide compensation, but, as a rule, you also get a sentence of liberty. That is, of course, quite fair, but that we also suddenly have to stand up for the installation of an alarm system and the creation of special doors, we cannot see for ourselves, nor do we think it is entirely reasonable, without defending burglars at all. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190013	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and, as I see no rapporteur from the SF, we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190023	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for the comments and the same to the Minister. Mrs. Zenia Stampe said quite well: this was a new course if you wanted to do this, to punish burglars harder. I also think that for some of the parties in the Parliamentary Chamber this should be an exciting course, because this would mean that the path that some parties would like to take in terms of burglary protection could be tested gradually and see if it had the desired effect, as there are regular discussions in the Parliamentary Chamber about it. There is no doubt that it is incredibly cross-border to have a break-in, especially if you are at home, especially if your things are ravaged, destroyed and there may be very personal things going through. There is no doubt that this is something that really puts itself hard on people, and therefore it was also pleasing when the government launched its burglar pack earlier in this assembly to ensure that these burglars are hit harder. But I must also say that I do not necessarily believe that what was decided in the burglary package was enough. I think it is important that we keep searching it and going new ways to ensure that burglars are simply hit hard, and this was our proposal for something you could do if you wanted to go a new way. There seems to be no majority for that in the Folketing. It is true that we have tightened the penalty. The focus has been on the heels and on how the police should ensure that the clearing rate is pressed up, and these are all fine initiatives. There is a discussion about security, as Mr. Morten Bødskov left. It may be a discussion that we have to take again at some point. We will be happy with this, especially if the Social Democrats have some new figures in this area which might give a new angle in this discussion. However, there is no doubt that in our view the best means of combating forced entry will be a significantly stronger border control. If we look historically at the number of break-ins over the last 20 years, then we see an explosion in the number of break-ins after a number of Eastern countries have been included in Schengen. So it creates a wave where you have reached the top and where you can see that the number has started to fall again, and that is of course pleasing. But there is no doubt that eastward enlargement has created massive problems in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190308	There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190316	Well, that's about the last comment on border controls, so I just want to ask if Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen is aware that the number of break-ins actually increased when the government introduced border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190329	If you look back and in a longer perspective you go back 20 years and look at when the break-ins have happened, how many break-ins there are per. It can be seen that in the year of the integration of a number of Eastern European countries into the European Union, the number of break-ins will explode. That can only be explained by it. Then it is true that there are shifts from one year to the next, but the overall trend is that when these countries are included in Schengen, there is an explosion in the number; then there may be fluctuations from year to year, which may be very slight, but 20 years ago, that is the very clear trend. I don't think there can be any doubt about that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190407	Mrs Zenia Stampe to her second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190411	Yes, and at the same time we know that what really works in terms of reducing the number of break-ins is the risk of clarification. It is clear that the detection risk will be a little less when the police stand and welcome people when they come across the border, where instead they should pursue them the 50 km up in Jutland and intervene in breaking and entering or having to spend their time investigating the break-ins. It is also a consequence of border controls that the police do not have time to solve and investigate these cases, and that is among other things. what makes it attractive to break into Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190453	This is completely wrong. Now we do both. There are still these backland patrols to which Mrs Zenia Stampe refers. There is tighter control compared to what was before, and then we are in the process of a major strengthening of the Danish Police. And I'm just asking, what happened when Mrs. Zenia Stampe and her friends were in power in this country? The number of police officers was cut, a totally catastrophic decision was taken, totally disastrous. We have a desire to go in the very opposite direction, because we want there to be police officers enough to take care of our borders, to take care of break-ins, but also enough to take care of a lot of other things, because of course Denmark must be a safe country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190530	No one else has wanted short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. As far as I can see, no one else wishes to speak, and since that is the case, the debate has ended. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190552	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 24 April 2018. I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question for a explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190630	Thank you. There is no doubt that the fight against animal welfare violations and animal welfare is a very big concern for the Danish People's Party, and that is why we are following it on a regular basis. We have had consultations, we have had various conversations about these animal welfare violations, and we think it is very important that we continue to discuss it, because although much has been done, we are not in the end. So I look forward to the debate and thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190717	Then we can see if there is anything to be thanked for, as long as it is now the Minister of Justice who is being given the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190722	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for putting this question. I fully agree with Mrs Karina Due and we have discussed it several times in different forums. I think it is very, very good that we have the opportunity here in the Danish Parliament to discuss the efforts of the police in the field of animal welfare. There should be no doubt that the government rejects all forms of animal cruelty. It is therefore important that there is a constant focus in this area. In connection with the multiannual agreement on the police and prosecution economy from 2016 to 2019, a working group was set up to look at police action against animal welfare violations. The report of the Working Group was sent to the Conciliation Committee on 4 November 2016. The working group's report contains 11 recommendations for strengthening animal welfare, including: requirements for clear management anchoring of animal protection cases in police circles, setting up a national animal network, clear guidelines for the handling of cases in the police force and increased focus on education. The 2017 Finance Law Agreement states that the recommendations of the Working Group are to be implemented. All recommended initiatives have been implemented, with the exception of one initiative relating to the interface between the police and the mission of private animal welfare organisations, and this initiative has established a good dialogue between the National Police and animal welfare organisations. A number of good measures have been taken in this area, but, as I said at the outset, it is of course important that there is a constant focus in this area, so that we ensure a uniform and correct handling of matters and a well-established cooperation between police circles. Once again, thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting the question on the agenda. I look forward to the debate and further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190919	Then we came to the debate. And first of all, Mrs Karina Due, the rapporteur for the questioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419190926	Thank you. We hear animal protection associations tell about police circles where cooperation works well and where the police are quickly promoted when associations contact them for help. Unfortunately, there are just too many places where the police do not give sufficient priority to animal welfare cases and where they hesitate to remove the animals from the owners, even if there is gross neglect. We need to make that right. We have already allocated more resources to the area in recent years, but we are not in the end at all. Animal protection units must be strengthened in the police so that we can effectively put an end to animal abusers, illegal puppie importers and puppy factories. We want a clear guarantee that animals will be treated in a uniform manner, for example. can't speculate about moving puppy factories around between the different police circles. We want animal protection work to be so firmly anchored in the police that you can always get through to a dedicated employee in all police circles who can solve the matter, whether it is a cat, a dog, a pig or a horse that is subject to neglect. We need a dedicated and specialised animal protection unit in all police circles with people who possess the human and professional skills that make them fit to work with animal welfare. And then there must be resources for the police to investigate animal welfare cases so that we can detect many more neglects in the bud and more quickly remove the animals from the owners. Animal protection work differs in many ways from ordinary police work, and it is therefore common sense that we bring together knowledge and competence in one small department to call it animal police or call it an animal protection unit, dear child has many names. But this also means that special training should be provided for those who are going to work in these animal protection units. In other words, we are talking not just about a few days of training but about real training of a certain duration. We would like the police to continue to cooperate with the animal protection associations. The associations can follow up cases in advance when they receive a notification and assess in which cases the police are required to intervene. Fortunately, it is often the case that the owner himself agrees to hand over the animals voluntarily to the associations after a good dialogue, thus saving us the resources of the police. Although we have made it easier on the political side to deny persons the right to deal with animals, it seems that, in practice, that law is not often applied. In addition, we also hear of cases in which the owner circumvents the order by formally transferring his animals to the nearest family, which means that the animals are not really out of the hands of the convicted person, even though he is denied the right to deal with animals. And that should be tightened up. Norway and Sweden have already introduced animal police in several districts and experience is positive. Not only has it made efforts in animal protection cases more effective, but the animal police have actually also helped to clarify other criminal matters among the reported ones. The police have found that those who have violent behavior towards animals often also have violent behavior towards people and especially their partners and children. There was a similar connection, as one could see in the United States, where a 4-year study from the Chicago police showed that 65%. of the inmates who had been convicted of animal cruelty were, in fact, also accused of crimes against human beings. So, although an animal police and animal welfare units are primarily to help animals, I would be delighted if it could also help solve cases of child abuse or domestic violence. That is why I think it is wrong to regard an animal police as an expression of the fact that animals would rather be helped than people in need. It's not a question of either or. It is just a fact that when we make society safe for animals, we also make it more safe for people. One final point is the far too long duration of proceedings in animal welfare cases. From an animal protection case notified to a judgment, the average processing time was over 500 days in both 2014, 2015 and 2016. We can and must do this faster. And then we must ensure that animals are more often taken from the owners at the time of the case and that people are immediately deprived of the right to deal with animals. Otherwise, you can just continue for a very long time while the matter is on, even if you are reported for the neglect of your animals. And those things are just not right. I am therefore very pleased that the Danish People's Party, together with the government and, as I understand it, several other parties are backing it has reached a proposal for adoption. I would like to read this out now: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament rejects all forms of cruelty and cruelty to animals and considers it important that there is a constant focus on the fact that the police have the necessary powers to deal with cases of animal welfare violations. In this regard, the Danish Parliament notes that, in the framework of the multiannual agreement on the police and prosecution economy for 2016-2019, a working group was set up on police action against animal welfare violations, which has made 11 recommendations for strengthening animal welfare, among others. requirements for clear management anchoring of animal protection cases in police circles, establishment of animal networks and increased focus on training. Ten of the 11 recommended initiatives have been implemented and work on the last initiative is in progress. Parliament therefore notes that a number of initiatives have been taken to strengthen the area. The Danish Parliament also notes the need for a strengthened and more uniform procedure by the various police circles, as well as a well-established cooperation between police circles. • V 51).
ParlaMint-DK_20180419191614	I would just like to ask the rapporteur to clarify which parties are behind the proposal for adoption. Karina Due It does Dansk Folkeparti and the government). The Danish People's Party, the Left, the Conservatives and the Liberal Alliance do. Good. Thank you. The proposal for adoption read out will be included in the further negotiations. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419191641	Thank you. As you know, social democracy sees welfare as a core task, and animal welfare is also a task that we take very seriously. We are proud of our Danish agriculture, but it also requires a responsibility, a responsibility to ensure that the animals are in the best position to do so. And animals do not have a voice like us, and therefore they do not have the opportunity to say either way, and therefore it is important that we take responsibility and take care of them as well. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that it is quite decent for us to ensure that animals are well and that we also ensure that they are treated with respect and with proper care. We will not accept that people treat animals as they please, and that is why it is, of course, a political responsibility that the police have both the right knowledge and the tools and resources to investigate and prosecute people who either commit or are suspected of animal cruelty. Some may recall that back in 2015 the Social Democratic Party presented a major project on animal welfare. In the playout we wanted, among other things. to create a special unit under the National Police to strengthen and coordinate police action in cases of animal abuse, and in addition, we proposed raising the penalty in animal protection cases and also the possibility of simply denying persons the right to deal with animals. In other words, we have acted on the responsibility for animal welfare. This is not a new position for the Social Democratic Party, and that is why a unanimous Parliament has, after all, passed laws on punishment in this area in the past. Of course, punishment cannot stand here alone. The police need to get dressed to handle these things that may be difficult, but they exist. That is why the police must have the right knowledge and tools for their work. At the same time, I would also like to take this opportunity to add that the police have a great many tasks, which is why it is also important that we find a solution that does not require massively new police resources. It's a political task to make sure that there's a focus on this area all the time. In the Social Democratic Party we agree that it is important that we ensure the best possible protection against animal abuse, both when it comes to animals in agriculture, animals in the home and also animals in the entertainment industry. Animals are valuable to us, but of course they also have value in themselves, which is why we must take that responsibility very seriously and ensure that we treat our animals properly and with dignity and respect. We are happy to accept that responsibility, including for the welfare of animals. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party agrees with many of the points made by the rapporteur for the questioners from up here, and I must say that the proposal for adoption, which was read out, also supports the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419191935	It does not appear that some people have brief comments on it, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419191949	Thank you. We in the Left also support the joint motion for a resolution which was read out by Mrs Karina Due from the Danish People's Party. And I'd like to say hello to you, sir. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party, who unfortunately cannot be present, and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the joint motion for a resolution. And I am pleased that the Social Democrats have announced right now that they can support it as well. Good animal welfare is important. I think we all agree on that, and we are also very concerned about it. History also shows this, as the previous rapporteur pointed out, in other words, that, on previous occasions, the penal part of the proposal has been tightened up. I am sure that we are all concerned that we will have to combat any cases of animal cruelty and the neglect of animals. It is simply unacceptable that this should take place. That is why it is also an important issue raised by the Danish People's Party, which also gives us a good opportunity to take stock of the area in this debate, and that gives us the opportunity to look at it as a whole. We have a high standard of animal welfare in Denmark, and the vast majority treat their animals as they should. This applies to both professionals and also to anyone else who holds animals, either as a hobby or as a pet. Unfortunately, however, there are sometimes some stumbled vessels that can't really figure it out if you can put it that way. Unfortunately, we have also been able to read about this in the press sometimes, where there have been cases of animal neglect and neglect. This must, of course, be dealt with harshly so that those responsible do not get away with it. It has to have consequences if you can't figure it out. We are therefore pleased that the police have worked and continue to work very seriously in the area. And in connection with the agreement on the police and prosecution economy for the period 2016-19, it was agreed, as has already been mentioned in the debate, to set up a working group aimed at making proposals on how the area could be strengthened. The work has also become more than just recommendations. In fact, a great deal has actually been put into practice, as has also been the case in the debate, and it is good for the ambition to become even sharper in this area. For example, there has been work on a more clear anchoring in relation to where animal protection cases belong in the individual police circles and, at the same time, there has also been increased training in the area, so that the police have the power to deal with matters. But that is what needs to be worked on so that we can go further with it so that it can also be tackled, and that is what is being proposed in the joint motion for a resolution that has been read out. The conclusion is therefore that this is an area which is of great concern to all of us, and it is also our view that the police take this very seriously. This is important, since we are all interested in avoiding these unpleasant cases of animals being mistreated or abused and, if this happens, of course, it is being struck down. I have already indicated that both the Left and the Conservatives support the joint proposal for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419192326	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. And we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419192338	I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for once again raising this important matter. Two years ago, the hundredth anniversary of Denmark's first Animal Protection Act was celebrated, at the same time as among others. The penalty for animal cruelty was lifted. That was a positive step forward. And the Minister's latest measures with further control, such as: Similarly, the smiley system of dog farmers to stem illegal dog farmers is positive. However, in the Enhedslisten we believe that this is far from sufficient to eliminate the many serious cases of cruelty and reckless treatment of animals. We have seen scandals with pictures from puppie factories of puppies found covered in their own feces, or dogs that are completely dried up after having been washed with spirit several times a day. At the same time, we hear feedback from animal welfare organisations following these cases closely that animal protection cases are very, very low priority among police and prosecutors. Too many cases are either rejected altogether or referred to the Animal Watch Centre. And if the police take on a case, the case is usually investigated minimally, and the length of the proceedings is often very long. So the problem is not solved with a higher penalty framework in these cases. Because the problem is, among other things, the problem. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is only in very serious cases that people are denied the right to have animals. That is why it is also necessary that the possibilities offered by the Animal Protection Act should be used much more frequently, both in the case of charges, penalties, prison sentences and as a crucial opportunity to deny persons the possibility of keeping animals. Another important step towards effective intervention in animal welfare cases is, as we see in the Enhedslisten, that some animal protection units are being set up under the police force.This kind of animal police force may have a special focus on animal protection cases, precisely because such cases are often under-priority. The many cases of animal neglect show that we need a reorganisation of the area to bring together police officers who are trained to handle and investigate these animal neglect cases in special animal protection units so that both searching and investigating matters can slip better. The aim must be for us to have an animal protection police, who are experts in animal protection cases and who have the resources to investigate matters so that action is taken before it goes wrong. To get a little bit out of the steppes in this area, you might be able to start an experiment with an animal police force over a few years to find the right form of how this is to be combined, so that we have an effective priority in this area. Once again, thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419192639	There is, in fact, one request for a brief comment from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419192649	Thank you for that, and thank you for one, I think, very positive speech by the rapporteur with many good elements. I have a question for the rapporteur, because Mrs Rosa Lund specifically mentions this about taking the right to keep animals from people who cannot handle it. It is our impression in the Danish People's Party that it is too little to use it, that there are too many cases where you do not get put in place and prevent the same people from neglecting animals again, even though the authorities are actually aware of it. So I would like to hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether, firstly, the Enhedslisten recognises that there is a problem here and, secondly, will help to tighten the course in this area so that we ensure that people who neglect animals will never be responsible for animals again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419192728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419192731	This is a matter which I have taken over from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, who, as you know, is doing something else today, so I must be Mr. Simpson. Peter Kofod Poulsen answer guilty of how we're gonna deal with this. But we certainly recognise that there is a problem, but on the question of how exactly it should be dealt with, I must regret and return to the Danish People's Party when I have just turned it around.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419192755	Then there are no further questions for the rapporteur, and we thank him. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419192802	Thank you very much. All of us who are here today can agree that it is terrible to hear stories of systematic neglect, for example. dogs and similar stories that have been promoted in the media over the last few years. It is thought-provoking that there are such animal welfare violations in Denmark. They are really just helping to confirm the relevance of the subject. However, in the Liberal Alliance, we welcome the results of the working group set up as part of the 2016 police agreement. On the basis of the recommendations of the Working Group, a number of measures have since been taken to ensure uniform guidelines for the treatment of animal protection cases across the country's police circles. In addition, the National Police have established a national animal network to ensure a national overview and coordination of action in this area. We also welcome the amendment of the Animal Protection Act of 7 December 2017, which includes the following: introduced the so-called smiley scheme for dog kennels and dog pensions. In this way, better control of the welfare of dogs has been ensured on kennels and pensions, which will help to detect and prevent neglect. In conclusion, I would like to say that animal welfare is an issue which has a good and great political interest, not least on the part of the Danish People's Party, and that, of course, must also be forward-looking. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419192940	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419192944	Thank you. The question I would like to put to the rapporteur is, in fact, a little in line with what I put to Mrs Lund. Because what I want to hear about the Liberal Alliance is that in some of these cases, where people are denied the right to keep animals, it happens, for example. For two years or three years, and I do not necessarily see what happens if you really neglect some animals, and then you are denied the right to keep animals for two years. Then it takes a few years, and then the same person can buy animals again, and then the mill can start over. That is a terrible thing for animals, but it is also a disgrace, because then it can be said that it is also something that the police have to deal with and that the veterinary authorities have to deal with, and the protection of animals is perhaps also at stake, so it is a great deal that is being set in motion. Then you could work to say that if someone is not allowed to keep animals, they can't keep animals? Then it's not about 2 years or 3 years or anything else, so it's just too bad, and then you have to learn to look after your animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419193039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419193043	That must also be the case, I am sorry, I do not know whether the questioner heard what I said first, otherwise I can repeat as the President says, and that is also true. I think that sounds like a reasonable and logical consideration that the questioner makes. It must then also be the case that there is some individual assessment on a case-by-case basis. Of course, there are also differences in the severity of animal welfare violations, but it is clear that, in cases of very, very serious animal abuse, it might well be logical to look at whether it should then have a more stringent consequence than it has today, including the considerations put into it by the questioner, namely all the costs which it has for many bodies, every time one has to deal with such a matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419193134	Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419193136	One of the things that has bothered us has been that animals are regarded as things rather than living beings, and we think this is kind of weird. We believe that animals should be recognised as what they are, which, of course, has an enormous importance and weight for the people who care about them. Will the Liberal Alliance help change that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419193157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419193159	I am not necessarily fully aware of the legal consequences of my answer to that question, because it is true, in law today, that animals have a different protection from things. So in this sense, I do not know whether there is a need to define things differently than they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419193224	No one else has asked to speak, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419193232	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for focusing on animal welfare and the violations that unfortunately take place against animals. I think it is important to remember in this debate that we are talking about all kinds of animals. We are talking about both the animals that are housed, i.e. farm animals, chickens, chickens, pigs, cows, etc., and also the livestock that we other have at home or something like I have at home. Cats, dogs, etc. I am here with the answer to Question 700 given by the Minister for Justice and I must say that this is not a subject I have dealt with in this way, but I have had the pleasure of being rapporteur in this area today, and that is why I have tried to get into it a little. And I have to say that there are a lot of reviews in this area. In the answer to question 700, the Minister of Justice states that there were 647 reviews in 2014, in 2015 there were 678 reviews, and in 2016 there are 690 reviews. When it comes to judgments, there are far fewer, and this suggests that in some way there is a sluggishness in the system in terms of either having the investigation investigated or also being able to establish the burden of proof in order to be able to carry out a case. That is, of course, problematic. That is why I am also looking forward to seeing the results of the initiatives that have been launched, as has also been mentioned by the previous rapporteurs, in terms of strengthening efforts in this area, because this is clearly an important area. In my introduction, I say that it is important to remember that these are all animals, which is why I would like to call on you, among others. Danish People's Party to also work something more with ecology. We know that we have approx. Twenty-five million pigs, even more millions of chickens and thousands of cattle, and we know there that organic farming also leads to better animal welfare. I think that is a very important debate to take in this context too. The alternative, even in our nature package proposal, which came two years ago, has suggested that, and now I quote, all police circles should have a special nature and environmental prosecutor and police officers with specific competences in the field of nature and environmental crime, such as the one we are discussing today. is known from Norway and Sweden, and is now found in the police unit of Central and West Jutland. It is, of course, the same thinking when it comes to saying that there must be some who also focus on animal welfare. So we definitely support that part. So I would say that I am very pleased with the debate. I am also very pleased with the measures that have been taken. This is something that we, together with the Danish People's Party, want to keep a great deal of eye on, because there are a lot of reviews, and you can see that it is a small number that will be brought to judgment. We have to change that. It must be taken seriously to have animals, regardless of whether they are private livestock or for agricultural purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419193607	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419193609	Thank you. I think it is positive that the rapporteur mentions specific ecology, and the Danish People's Party has been involved in trying to see whether it would be possible to make it more profitable to have this production in Denmark. And if you can create a bigger market for it, that's fine, that's really, really good. But what I would then like to ask the rapporteur is that when I normally hear the alternative voice, there is a lot of talk about what we can do preventively, in other words before these situations arise where people report to the police because they think it is necessary and before we like to see all these terrible cases. And I was wondering if the alternative has any suggestion as to what could be done preventively. Could it be that more information is needed for people to get better into things before they end up with an animal they may not be able to care for or will not care for or neglect, simply because they are ill-informed? Could the rapporteur make a proposal here, or did he alternative a policy in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419193708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419193711	As I said, I am not the normally rapporteur in this area, but there must certainly be more information. And then I think that this is something we really want to work with the Danish People's Party on, because I also know that this is an area with which the Danish People's Party is very much involved, and I am therefore absolutely convinced that we can learn from the massive work that the Danish People's Party has done in this area. I personally, but also we as a party, believe that this is an important area. So all good ideas, including those of the Danish People's Party, I and the party will respond with open arms.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419193748	There are no further requests for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419193755	Thank you. This is an important area. As our former chairman of the party said at a group meeting, from which I should otherwise not be allowed to refer, but I think she can stand by this: people must take responsibility when they buy animals to treat them properly. I fully agree with that, and I think we all agree with that. That is why I also agree that this is a task which must be taken seriously by the police. That reservation or what to call it I have is that I know the police are already under a lot of pressure. And when some police circles do not give priority to this, this does not necessarily mean that they do not respect animal welfare, but that they are under pressure in other areas. So, we know, and it is not to bring in border controls, but of course we have been very concerned that information has been obtained from police circles saying that they must downgrade rather fundamental areas, i.e. burglar crime, drug crime, juvenile delinquency, crime prevention and perhaps animal welfare. That is why, of course, I think we should look at how the task is done in the various police circles and compare it, but I am not there where I would condemn the individual police circles and say that it is because they have no respect for animals. It may be that they are in a very difficult situation of priority. But that is why we must, of course, bring it forward and find out how we can then provide the resources needed to enforce our legislation in this area as well as in other areas. Then I cannot help but mention the same point that Mrs Josephine Fock made in relation to animals in agriculture. Because there is no doubt that there are some terrible examples of neglect in households, i.e. where you kill cats in terrible ways or just neglect them in other ways, do not feed them, or what I know; it can be really ugly in all sorts of different ways. We have an agriculture which we actually regulate and which I have no doubt at all has a lot of conscience and also respect for animal welfare etc. etc., but we still have something called caged hens. And I think that now I should be careful not to get agriculture on the back of my head... that a life like a cagebug isn't good animal welfare either. Although I know that battery hens do not die so easily, it is not a worthy animal life if that is the yardstick. Therefore, I think that the focus on animal welfare in private households should also be compared with the animal welfare that we allow in agriculture. It is far along the way very good, also much better than in many other countries. So, I believe that, although it is incredibly industrial in Denmark, a great deal is being done for Danish animals, among other things. Pigs don't suffer from music when they go up the slop on their way to being slaughtered, and I don't know what. It is terrible when you talk about it, but when you talk to those responsible for it, you can also hear that it is actually something they take seriously. Yes, it may be that it is an industrial production, but they actually take seriously that there is a concern for animals; they should not suffer. That is why I have great respect for our agriculture and, as I have said, I believe that in many ways they are pioneers in this area, and yet there are some types of industrial animal husbandry, or whatever you call it, which I think we ourselves will also have to deal critically with from the point of view of animal welfare policy. However, I would like to thank you for the debate. And the proposal for adoption by the Danish People's Party, which I have seen, we can support. We think this is very sensible and balanced, in other words, helping to keep the focus on the area without reproaching the police, because, as I said, we do not know what is why they do not give priority to the area as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419194222	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. And so, as I do not see any rapporteur from the SF we can move on to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419194238	I do not wish to prolong the debate significantly beyond saying that I think it has been a very good debate. I think that this is one of the issues in which we see that the parties of the Danish Parliament are actually expressing such general support that we have to treat our animals properly and that this is serious. I also heard Mrs Karina Due say in her speech that I am not quoting literally anything like how important it is, and I agree that we are focusing on how the police work; how professionalism is in the circles; how we get trained people so they are good at this. In fact, I think that is really, really crucial. I think that is very interesting and very good. Then I welcome the proposal for adoption that we have discussed today and on which we will vote on 24 April, as I remember. The adoption is based on the fact that we are on a ground; we have done better with a financial law; we are doing something good in the circles; we are constantly trying to build up and then say: we are not finished yet; we have to work on the right path. And I think we do that step by step. I am very, very pleased with the good dialogue we have on this area, and I am quite sure that we can continue to have that. However, as I said, I shall not prolong the debate any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419194400	Nor has anyone asked for brief comments. Yes, there is. I'm sorry. I'm gonna have to ask the minister to come back, and then I'm gonna give Mr. Simpson a hand. Peter Kofod Poulsen to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419194410	Thank you. No, I'm sorry, because my button didn't really work, so I had to try sometimes. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would just like to ask: when you look at these cases where people are denied the right to deal with animals, it is our impression that it is too rare in relation to the scale of the cases and the gravity of the cases, so we would like to get that screwed up and tightened up. That's one thing. The second point is that we would like to see more cases where it is not just for two years that you are denied the right to keep animals, but where it is for the rest of your life or at least a significant longer period. These are two elements. Does the Minister agree that this is a road that could be taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419194454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419194457	At least I think it is important that we keep following the area. And I think it is also important that we are aware that we also have to make room for a little difference in this with the right to keep animals. Because there can be a great deal of difference between what an offence has been committed and what gravity it is. And that is where I would like to discuss when, at one end, you will have the opportunity to have animals again if ever, if what you have done is very, very rough. But at the other end, there may also be examples where it is not in that category and where people may well become wiser and more sensible and be able to have animals again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419194535	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419194538	Thank you. Then there is another problem, and these are the cases where someone has been denied this right to keep animals, where you actually see that the same livestock is still there, because it is just said that now it is the wife's animal or a family member's animal or a friend's animal and that they just happen to be in this place, but it is in principle the same violations that just continue and continue. Would the Minister like to take action against this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180419194601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419194604	I therefore have the hope that this is not something I should be sitting with in this way, in addition to what we are doing at the moment, in other words what we are doing with the police, and what we have also talked about, in other words, the constant increase in the level of education and the way we approach matters. Those things would like you to follow up on these things and be aware that people obviously shouldn't do that number, and that if they do, you can come after people quite quickly and quite effectively. I think it is a matter of giving us in the police circles the expertise that is needed in each circle so that we can act quickly on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419194636	No more people have asked for brief comments to the Minister, but I have been informed that the rapporteur for the proposers wanted a second round with a final comment. So I give the floor to Mrs Karina Due. You don't have to run in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419194705	Thank you. I have just asked for a very brief comment to say a thousand thanks to all the various rapporteurs for their commitment to support that text of adoption. I think it is a very good debate that we have had a debate which, as far as I am concerned, never ends. I'm sorry, Minister, but that's the way it is when you have it in your heart. But thank you very much for your positive response, and thank you very much for your commitment both for Denmark's sake and indeed for the animal's sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419194738	As far as I can judge, no more people have any comments on that. That concludes the debate. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday, 24 April 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180419194756	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 20 April 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
