ParlaMint-DK_20181214100012	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and Pernille Schnoor (ALT): Request no. F 29 (In what way does the government want to run the primary school, and what concrete initiatives can make the primary school more free in general?). Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil (S) and others: Question No. F 30 (What does the government think is the cause of the growing mental distrust among children and young people, and what concrete initiatives does the government assess to make young people feel better?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181214100041	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 18 December 2018. That is first of all a reason for the question, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214100109	Thank you. The legacy is a cornerstone of our welfare society and is one of the things that must work so that we can rightly say that we have a welfare society in Denmark. Although it is formally the municipalities that have the task of running our care for the elderly, we in the Danish People's Party feel responsible for ensuring that we here at Christiansborg take the elderly care seriously, and that we help to provide a framework and direction for the elderly, so that it is provided with dignity and security for the elderly. Now that the government has appointed a special minister to take care of the area, an elderly minister, we think it is appropriate to call a question debate where we can get the government's view on the elderly and how it is intended to ensure that the Danes can safely meet their old age, and therefore we have called for this inquiry debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214100214	Thank you. And then it's the Elder Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214100230	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this debate. I have looked forward to today's debate because, as the Minister for the Elderly, it is central to me that we are constantly discussing how to make good care for the elderly even better. That is why I would also like to acknowledge that we now have the opportunity to discuss this important subject broadly here in the Folketing. Because we need to be sure that we can all face our old age safely. And the question today is also a good opportunity to pick up on what new initiatives are under way in the area of the elderly. Because a great deal has happened in the area of the elderly in the course of the autumn, and I would like to come back to that. I would like to start by stating that the government wants Denmark to continue to be a strong welfare society, such as Denmark. We must be aware of the fact that we are taking a dignified interest in older citizens who need help to fend for themselves in everyday life... a welfare society in which it is safe to grow old. It is clear from our government's basis that we are paying high attention to the area of the elderly, and this is also reflected very clearly in the initiatives we have launched. With the recently concluded financial agreement for 2019, we have now for the fourth year in a row concluded an agreement on the Finance Act together with the Danish People's Party, which gives priority to the elderly area. And I would like to take this opportunity to sign the Danish People's Party for that. Together we have given significant boost to the elderly area in recent years, and we have succeeded again this year, so thank you for that. We have, among other things. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of medicinal products for human use. kr. annually for better staffing in home care, in nursing homes, nursing centres and free care homes. On top of this come the separate wage-pool agreements in the area of older people, where together with Dansk Folkeparti and the other wage-pool parties for the second year in a row, we have obtained an independent wage-pool agreement in the area of older people with many ambitious and targeted initiatives. And here I would also like to sign up to the rate pool rapporteurs in this Chamber for a good course of negotiations and, above all, for a very good pool agreement again this year. This brings me to the question that lies at the root of our being gathered in this Chamber today, namely the question from the Danish People's Party about what action the government will take before the turn of the year to ensure that the Danes can safely meet their old age. I would very much like to highlight the many and important initiatives in the area of the elderly, which we, among others, have taken. together with the Danish People's Party during this autumn has agreed to initiate in the area of the elderly. Let me start with the Rate Pool Agreement for the Ageing Area for 2019-2022, which the Government concluded on 30 October together with the other Rate Pool Parties. It is an agreement in which we have set aside 320 million. kr. over the next four years targeted concrete initiatives to support a safe and dignified old age. Part of the wage-pool agreement is that it is now launching an action plan for the good elderly, which will set the track for targeted action over the coming years and will ensure that fewer older people are affected by weakening, loneliness and loss of life courage. The action plan shall include: focus on the following themes: a good transition to the elderly, prevention and rehabilitation in the good elderly, relatives, community and activities and the importance of the environment for the good elderly, targeted action against the weakest elderly and a dignified death. In addition, the Rate Pool Agreement launches several concrete initiatives within the themes of the Action Plan, starting in 2019. This concerns, among other things: on a partnership on the good transition to non-work life, an idea catalogue on elderly-friendly cities, inspirational material on family support and a mapping of knowledge on groups of vulnerable elderly people with special needs. We are also putting forward significant initiatives to combat the loneliness and misfortune of the elderly. We know that men in particular are particularly at risk of loneliness and of poor well-being. At the same time, we know that older home help recipients are among the most lonely groups in society, and this can have serious consequences for the individual, both physically and mentally. That is why, as a society, we must and must help people to break their loneliness. I am therefore also very pleased that with the pool agreement we are taking action on several fronts to help older people out of solitude and into the community. It is also important for people with dementia to remain part of the community. One of the prerequisites for this is that you can walk safely in the public space and be sure to be met with understanding and help. And it can be difficult with a disease like dementia, which can't be seen. I would therefore like to thank the Danish People's Party for putting a particular focus on this issue, so that with the rate pool agreement we will have a voluntary arrangement with dementia, which will help to create visibility in the community around citizens with dementia. So, for example, maybe... The bus driver or clerk better spotted that a citizen might need a helping hand or that special consideration should be given. And citizens with dementia can be safer by going outside their homes. We also set in with help for dementia sufferers who are staying in hospital. Here, volunteers must offer to create a secure environment and proximity for patients with dementia who have no network or where the relatives live far away. With the 2019 Rate Pool Agreement, we have also focused on the stress that it may be to be related to someone close to death who is cared for outside the home, for example. in a nursing home. At the same time, we address the complex grief reactions that may arise when we lose one of our loved ones. Among the elderly who lose a spouse or partner, at least one in ten develops a complex grief reaction, which can be highly disabling. With the rate pool agreement, funds are now being set aside for the National Sorgcenter to develop a group of therapeutic treatment services for elderly people with complex grief reactions. With the investment pool agreement in the area of the elderly, we have also provided funds to support the efforts of the municipalities to build up an initiative in relation to incontinence with a particular focus on older women. In addition to the many initiatives in the venture pool agreement in the area of older people, we have, together with the Danish People's Party, once again concluded a good and solid financial agreement in which the area of older people has been given high priority. With the 2019 Finance Act, the government and Dansk Folkeparti have agreed to allocate a further 650 million. kr. over the next 4 years to support a secure and dignified old age for weakened elderly people. I am very pleased that the government and the Danish People's Party agree to support the municipalities in their efforts to combat loneliness, loss of life, grief and suicide among our older fellow citizens. We have set aside 100 million. kr. to the year in which it is to come. As part of the initiative, we introduce an obligation for municipalities to describe in their dignity policies how to combat local loneliness among the older citizens of the municipality. I believe that there can be a greater focus on combating loneliness around the municipalities when the theme is included in statutory dignity policies. The government and the Danish People's Party also agree to allocate 15 million. kr. Annually over the next four years, an action plan to combat out-of-action behaviour in care for the elderly. We know, for example, that: violence or threats of violence in the care of the elderly affect well-being and working conditions in nursing homes, as well as negative consequences for other residents and relatives. That is why we need to have an action plan with initiatives to support targeted and coherent action to reduce the outgoing behaviour that typically occurs in people with dementia. The action plan follows on from other initiatives such as: The competence promise and several degenerate homes that we have launched in the area of dementia. Then the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has decided to launch a series of initiatives to address recruitment challenges in the health and elderly sectors. If we are to continue to provide high quality care for the elderly, it is essential that there are sufficient staff to carry out the tasks. The government and the Danish People's Party set aside a total of approx. 150 million kr. to meet recruitment challenges. We set, among other things. in with a targeted focus on getting more people to choose and, not least, to undertake a social and health education, and work is being done to strengthen the career paths of sosu assistants with the establishment of two new further education programmes in the field of psychiatry and dementia. In addition, the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has also allocated funds to follow-up work on the development of quality indicators in the care of the elderly, and we have allocated funds to strengthen efforts against unplanned weight loss and malnutrition among the elderly. And although it is outside my area of ministry, I would like to point out that the Financial Act has also improved the economy of pensioners. Once again, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for welcoming the government's financial bill and for bringing even more issues to the negotiating table. The overall outcome of this autumn's debates in the area of the elderly shows once again that it has succeeded in giving priority to both ambitious and targeted initiatives in the area of the elderly, which contribute in various ways to ensuring a safe and dignified care for the elderly and thus a secure and dignified old age. Overall, I think we keep putting the bar high. It is important that we continue to give priority to the elderly. I have become Minister for the Elderly to help ensure dignified care for the elderly and to provide a basis for us to be safe both now and in the future in the care and care that we can expect to receive. However, when we are here today talking about a safe and dignified care for the elderly, it is also very important for me to stress that security about getting old and being guaranteed a decent care and care is not just about what initiatives are being launched or how much money we choose to give priority to the elderly area. It is also very much about how to talk about care for the elderly and about the many committed managers and employees who work daily to ensure that our older citizens have a safe and good everyday life. When both the press, but also we in here at Christiansborg, choose to focus on the places where it works less well, or on specific individual cases, I think there is a distorted picture of how it overall looks with care for the elderly in Denmark. It is not the same as not focusing here at Christiansborg on where there are problems and challenges.Of course we should have that, because we also have a responsibility to contribute to the solutions. After all, our negotiations on recruitment challenges in the area of the elderly have been a good example of this. But there is also a need to tell the good stories, for fortunately there are most of them. I have, among other things. I myself was able to look around all 98 municipalities that I have visited. Here I got so much seen and felt how skilled and committed managers and employees help create a dignified framework with content and meaning for residents of nursing homes. The desire to tell the many good stories and stories from both well-functioning and dignified care for the elderly was also a common theme at the opening conference in Middelfart on 29 November 2018 for the National Knowledge Centre for dignified care for the elderly. There I also sensed that together we have a great task in lifting our share of responsibility for the elderly area being counted out. We are also told the many good stories from everyday life in the care of the elderly, because this also helps us to be comfortable in the face of old age. I hope that there is broad support for this among all the parties of the Folketing. As Minister for the Elderly, I will do my best to raise the issue of the elderly, and in the government, together with the Danish People's Party, we have now also allocated funds to the Finance Act for a campaign effort to improve the image of care for the elderly. Let me conclude by saying that we in the government see the care and care of our elderly as one of the cornerstones of our welfare society. We strive every day to create an elderly care which is guided by the values that we, together with a majority here in the Folketing, seem to define a worthy care and care best. We must continue to talk about how to improve our care for the elderly, and I am therefore also looking forward to today's debate on this very important issue. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214101602	Thank you, Minister. There are some brief comments. Sir. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214101624	Thank you. And from this point of view I would also like to thank the government for its cooperation during the parliamentary term. It is, after all, a parliamentary term that is now falling behind, and I understand from the Prime Minister that the government intends to go to elections together to continue intergovernmental cooperation. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister for the Elderly: what are the government's forward-looking ambitions in the area of the elderly? What are the choices? What is it that the Danes are asked for a mandate to continue in relation to the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214101635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214101635-2	I think that we in the government, together with the Danish People's Party, have shown in the last four years that we are giving priority to the area of the elderly. And there is no doubt that we will follow this in the future. And now I look forward to having all these fine initiatives launched in the new year. And I look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214101659	Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214101705	Thank you. Well, that means that the government is going to vote on the fact that the Danish People's Party will also in future lift up the area of older people in the financial law negotiations. And it's still a funny choice to give the elderly. But that's not what I wanted to ask. I would like to say to the Minister: in his opening words, the Minister emphasizes that it is important that Denmark is also a strong welfare society in the future. All I can do is shout, hear! It's very important. And especially care for the elderly means a great deal to the Danes' safety, not only when you are older, but also throughout your life. Well, it's important that you know that you can look forward to the time when you might not be able to handle everything yourself, because then the community takes over and everyone can be safe in old age. But that's some of what's gone now. It is clear from the government's 2025 plan that you choose to underfinance our welfare because you want to afford tax cuts. And that will mean that there will be savings as there will be more elderly people. The dignity of care for the elderly will suffer. I am deeply concerned about that. I could also imagine that the country's Minister for the Elderly was concerned about this. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister for the Elderly whether the Minister for the Elderly would think it more appropriate to spend the billions we can actually afford to spend on care for the elderly, on care for the elderly, rather than reserve them for tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214101813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214101814	I think it is extremely important that we stick to the fact that one does not exclude the other. We need growth so that we can afford good care for the elderly, and that is one of the things we will continue to do. We give priority to the elderly, and we will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214101831	Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214101834	After all, today's question is about how we can get better at ensuring that more Danes can go to their old age safely. It is clear that the quality of care for the elderly is an important prerequisite for this. However, another important precondition for this is what you can live on, or when you can retire when you can't work anymore, and that is the theme on which I would like to ask the Minister. Yesterday, 3F, which is a trade union for many who have a short training or who are unskilled, decided that they are in favour of a new pension model which allows you to retire earlier, to go to a retirement pension earlier if you have been on the labour market for many years. In short, it is a model in which, if you are a paver who has entered the labour market after the ninth grade, you are entitled to a retirement pension earlier than if you are a consultant who entered the labour market at the age of 28. I would like to know what the Minister's position is on, that we are also discussing this issue and that we, for example, are discussing it. goes in and looks at how to make a differentiated withdrawal so that one could take into account the part of today's theme which is about security in relation to old age.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214101945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214101946	Now it's about withdrawal not on my territory. But I would like to say that I think it is an exciting thought and I think it might be important to have a discussion about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102002	Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102005	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. A little further to Mrs Astrid Krag's question, in relation to how the Finance Act prioritises the area of the elderly, I would like to ask about the question of the recruitment of skilled staff, which is, of course, an important theme and something that we have worked on in this way, and something that also needs to be worked on in the years ahead. I wonder whether the Finance Act has really given priority to the great need, to recruit more staff, also in the long run, or has the government really only chosen a very short-term solution, where we might just manage the garbage in 2019, while 2020, 2021 and 2022 still hangs away when it comes to making the long-term dimensioning plans?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102052	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102054	They are being negotiated at this stage somewhere else, so how they end up, I cannot say for good reasons. I know that we have wanted a mapping in order to get a recruitment that goes further than 2019. In fact, I think that shows that with the answers and the things that we have made, which we also told you yesterday at the broad rapporteur's meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102119	Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102121	I would like to ask if I understood the answer to Mr. Jep Jakobsen correctly, namely that the Minister for the Elderly would like to use the time after the next elections, if she is allowed to continue, to make the things that have been agreed into reality, or whether there is something new?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102142	Well, there's no doubt that we're following this area, and if there's any need, we're going in exactly as we've been doing in the last four years. We must, of course, follow this closely and, of course, we must ensure that we can help those people who need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102157	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the rapporteur of the questioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102219	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The question has, it might be said, been somewhat overtaken by reality, among other things. with the conclusion of a rate pool agreement and, in particular, the financial law agreement for next year. I must say straight away that we in the Danish People's Party are very pleased with the initiatives that have been taken in these contexts. First of all, we are very pleased that the Finance Act is doing something about the retirement pension. It is a large part of going to your old age with security that you are also financially confident about having to enjoy your retirement. And we'll do something about that with the Finance Act. We are raising the retirement pension in general and we are ensuring better regulation and we are ensuring less set-off so that saving is better. Some initiatives are being taken in the field of recruitment, and I see this in relation to the care of the elderly as the absolutely greatest challenge we are facing right now. If we do not have any staff in the care of the elderly, we simply do not have any care for the elderly, which is why it is important that we now start addressing the challenge of recruitment. It was a debate that we started in the Danish People's Party as early as last year, and we are therefore pleased to have now reached a place where we take concrete initiatives. In addition, we have made agreements that counter loneliness. We are strengthening the National Knowledge Centre for dignified care of the elderly, which we got on the rate pool last year, and we are contributing to the visibility and detabulation of dementia so that society can better talk about it and can better help people who are affected by this terrible disease. However, we are not in line with the agreements that have been reached and, as stated in the explanatory statement, the municipalities have the task of delivering the elderly in reality. For the Danish People's Party there is no doubt that there is a fluctuating interest in the municipalities in order to give priority to the elderly area. There are some municipalities that are doing very well, and here I would like to highlight Aarhus Municipality as a magnificent example of a municipality that really prioritises this area. It can be seen by the fact that the investment pool agreements quite often have initiatives from Aarhus, which are made national, and you can see it quite concretely, by the fact that the satisfaction studies in Aarhus Municipality point in one direction • the citizens are becoming more and more satisfied with the elderly in the municipality of Aarhus. In this connection, I should like to mention that it may have something to do with the fact that the alderman in Aarhus is DFs, Jette Skive, and she is doing very well and is one of my great idols. In this connection, the Danish People's Party has no fine sense of local self-government in the case of municipalities which, like Aarhus, are not good at prioritising the elderly. That is why we will continue to contribute, on the other hand, to earmarking more funds, so that the municipalities are forced to spend the money needed to ensure decent care for the elderly. We will also follow up the municipalities closely and ensure that the initiatives adopted here in the Danish Parliament are also translated into reality. As I have said, we do not have a good sense of local self-government, which is why we are quite willing to go quite far to ensure that the municipalities remember that this is a core task and something that must be prioritised before all kinds of other initiatives are launched in one's municipality. That will be what we are going to go for, in other words to continue earmarking funds and continuing close control of the municipalities in order to ensure that this welfare area does not disappear between our hands. Finally, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers it essential that there is a safe and dignified care for the elderly. The Danish Parliament notes that the elderly area and dignity in the care of the elderly are a priority in the most recent fiscal and rate pool agreements as well as municipal economic agreements. The financial agreement between the government and Dansk Folkeparti for 2019 guarantees approx. 650 million kr. for e.g. the fight against loneliness and dissatisfaction among the elderly, as well as the strengthening of the professional quality of care for the elderly, as well as initiatives targeted at recruitment challenges in the area of the elderly, a challenge that the Folketing will face. Actions complement the priorities of recent years in the area of the elderly, including: better manning and more dignity in care for the elderly. The Danish Parliament insists on the fact that the transfer of funds previously earmarked to the block grant should not be a reason to stop good initiatives. The Danish Parliament expects the government to continuously follow developments in the area of the elderly and to keep the municipalities up their obligation to provide dignified care for the elderly. • V 51).
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102750	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there are some brief comments. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102802	I believe that politicians must be measured not by what we say, but by what we actually do. There may be situations in which a party does not have 90 mandates behind its proposal, and then, as it were, one cannot really be blamed for the fact that it did not materialise. But the situation is different for the Danish People's Party, which has once again made financial legislation with the government, and where you can therefore ask: What then came out of it? After all, the Danish People's Party had every opportunity to get through what was considered important. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur why the Danish People's Party chose to spend 750 million. kr. on a deserted island instead of giving more time to the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102840	It is the case that the Danish state spends over 36 billion each year. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We see it as a rather large and important task to have that figure reduced, and the new exit centre at Lindholm helps to reduce that figure so that we can spend more money, more of the Danes' tax dollars on elderly care rather than on non-western immigration, and I know that there are other ambitions in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102914	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102916	But that's not true. It is a waste of money, of our Danish treasures, that they are now placed in an island. You could have chosen instead of getting more educators in our day care facilities, getting more electric cars or making a difference in the care of the elderly. I've just heard the Danish People's Party talk a lot about wanting to do something for the elderly, but when you come to the table where you actually distribute the money, why don't you choose to give priority to the elderly? Why did they choose to spend the money on an island?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214102953	Nor is it true that we have not given priority to the elderly. When you count together what we have spent on initiatives in the care of the elderly, plus what we have spent on a better folk pension, the amount far exceeds what we spend on Lindholm. So it's a falsum where you take one part out and compare it to a smaller part of something else. That is simply not true. And just to repeat it: 36 billion. kr. every single year is spent on non-Western immigration • the figure goes down in the Danish People's Party's optics, and Lindholm contributes to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103027	Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103030	Thank you. I would also like to ask how the Danish People's Party gives priority to the elderly. The Danish People's Party has on several occasions agreed completely with SF that it makes very good sense to ensure that municipal older budgets should follow demographic developments a little on the basis that more and more elderly people should not share the same and too few resources. That is why I was extremely disappointed when I saw the Finance Act and was able to see that too few resources for the municipalities have been given priority once again if demographic development is to be followed. The Workers' Employment Council simply estimates that 2 billion are missing. kr., or that which is the difference from 0.4 percent, which the government has prioritised, and then up to 0.65%, if you just have to keep up with demographic developments. How does it happen that the Danish People's Party, which has such a strong influence on the Finance Act, fails exactly when they have the opportunity to press the button?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103130	I simply do not want to say that it is a failure on the part of the elderly to add more funds. I would like to say that what took place during the last parliamentary term, when there was less funding for the municipalities, was a failure. I would like to say this. I do not think it is to abandon the elderly to add more funds. I do not accept the premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103150	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103151	The big difference is that now we have the money. The big difference is that we have had the opportunity to prioritize the money for the elderly area, and instead, the Danish People's Party has helped to prioritise very, very large tax cuts over the elderly, which the Danish People's Party has otherwise agreed with SF on other occasions that we should give priority to, among other things. by ensuring that municipal budgets can keep up with demographic developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103220	But the Danish People's Party has been involved in prioritising the area of the elderly. After we helped get the majority here in the Folketing, there are now more than 2 billion each year. kr. more to care for the elderly in the municipalities. So that's 2 billion. kr. more than there was when it was Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen's party that had the decisive mandates and thus was able to press the then government. This is a very marked difference out there in the municipalities, which can be felt by the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103248	Thank you. Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103251	Now I don't want to get lost in the past, but the fact is that 3 billion were spent anyway. kr. It is a good thing that we can also see that more money is being spent as there are more older people, but that does not change the fact that there is a backlog. But that is not what I wanted to ask the rapporteur at all. I will follow up on the question put by the rapporteur to the Minister for the Elderly earlier, because we can hear that, in this way, the Minister for the Elderly thinks it is good to give priority to the money for tax relief, but I did not hear the Minister for the Elderly outline such a programme or any ambition that points out in the future in relation to the elderly area. I heard the Minister for the Elderly say that it would be nice if it could continue to be as it has been so far, namely that the Danish People's Party ensures that the area of the elderly is lifted, and that is of course a receipt to the Danish People's Party. We are also pleased that the Danish People's Party has done so, and that is why I just want to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether it is a sufficient level of ambition that the Danish People's Party is experiencing from the current government, which also wants to be a government during the next government period.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103359-2	It is probably not without reason that the Danish People's Party wants a new government after the next parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103406	Here you go, Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103407	Can the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party perhaps clarify this a little? After all, we are looking into a future in which nearly 90,000 more citizens will be over 80 years of age, and that is very good news, because it means that we live longer, but it also means that there will be more citizens who need care and care and help. At the same time, the government has a 2025 plan, and with the economic policy that is being proposed there, there will be 10,000 fewer public employees. The Danish People's Party would like to have a new government, which among other things. The party of the elderly minister is not part of, as I understand it, but what are the requirements of the political for a future government? What does the Danish People's Party see as economic policy, as we have so many more older people, must be in order to support a government or even be part of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103454-2	The Danish People's Party's approach to government negotiations should we find ourselves in the situation that it will be relevant that there will be means for the demography to evolve as it does, and I think it is generally known that it is the policy of the Danish People's Party, and that is of course what we would like to see reflected in a future government basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103518	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103521	Thank you. I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party about this statement from 3F that came yesterday, compared to the fact that 3F now believes that we should create a new pension system that ensures that there is a difference between when you can go to a retirement pension, depending on the length of your working life. The Danish People's Party is part of the so-called welfare agreement, which means that if you are now 30 years old and work like this. If you are aged 73 you can look forward to retirement at the age of 73. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether it would give a slaughterhouse worker or a paver the prospect of a safe old age, or whether we should follow this idea, which 3F now supports, by introducing a new pension model, which makes it possible to differentiate retirement age according to the length of your working life.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103621	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103622	I fully acknowledge the issue raised by 3F. The problem I think is more of a practical one, because I can see it here with saying that if you are a paver, you have a very hard working life, whereas if you are an academic you do not necessarily have the same working pressure, but how do you figure it out if you like to say what do I say mathematician is living in his education by working as a bricklayer worker? How is that going to count into the same equation? And that is why I am not sure that this differentiation of occupational groups is such a particularly workable version, although I think the idea is good. I think that the basic conditions which lie in the idea of a senior early retirement pension are better, so it can be said that those who are actually worn out must be helped to be able to retire to the senior early retirement pension so that they can retire before the others because they are worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103727	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103728	A relatively simple way of making a differentiated retirement age was, after all, by linking it to the number of years spent on the labour market. It is well known that if one has a short education or is unskilled, one usually enters the labour market much earlier than if one first has to go through a longer academic education. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we have put forward a proposal which says that if you have been 40 years on the labour market, you must have the right to withdraw. This is, of course, a simple way of administering such a system, and this would also target the early retirement scheme for those who usually have a hard working life.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103808	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103809	Yes, but the problem becomes just how to define years in the labour market, because there are many students who have a job next to their studies. Would they still be able to retire at the same time as the bricklayer because they have had some part-time work? If this is to be done, on the basis of having been in full-time employment, a great many of those we normally talk about, namely the sosu assistants, will not be able to retire, despite the fact that they in the municipalities have the absolutely worst working environment. So I can still see a lot of problems in this with the differentiated retirement age, but we have to figure it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103843	Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103845	Thank you. Now I am looking at the rapporteur, and on the board behind the rapporteur is the wording of the question debate I am very pleased that the rapporteur has called the debate we have today, and it says: what action will the government take before the turn of the year to ensure the Danes' security, etc.? And I noticed that the rapporteur asked the Minister what the Minister will do in the coming period, in other words after the elections, if we do not have a change of government. But that is not really what the question debate is about. But I would still like to ask, because I do not want to go into these teasing questions about why you want to spend all that money on an island: what are some initiatives that the Danish People's Party would have initiated before the turn of the year if the Danish People's Party had got it through in the financial law agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214103942	What the Danish People's Party really wants to work with is that there is more time for social care in the care of the elderly. For this reason, we have also, to some extent, turned the funds that the government had set up to combat loneliness, so that they should be used to a large extent in civil society, so that we allow them to go more to the care of the elderly, so that, for example, in a municipality, we can go more to the care of the elderly. can prioritize that a home helper can sit down and drink a cup of coffee with a person who may not have so many people to talk to in everyday life. This is the way we would like to see care for the elderly now going, because there is a great deal of good in terms of health care in the elderly. We would like more time for the human and social aspects of care for the elderly. We also believe that it would be a good way to go, as far as the problem of recruitment is concerned, to have more time to engage in the people we work with. So it is such a situation where everyone wins if we can move on along that path.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214104042	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214104044	But realistically, what is at stake today is not something that can be started before the turn of the year. I would just like to point out that the rapporteur was very concerned about what the Minister could like to offer on the ground. I would also like to say in this connection that I agree with my fellow rapporteurs that it is relatively few people who have been chosen to spend a great many millions of kroner on • I believe that it is 70 people who are involved in this matter but it is in quite a different area. So could it not have been possible to get something more through in the financial law negotiations in the area of the elderly, as it seems that the Danish People's Party has a great deal of focus on this when they call us for this inquiry debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214104133	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214104134	Now I am not going to turn this into a debate on semantics, but it is starting and not finishing before the turn of the year, and we have started something in connection with the Finance Act. We will adopt this plan, as I understand it, before the end of the year. Then it is true that more could have been done in the area of the elderly. Theoretically, you can do anything in a finance agreement, and if it had been written to the Danish People's Party alone, more was also done, but unfortunately we do not have 90 mandates yet, and then we have to accept that we have to negotiate with others.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214104211	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on in the actual rapporteur's line. Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214104223	Thank you. It was a delightful form of optimism to say before a coming election year: we do not yet have 90 mandates. Then it's kind of warmed up for campaigning. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for the opportunity for us in this Chamber to discuss the help we give to our older fellow citizens. With less than six months in the election, it is a good time to take stock of what it is like in Denmark to be older with a need for a hand from the community. Thank you to the Minister for the Elderly for her review. That sounds very much all, as you would say over there in Jutland, where I come from. What the Minister is not doing so much to mention is that we have a government and an elderly minister who does not act on the problems of care for the elderly until they are pressured to do so. Exactly one year ago, I think it is actually today that we managed to avert the huge savings on the housing support of the elderly, which the government had otherwise planned. Since then, we have had problems with bankruptcy in home care, lack of trained staff, violence against employees and lack of driving time, just to mention a few examples where the government remained passive until we, together with good forces, and thanks for this in the Danish Parliament, got pressured action through. It paints a picture of a government in which we may have an elderly minister, but not the great self-abiding ambitions on behalf of the care of the elderly. So to status: There are a lot of skilled employees out there who are doing a huge effort every day, good leaders and plenty of times with quality of life and dignity for the weakest elderly who need help, support and care. But unfortunately, the good stories are far from the whole picture when we have to take stock of our care for the elderly. On the contrary, the latest security survey from TrygFonden shows a clear picture of a welfare area in which people's confidence is crumbling. 54 per cent. The Danes fear that they will not get sufficient care when they grow old, and the Danes therefore do not worry for no reason, even though the Elder Minister tries to draw a picture that everything is joy and old. For the reality and everyday life of care for the elderly is also a reality where there is a strong run too strong. On my tours around the country's municipalities, I meet managers, shop stewards and health and safety representatives who can tell that the standards have deteriorated, that there are fewer colleagues on duty, and that everyday life can only be linked at the nursing home because managers succeed in getting flex workers, company practitioners and volunteers to participate as part of the setup around the everyday lives of the elderly. It is not without reason that those points go back when I come around the country, because just since the parliamentary elections in 2015, when Lars Løkke Rasmussen became prime minister, the number of public full-time positions in the elderly care has fallen by 3,700. During the same period, the number of +80-year-olds has increased by more than 17,000. So we are in a situation where significantly more elderly people need care and care and where there are fewer employees to deliver it. This puts pressure on the care that can be provided, and that is what we see reflected in the Danes' fear of not being able to get proper care when they themselves get older and cannot cope with everyday life. The statistics also tell the same story. One in five elderly care workers is very stressed, and almost half of the sosu suffers virtually every day from inadequate staffing. If the government continues, yes, then that development will continue. 10,000 fewer public employees will be in 2025 with the government's policy, and this will be felt for a number of years, when there will be an increasing number of older people • 259,000 more Danes over 80 years up to 2040, and the almost 90,000 we already have when we hit 2025. In his speech, the Elders' Minister explained the money sent by the Danish People's Party to the elderly, with the help of the Danish People's Party. But the truth is that since Lars Løkke Rasmussen became prime minister, welfare has been underfunded by 4.4 billion. kr., and it can be felt in the municipalities, where you have to keep searching for savings. We hear about deterioration in night-time staffing at care centres, a farewell to the cutting-card scheme for the elderly, activities that must be saved away in nursing homes, and even discussions about replacing the baths of the elderly with wet napkins. These are savings that can be taken and felt by the individual citizen. We cannot provide the elderly with better care and care if the municipalities are to start every year cutting back. Therefore, in the years to come, public budgets must keep pace with the increasing number of elderly people. And then we must have more confidence in the employees and give the individual nursing home and district more self-determination and the opportunity to retain some of the gains that can be achieved through, for example. to reduce sickness absenteeism. Today, lower absenteeism also means a lower budget the following year, and this is, after all, a very good example of some of the totally biased incentives we have in the public sector of our care for the elderly. All this, and even more so, the Social Democracy has unfolded in the self-government reform of the public sector that we launched before the summer recess. I am pleased to see how the great Dementia Action Plan lifts efforts for people with dementia with more knowledge, stronger professionalism for employees and a broader understanding of the disease among Danes. We are pleased that we have now got a Knowledge Centre for dignified care for the elderly, and we look forward very much to getting started on getting a more uniform quality for the elderly across municipal boundaries when the new quality indicators come to work, not only on paper, but also in everyday life. So many good things are happening, but much is happening despite and on the backs of savings and fewer colleagues for an increasing number of elderly people. It shouldn't be like that. Then I have a proposal for adoption which I will read out. It is posed by the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left and Socialist People's Party and reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament is concerned about the development of elderly care with a decrease in paid home help hours, fewer employees for a growing number of elderly people, large differences in service levels between municipalities and the challenges of securing skilled labour. The result is a care for the elderly, where there is a lack of time for proper and dignified care and care for our elderly. And where the working environment is under pressure. The Danish Parliament notes with concern that next year's Finance Act is lacking up to 2 billion. kr., if welfare is to keep up with the growing number of elderly and children. This means further deterioration of welfare. The Danish Parliament calls on the government to ensure a growth in the public sector, where the money follows developments in demography, so that municipalities do not have to start every year cutting down on welfare, including care and care for the elderly. • V 52).
ParlaMint-DK_20181214104823	Then there are a number of questions and comments. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214104843	Thank you for that and thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur for the speech. I understand that the Social Democrats are preoccupied with taxes. Back in 2011, the Social Democratic Party went to the polls to introduce a millionaire tax, but you ended up lowering the top tax. A tax agreement was made in 2012, which gave the executive family 21,000 DKK. more in hand and at the same time the cash aid families gave 5,000 kroner. smaller and early retirement 13,000 DKK. less a year. In addition, the service framework of the municipalities was reduced by 3.5 billion. kr. in the period from 2011 to 2015, that is, under the leadership of the Social Democrat government, which the rapporteur supported at that time. I understand that we are not only concerned about taxes; we are also concerned about welfare. What are the arguments that the rapporteur has to convince not only us in this Chamber, but perhaps also the voters out there that in fact, perhaps after an election, we are going to do something about it and not run away again from all promises? I just mention, as I started with the idea of introducing a millionaire tax, and then you ended up lowering the top tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105006	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105009	It is true that the rapporteur of the Left came a long way there, that is to say. Well, if we are to start with two of the backward-looking things, I actually said it earlier in this Chamber, namely that when we left the government offices, some 3 billion were spent. kr. more on welfare in the municipalities than when we went in. It seems to me, in fact, stupid of the Left to criticise for the moment that it was a boost that happened during a period when Denmark was in the deepest economic crisis since the 1930s. This is not where we are today, and it is a major difference in relation to what kind of opportunities we have as a government and it does not really use the current government, I do not think so. I mean, it's hopeless that you have a financial law where it's cheaper to have a private plane and a yacht right now. It is now that we can actually afford to invest in what we share, and that is one of them. Our care for the elderly, it's our hospitals, it's our childcare. It is a political choice, which way you will go, and fortunately the Danes will soon have a political choice, and then we will see whether they have the most faith in the Prime Minister's candidate for the Left, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, or the Socialist bid for the same, Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105110	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105111	The rapporteur does not, of course, respond to what I am asking, namely what it is that should make us all believe that social democracy does not run away again from all the promises that are being made here. I can only note that during the period from 2011 to 2015, the Social Democratic led government cut 3.5 billion. kr. in the service framework of the municipalities. And the service framework is, of course, the one to ensure the citizens' welfare that is under discussion here today. After all, it is the one who must ensure a dignified care for the elderly, good schools, that both young and elderly people thrive out in the Danish country. What is it that should make us believe that social democracy does not run away again from all those promises? We've seen this before.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105200	I am a little sad on behalf of the Left if the Left expects to regain government power to talk about what happened during a deep economic crisis last time, and then even have no control over the figures. I mean, when we left government offices, 3 billion were spent. kr. More on the welfare of the municipalities than when we got into them. Then the Left can jump and dance all they want and sing bride songs as usual. If we look forward then we have a healthy Danish economy, where we actually have the opportunity to keep up with the increasing number of elderly people, where we actually have the opportunity to ensure that there is not a run so fast out there that there is not so much pressure that there is a dignified care and care for the elderly, both in the care of the elderly and in our hospitals. We should invest in that. But what does the present government want? They will pursue an economic policy that will lack 10 000 public sector employees in 2025. It's totally hopeless.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105249	Sir. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105250	Thank you. This thing about how much money is available for welfare in Denmark is such a funny concept. That depends on how to define the means. These 36 billion. kr., we spend on the consequences of non-Western immigration, is something that the Social Democrats would count on as means of welfare. However, if we now stick to the area we are debating today, namely the area of the elderly, then today there is more money available than there were four years ago in the same area. There is, of course, very much because the current majority has prioritised the funds, earmarked them so that the municipalities cannot spend them on everything else. Can we expect the same earmarking from a social democratic government, or will the municipalities themselves be allowed to define what they think they will spend their tax dollars on?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105344	Well, this is a well-known discussion that we have on an ongoing basis, that is, on how best to spend the money. When we made the older billion, which was deposed when Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt was prime minister, it was earmarked, and then it went on the block when this government stepped in. So I would say that earmarking funds can make sense. It may also make sense to create development pools, but we will certainly do significantly less than we have done so far. And then it's really important to remember how to make money. We have seen some really bad examples. I believe that this was the first rock map scheme under this government where the funds were put into effect according to the ordinary block grant key. That meant that in Gentofte Municipality you got 16,000 kr., I think, to solve what you got 4,000 kr. to solve pr. older on Læsø. At least there was a very large geographical spread. So you have to be aware that sometimes it may be necessary to earmark. It should also be borne in mind that it often makes sense to ensure that the money is distributed according to the demographic key rather than the block grant key. However, this will be a debate on a case-by-case basis, so I cannot stand here in advance and say that in future all funds must be earmarked, but I can at least say that it is not the case that we will refuse to earmark funds. There may be a great need for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105449	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105451	I think that's what you can call the definition of a politician's answer, that's where you don't really say what you're counting on. I said it quite clearly: in every case the Danish People's Party will go to earmark the funds. But am I to understand that the money that the Social Democratic Party would like to spend on welfare can just as well be spent on building football stadiums that they can go to build delicious nursing homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105514	No. We have a clear expectation, when we enter into agreements with the municipalities, that the money will also be spent on what they need to do. That is why we earmarked our older billions when we had the power of government, that is, because we had made a financial law agreement the year before, which set aside 1⁄2 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. So in this way the rapporteur can see that we also earmarked money for smart damage. There may be cases where ear tags are too inflexible or where this means that there is too much bureaucracy. In this way you may have to look at it on a case-by-case basis, but on the whole it often makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105556	Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105559	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. Now I think we are just getting the debate on what is really at stake, instead of such a thing, in plain terms, a little mud throwing, teasing and all sorts of other things. What is the social democracy's attitude to all this bullshit about earmarking? For the rapporteur says in his speech that we want uniform quality in all municipalities, not only on paper, but in reality. And the reality is that we have to deal with that, I fully agree with the rapporteur, but the challenge is often that we see that the municipalities act incredibly differently. Now I have such a tendency to sit and look in the news and see what is actually happening in the area of older people. And very often these are indications that savings are being made and that conditions for older people around several municipalities are deteriorating. There are also many municipalities that do very well, but with regard to that uniformity, also in relation to e.g. I now need the rapporteur to be a little more specific instead of saying here that there may be a need, that there may be some opportunities for it, but it may also be etc. We know that many municipalities in Denmark are led by social democratic mayors, so how does S at Christiansborg intend to do this here in relation to the municipalities in the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105714	Yeah, among other things. there is, after all, a very good social democratic mayor in the municipality of Aarhus, who was highlighted earlier by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Well, part of getting a more uniform quality, which is one of the things we want, is about the work on the quality indicators, for which it is probably three years since we put money into, and where we have then lifted the work forward. And I hope that we are very close to getting the work out to work, that is to say that we get some uniform and not very many, but continuous indicators that we can measure so that we can measure what quality the various municipalities can deliver. For this, ensuring that the elderly receive the same assistance in municipality A as in municipality B, i.e. that it is not the postal number that determines whether you get the help you need, is not only solved with the funds earmarked at the top of the approximately 45 billion. kr. already spent on care for the elderly, right? If we are to resolve this, we must ensure that the quality of all the money we spend is uniform and not just the new money that is being put at the top of it. That is why we need to be more systematically able to compare and be able to see what quality we are getting as a citizen; what quality standards we can deliver; where there are fewer older citizens, for example. are admitted to the hospital; where you are best at preventable hospitalizations etc. So we need to talk not only about earmarking new funds, but, of course, about all the money spent on the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105834	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105835	This means that S at Christiansborg is preoccupied with actually having a slightly sharper and closer dialogue with the municipalities after an election if it is that one has the government power to ensure that there is this greater uniformity. I would like a brief answer to that. Another thing is that, as I heard, it was said in the proposal for adoption that 2 billion are missing. kr. Now I don't have it right here in writing, I've only listened to it. Can the rapporteur not just tell us where it is then, those 2 billion? kr. Coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105909	First one. As far as the evaluation is concerned, for example. We have written rehabilitation into the home help section of the Social Services Act, so it showed that there is a great variation in how it has been implemented in the municipalities, i.e. how many resources you actually spend on rehabilitating the elderly and how much it has become something that can smell a bit of a saving exercise. There shouldn't be such a big variation. If I had been the minister responsible for this evaluation, then I can promise that I would have knocked on the table and called a meeting. Now we had a talk that I think there was something about the data base, and for me it is still blinking as something that we need to follow up politically. This is not something that really happens on its own initiative by the government. Now we do not have that long before an election, but that is at least one of the things we need to follow up. So, yeah, I mean, you have to follow this closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214105952	Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110000	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. After all, the rapporteur is talking about budgets and what funds have been set aside and the municipalities do not have the money to spend on the elderly. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur about this fantastic budget law on expenditure ceilings created by the former government Bjarne Corydon, where the rapporteur was also a minister. It was adopted in May 2012. It helps to ensure that the municipalities, as the Minister himself says, have a healthy economy and have an incredible amount of money in the box out there, but are not allowed to spend it. Will the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party, if they came to power after the next elections, do something about these ceilings so that the municipalities could actually use the money they have out there for welfare as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110049	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110053	After all, the whole background to the budget law was the violent leap in the budgets which were looked up through the 00s, i.e. where the municipalities entered into economic agreements with a government and then used significantly more than had been agreed. And by the way, all economists warned against it. This would mean that we would be hit very hard by a possible economic crisis, which came after all. And that is also the reason why Denmark was actually hit harder by the economic crisis than many other countries, and it took us longer to get out of it. And that is one of the things we are still struggling with today. I mean, we all helped hold on and pay for us to get out of the crisis. That is why the budget law is important to ensure that we do not get back into such a situation. So from the outset, there is a very good explanation for the fact that we have that budget law. Then there is something about the expenditure ceilings that lie there and the money that the municipalities are going to spend on, for example. the elderly, where we believe that the current government is far too low in relation to the increase in public expenditure; we believe that they should increase twice as much. So, of course, within the budget law and the rules that apply, there are opportunities to give different priorities, and there we will give priority to welfare before tax relief in relation to the current government. And I also think that the Danish People's Party is making some independent thoughts within the framework of the budget law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110206	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110209	Thank you. I hear that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party do not intend to make it easier for municipalities to spend the money they have out there in the future. That's too bad. But then I would also like to ask the rapporteur about the uniformity that he would like to see in relation to the welfare of the elderly. If the municipalities do not comply with the standards referred to by the rapporteur, is the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party willing to go in and look at local self-government and put more restrictions on municipalities that do not want to meet the standard and uniformity that is found here by the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110253	In fact, I think that a significant part of this will come of itself. For I believe that the individual head of the nursing home and the individual employees in each nursing home and every home care unit are driven by doing so as well as possible. There are also many committed municipal councillors around there. So the mere fact that we have access to quality indicators that make it possible to look black and white, that we are doing badly in relation to the neighbouring municipality in relation to the elderly who are hospitalised, I think that we are going to improve quality. But it is clear that this is also something that will allow us to look at those areas where there is too large and too unacceptable a difference, and it will of course be something that will be obvious for a government to enter into negotiations with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110327	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110332	Thank you. After all, social democracy is part of the welfare agreement, as it is called, together with the governing parties and the Danish People's Party, where it has been agreed that the retirement age of the Danes should increase continuously, so if you are now 30 years old, you can look forward to a retirement age of 73 years. I have already asked several times in this debate about this issue of a differentiated retirement age, which 3F reported yesterday that they support. I have also seen that there is a large majority of the population who think it would be a good idea to have the opportunity to retire earlier if you have had a long working life, for example. started early after primary school. Then I have noticed that the Social Democratic Party has also begun to move in that debate and to be more positive about going that way. I would therefore like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur whether there will be a more concrete proposal before the elections on how to imagine it. We have, of course, put forward a proposal on the part of Enhedslisten, but are you sitting there with something concrete, or is it more just such a positive statement, just as the Minister also thinks it is an exciting thought?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110448	It is always so good when you are told that something is an exciting thought, and you can hear that it actually means exactly the opposite. I'm not gonna throw myself into that here. Well Enhedslisten has probably also noticed that one of the struggles that Social Democracy has in recent times entered the most into Danish politics has been to slow down the government's dreams of raising the Danish retirement age further. Fortunately, we had this averted with the Danish People's Party, and one cannot help but fear that the government will implement it as soon as they have the opportunity to do so if they are given the opportunity to do so. So keeping alive is an important discussion. I also very much agree with the rapporteur, and indeed also with the other rapporteurs who the rapporteur has asked about this, that we have a problem with people who have hard physical work or, as such, in some cases also a hard psychological work environment, which is worn out completely and which, at the end of their working lives, must be on medication daily to cope with the pressure of work and to get up and go to work at all. Something needs to be done here, but it is probably above my salary to stand on the platform today and launch something on the part of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110553	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110559	It is quite true that the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party, as well as the Enhedslisten and the SF, have together blocked the possibility of raising the pensionable age by 1⁄2 years beyond what is already planned. And that's really good. But that does not change the fact that the next time the Danish Parliament has to decide on the retirement age, and that will be already in 2020, it will have to decide whether to raise the pensionable age to 69 years. The Social Democratic Party is bound by that agreement today. That is why I would like to ask whether plans are being made to terminate the welfare settlement, so that, for example, we can do something about it. could discuss how a differentiated retirement age could be set up or whether one would vote against the next time the Folketing has to decide in concrete terms whether the retirement age should be raised to 69 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110648	Let me just make it quite clear that there is too much inequality when it comes to how many good years we have with the wife or husband and grandchildren after retirement. There's too much inequality. It is both when it comes to the number of years and the quality of those years; how many days you can get out of bed without having to eat painkillers, even after working life is over. That's why we need to look at it. I believe that the Social Democratic Party has committed itself to this, but it is not for me, as rapporteur for the elderly, to begin to roll out these plans in a debate on initiatives in the area of the elderly before the turn of the year. However, I have noted both support for it and an indication that others also think it is an important issue, and then I look forward to the discussions we will have on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110728	Thank you. Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110734	Thank you. I would just like to ask Mrs Astrid Krag how it can be that she is scolding the government and the Minister for the Elderly so much for not giving priority to the area of the elderly, since we can see that this government has given priority to the area of the elderly much higher priority than the previous government, of which Mrs Astrid Krag was herself a part. So I don't understand the scold on this government. Why didn't you do more when you were in government? And how can we be sure in future that we can rely on the Social Democrats' promises to do more in relation to those efforts?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214110820	That was at least exactly the same question as I was asked by the rapporteur of the Left, in terms of structure, but I shall try to answer it again. Right now we are in a situation where the Danish economy is well. We are long ago through the crisis; there are surpluses; the economy is sustainable; we actually have the opportunity to invest where it lags. And one of the places where it lags, where the working environment is under pressure, and where the Danes' confidence begins to crumble, is in our older area. And that is why it is, I think, right on the surface that we should use the healthy and strong economy to invest here and also invest in our hospitals, near hospitals, in several nurses, in ensuring that all Danes are a practicing doctor. We can now. But we can only use the money once. So when, like the government, you think it's important to reserve money for tax breaks if they have to go back to private jets and yachts, as in this finance law, or whatever they have to go to, you can't spend that money on welfare. And this is where we basically disagree. We have put forward a health issue which, among other things, includes: There are a large number of improvements for older patients, where we can invest 53 billion. kr. More towards 2025. After all, it is more than this government has in all for welfare, because it insists on reserving a very large sum towards 2025, which we will not spend on our welfare because we will be able to afford tax cuts. This is a fundamental political disagreement as to how we are looking forward now. When we had power, we were in an economic crisis. In addition, 3 billion were spent. kr. More on welfare when we went out of government offices than when we went into them. But it's a real difference. And the government will have to stand by that too. I don't think you're gonna make it through an election campaign where you talk about time of crisis in Denmark and act like we're still in it, because we don't. We can actually afford to invest in our welfare now. The Danes can see that too. Now let them have an honest political choice about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214111008	Please remember that you have to push in. But here you go, Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214111014	Thank you. That sounds a lot like what the Social Democrats said before they went to the elections last time, when they saw in the parliamentary term doing exactly the opposite. And there's just what I'm saying: how are we supposed to trust the promises of social democracy this time? Even before the elections, we need funding for all the billions. It is simply said that this can be taken away from the scope, but the room for manoeuvre has been created because of reforms which the Social Democrats themselves have been involved in making, and how should room be created for manoeuvre in the future if you simply use the room for manoeuvre without giving any initiatives on how there should be room for manoeuvre in the future? How is this to be financed in the future? We hear nothing about this from the Social Democrats. And this government, please! kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214111102	When I say yes, it's because you have to stop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214111106	Thank you, President. This is simply not connected. In other words, how can we both say that there is a lack of funding, and then say that we are pointing out that part of this is financed by the scope created by reforms we have made? There is room for manoeuvre, yes, because we have implemented reforms and made difficult political priorities that got Denmark out of the crisis. That is why we are in a very different situation from what we did when we took over government offices. The hole in the box was far deeper than what the then government had expressed. It was much deeper. And you can't magic; you can't spend money that isn't there. But now we all agree, including the government, that a room for manoeuvre has been created towards 2025 because of the reforms we have made, and there we just point out quite quietly that we believe that the room for manoeuvre should be used to invest in what we share: our care for the elderly, our hospitals, our kindergartens, our public schools, what we share, and what all Danes depend on to have a safe everyday life. The present government will not peace with it but then proceed with the project to the Danes instead of going forward and talking about the time when Denmark was in a deep economic crisis. It just doesn't work out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214111210	Thank you. Then there are no more questions or comments to the rapporteur. Then the rapporteur, Mrs Jane Heitmann, is in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214111217	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the debate on the old age of the Danes here in the Assembly Hall. I would also like to sign for the good cooperation with the Danish People's Party's Elder Rapporteur. We can easily find each other in the area of the elderly, because we share a common ambition that our elderly should be provided with a dignified care and care, and for us in the Left it is, and has since the change of government in 2015, been a cardinal point to ensure a dignified care for the elderly, because it was sad under the former Social Democratic-led government to follow the sidelines, after all, where 3.5 billion were cut. kr. in the municipal service framework for 2011-2015. And fortunately, the voters pointed to a bourgeois government in 2015, and with it Denmark got an elderly minister. It says something about where the focus and gravity are being put, even after the new trio government saw the light of day a few years ago. Because with the three-clover government, the elderly are one of the top priorities. I would also like to acknowledge the good cooperation with the Minister for the Elderly and the sensitivity with which I am always met when, on behalf of the Left, I come up with suggestions and ideas on how we can together ensure a dignified old age for our elderly. Most have worked through a long life and contributed to the community and the common box. Our generation of older people is very much to be thanked for the welfare that we, as well as our children, enjoy today, and that effort deserves respect. And in showing respect, we also need to ensure that our older people, both now and in the future, can face old age safely. I am immensely sad when I can read about elderly medical patients who are on public display in hospital halls, elderly people who lie for hours with a full diaper or cannot go to the toilet, or older people who eat shitty food do not bathe or just live in a home where the zeros fly around their ears. We cannot be familiar with that. We have a shared responsibility, both at Christiansborg, in the regions and all of you in the municipal councils, to ensure that no elderly people experience neither forgotten nor squeezed. Much care and care for the elderly is given priority, planned and carried out in the municipalities closest to the citizens, and the municipalities have a high degree of freedom to organise their own services locally. And that makes sense. But the hand on the heart, I'll be very sorry when we from Christiansborg make economics available, for example. to a rock map scheme that ensures that older people can go for a walk in the woods or experience a reunion with the street of childhood, and then we can hear for example. from Odense Municipality, that when the money passes to the block, the municipality expects to put an end to the system which should ensure our older people more self-determination. So it's a round, Odense. Now we have again with the stake pool agreement and the new finance agreement together with the Danish People's Party prioritised funds for the elderly area, because we have an ambition to get rid of, among other things. Loneliness, distrust, loss of courage and the recruitment challenges that we obviously have, to mention just a few areas. And a dignified old age is very much about the good old life, but what is the good old life? That's what we're gonna find out together. Because it is about the transition from an active working life to an active retirement life, it is about your family and relatives, it is about strong communities with rewarding activities and about a dignified death. I could fill a whole speech with initiatives from both the Finance Act and the Rate Pool, which have already been taken so that we can face our old age safely. The dignity billionaire, a pool to ensure more warm hands in the care of the elderly, a pool for new kitchens in the country's nursing homes, so that more people can feel the smell of well-prepared food, a new dementia action plan and a brand new national Knowledge Centre for dignified care for the elderly, helping older people to keep their minds on how best to ensure decent care and care for the elderly. I turned 50 last month and think it might be a long time before I get a letter from the Elders case. And I am delighted to be in the middle of life with the prospect of an old age, albeit in several years' time, but where we have already taken important steps so that both today's and the future's elderly can safely meet their old age, especially if the Danes point to a blue government after the election. Because with the economic agreement with KL alone, the service framework has been lifted by 1.7 billion. DKK, and with the 2018 Finance Act, the elderly area was the welfare area that received the most money. In conclusion, let me stress that we in the Left are fully aware of the demographic trait which may be a challenge, but hand at heart, not only must we allow our economy to be governed by the excel spreadsheets of the djøfs, but we must also bear in mind that parameters such as better management, governance and organisation, as well as new welfare technology, cannot be translated directly into current spreadsheets, but we will reap the benefits in the long term. Once again, thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate and thank you to the older minister for the good cooperation. I welcome the Conservative People's Party, which unfortunately does not have the opportunity to be present in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214111738	Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214111744	Thank you. I would just like to say that I agree with the rapporteur, because I am also being voted out when it is the case that I hear about overcrowding in medical departments and filled diapers and zeroes flying around my ears. I am also saddened by the fact that I note that there is no time for a tour of the forest. But you can only spend the money once. So I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree with the fact that the figures of the Finance Minister's own figures show that demographic development requires more money to be allocated to the elderly than the government itself has prioritised in the Finance Act, and that this means that more and more elderly people have to share the same amount of money too little.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214111821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214111827	Now I do not know exactly what kind of question or answer the SF rapporteur is referring to or referring to. I can only note that, with this government, well-being has been greatly improved. In the health sector alone, we have added more than 5.5 billion. kr. The municipal service framework has been lifted by 2.5 billion. kr. So there is no doubt at all that this government has given priority to our common welfare, including for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214111854	Here you go, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214111857	But I do not really deny what the government has the Workers' Industry Council estimate that the government has underfunded welfare by 2 billion. kr. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214111919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214111924	Now the rapporteur says that more elderly people are demanding more money. I don't think you can make one of these into a comparison. I think there are a lot of things to be taken into account. I actually mentioned a few of them in my rapporteur's speech. It is about better governance, it is about governance, it is about organisation, but it is also about how to do things, for example. in use new welfare technology. And then you should not forget that yes, there are more older ones, but more older ones are healthier for longer periods of life. This means that the care requirement, the care gravity, is not necessarily the same as the one we knew just maybe 5 or 10 years ago. Fortunately, we live longer, but we are also healthier for longer periods of life. That's the good story.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112008	Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112014	And the good story is precisely in what the rapporteur now calls spreadsheets and rather worse djøferi, even though it comes from the accounting machines of the Ministry of Finance, on which the government itself bases its policy. In other words, would the rapporteur not just confirm that when the Ministry of Finance calculates what is needed in relation to demography, one looks at healthy ageing and one looks at efficiency in the public sector? These things are expected to happen, and that is why it has been invented for the occasion when the rapporteur begins to use his time to question it. The rapporteur is very pleased to confirm this. And then I would just like to say to the rapporteur quite peacefully: I mean, yes, of course, more money is spent on welfare. In the time you've been in government, 50,000 more patients have been put in our hospitals. There have been as many more elderly people as I think correspond to the whole of Herning. That's how I think somebody put it up. But what we see locally is that every year, when they have to make budgets, municipalities have to save. And that is why I would just like to say that with this new belief, which the rapporteur of the Left has gained, that we can just do things smarter, can we get some examples that are going to live out? I mean, I mean examples of what you can do smarter tomorrow than you can do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112124	What I said in my rapporteur's speech was that the economy should not be allowed to be controlled by the excel spreadsheets of the djøfs. That's what I said. I can say to the Socialist rapporteur that I too will be extremely sad when I see examples of municipalities feeling called to save on care for the elderly, especially in view of the fact that the government has lifted the area, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. With the 2018 Finance Act, the elderly area was the area that was given the most welfare crowns, if I may say so. I have also mentioned that we have lifted the health care it is kr. or more than 5,5 billion kr., since the Left Government joined in 2015. So I'm gonna be a shame when you're out in the municipalities giving priority to that way. And, of course, it is important to maintain that it is a municipal priority how to use the funds out there. However, we have greatly supported the municipal economy with funds from Christiansborg for rock card schemes, dignity billions, and I could mention many other initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112233	Thank you. Mrs. Astrid Krag, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112238	It is a government rapporteur who is completely dismissing responsibility. In other words, the municipalities do not make their decisions and their priorities in a vacuum. Most recently, it has emerged that under the current government, welfare has been underfunded by 4.4 billion. kr., and that is therefore a lot of money both at the beginning and at the end of the month, and also when it comes to responsibility for our older citizens. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: does the rapporteur of the Left not even recognise that the municipalities are, of course, dependent on whether we have a government that will allow enough money to go with the increasing number of elderly people, demographic pressure and the fact that more children are coming? It is not enough for there to be a little more money if there are significantly more older people, and that is what we are looking into. So is this new anti-djøf talk to be understood to mean that the Left no longer recognizes the demographic trait that the Treasury calculates it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112327	We in the Left in no way disclaim responsibility for the welfare of the Danes. On the contrary, we have gone to the task of correcting some of the sad developments which we saw under the former Socialist-led government, which were cut into the municipal service framework by 3.5 billion. kr. On the other hand, we have lifted the municipal service framework by 2.5 billion. kr. With the latest financial law for 2019, we have lifted the older area by 650 billion. kr. Year after year we have given priority to the well-being of the Danes. I don't know if I've been able to say 650 billion. kr. I meant 650 million. kr. I'm sorry, it was a statement. It's going crazy, you can get carried away with the debate. But the bottom line is that we disclaim no responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112419	Thank you. One can be so lucky that one exceeds the speaking time, and there has been a tendency to do so lately. I also recognise that this is an issue that calls for emotion, but we must be careful. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112432	Thank you. I think, of course, that the image that the rapporteur of the Left draws from the way in which daily life is for many older people was credible; this is because many of the elderly, who are too weakened to cope with cleaning themselves, live by the fact that there are many zero-man and crumbs and, for some, also very dirty in their homes. We have also seen a development in which, in fact, it has become the norm in just a few years. In more than half of the country's municipalities, you get an offer to bathe only once a week, if you can't handle it yourself, and that says something about that, despite the fact that funds have been added, I recognize that there is a lot of money that is just bad, not followed at all by the needs that are out there. This is due to the fact that there are more and more elderly people in this country, including more and more elderly people, who need help to cope with showering, cleaning, getting bought in, getting out, etc. I would therefore really like to ask whether the rapporteur from the Left does not recognise that we cannot keep up with the needs that are out there today and that is why the reality, as the rapporteur from the Left describes it, appears when you visit some of the elderly who are unable to do their own cleaning, bath and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112543	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112550	There is a lot of good going on in the care of the elderly, and we have a lot of talented people employed, who every day go to work and do all kinds of commendable work. But we have also seen examples of older people who have been lying too long in bed with a wet diaper, or older people who are not getting cleaned properly. I mentioned some examples in my rapporteur's speech. Yes, we have seen examples of this, and that is why among other things. We from the Left, together with the other parties in the government and together with the Danish People's Party, have set the goal of lifting the bar, and we have done so with the Finance Act, and we have done so by giving priority to an elderly minister who is solely concerned with the whole area of the elderly. We have lifted the municipal service framework with the financial agreement with KL for 2019, and with that agreement alone we lifted the service framework with 1.7 billion. kr. So we very much recognise that there is also a need for an economy and that an economic focus is needed. That is why, year after year, together, we have given financial priority to care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112702	Thank you. That is the last brief remark made by Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112706	The rapporteur of the Left is now trying to make it a question of a few examples. That's the norm! This is the norm when the Elders Case has examined what service standards are around the municipalities today. Compared to how often you shower, it is most common that it is only once a week. It is not just a single municipality here or a single municipality there. And it's not about me ignoring the work done by employees in the care of the elderly, because it's not about them deciding what the standard of service is, because it's given by the municipality, and it's given by how much money you have for the task. It is fine that there will be more money, but there will be a massive increase in older people, and that is why it will be the norm out there today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112748	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112750	That is exactly what I said in my rapporteur's speech, namely that we have a joint responsibility to ensure dignified care for the elderly. We politicians at Christiansborg have a responsibility to ensure a good financial framework, and the municipalities have an enormous responsibility to fill that framework and give priority to the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112812	Thank you. And then there are no further brief comments to Mrs Jane Heitmann. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214112822	Thanks to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative for today's debate on what measures the government will initiate before the turn of the year to ensure that the Danes can safely meet their old age. This is a relevant and topical question, and I think it's quite okay that we ignore that before the turn of the year. I know that it may take a long time to have a case promoted in the Parliamentary Chamber, so I think the intentions have been that we had the debate a little earlier this year. It's a headline that can contain a lot of themes. The two themes that I have chosen to draw on are, on the one hand, the question of retirement, which we know is very important for many Danes when they think about their future old age and, on the other hand, the question of the elderly care that is for those of us who will need it. A few days ago, I read a headline at Avisen.dk, where 30-year-old Chris Jakobsen, who works as a slaughterhouse worker, said that he cannot keep to the pace at which he works until he turns 73. And he said that he dreams of an old age where he can play ball with the grandchildren, but he doubts that is possible when he has the prospect of working until he is 73 years old. Denmark seems to have Europe's highest retirement age, and this is due to the settlement reached by the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party that the retirement age will continuously increase. This will particularly affect those who have hard, physically debilitating jobs. Chris, who was in the newspaper the other day, cleaning assistants, ground and concrete workers and also social and health workers, who are also some of those working in the area of the elderly. When the LO asks out into the population, it turns out that there is in fact only one in five Danes • so just about 20 per cent. It is therefore one of the places where we really experience an insecurity when we look into our own personal future. As I mentioned in today's debate, 3F decided yesterday that we should introduce differentiated retirement age. We have long believed this in the Enhedslisten, and we have also proposed that we should set up a system in which, after 40 years in the labour market, we have the opportunity to withdraw. I have to say that in no way does the government meet the Danes who fear for their old age. On the contrary, it has been announced in the past that it wanted to raise the pensionable age even more than has otherwise been agreed. Fortunately, it has been thwarted by Enhedslisten, SF, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. But the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party are still behind the settlement, which means that Chris has the prospect of a retirement age of 73 years. Another point that determines whether we can meet our old age safely is the care of the elderly, which has also been the subject of part of today's debate. Here too, I regret to say that it is seriously lagging behind. More than half of the Danes, who are over 40 years old, are insecure about whether elderly care will be sufficient when they need it sometime. The security measurement from 2017 showed this. And that is understandable, because the welfare of the elderly is under strong pressure. Since 2008, more than 6 million home help hours have disappeared, despite the fact that 23 per cent have arrived in the same period. more older than 65 years of age. So, the curve for the number of older people goes up, and the curve for the number of home help hours goes down. This simply means that there are weakened elderly people who do not receive the help they need. And for the elderly, who receive home help, there are longer and longer between visits. Today it has become common for elderly people who need help showering only to have one bath once a week. And it's a development that's accelerated just in the last three years. In nursing homes, quality is also under intense pressure. In some municipalities, the manning is so poor that the employees' ability to provide dignified care and care is impaired. And we know it's common that as a night shift in a nursing home, you are responsible for about 24 residents. And there are also examples of having sole responsibility for up to 42 residents. It is to a large extent the elderly who have paid for the economic crisis, both with a later retirement age and less well-being, and unfortunately the latest financial law does not provide much help. It will mean a further reduction in the care of the elderly, because the economy of the municipalities will not match the many more elderly people who will need help in the coming years. I have to say that if I have to say something positive, it was an honest announcement from the Danish People's Party to Everything, when it was said that the welfare of these finance negotiations was not the first priority. It will be very much the weakest elderly who pay the price for that priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214113350	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix. Then we must move forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance, and it is even happening here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214113409	With this question, I think the questioners are making a little too much demands on the government. I agree that the government must ensure that there is a safe and dignified care for the elderly, but to ensure that the Danes can safely meet their old age seems like a rather difficult task to solve, especially before the turn of the year. It is difficult because old age tends to bring with it various inevitable physical and mental challenges. For example, there is a natural ageing of the body, which is impossible to avoid, and I have not mentioned lifestyle diseases and age-related diseases at all. In recent years the incidence of lifestyle diseases has been increasing, but this is due, among other things, to. a positive phenomenon, namely that we live longer. With age, there are diseases and various illnesses, so it is literally impossible to guarantee a safe old age for all Danes. After all, old age also ends, and it should be as worthy as possible. But what we can do and what the Liberal Alliance believes we can do, among other things. should do in relation to the challenges of old age, is to ensure that our present and future older people receive help that reflects their different needs. We must ensure that there is a safe and dignified care for the elderly. We must ensure that the elderly have a great freedom of choice when it comes to services that can meet the needs of the individual. Older people must have the opportunity to live the life they want, and we have a responsibility to minimise the physical and practical constraints that our older citizens may have. In fact, I think that our government, among other things. together with Dansk Folkeparti, has delivered on the above and given the elderly area a much needed boost, among others. with an action plan for the good elderly, with a budget of 167.6 million. kr. for e.g. a good transition to the elderly and a targeted effort for the weakest elderly, as well as a large number of coherent efforts for 36 million. kr. against the misfortune and loneliness of our older fellow citizens. And with the latest Finance Act, an additional 650 million has been set aside. kr. to alleviate loneliness and displeasure in the elderly. The elderly have also been given greater freedom of choice under this government, among others. with the list of nursing homes and the clip card for nursing homes, which improves the freedom of choice of elderly people. The clip card can allow our elderly to dispose of clips that can go for extra help and support during the week or for activities beyond the existing care effort. In the Liberal Alliance, therefore, we are convinced that in recent years the area of the elderly has been given a significant but also much needed boost, including that of the elderly. I should like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals. The Liberal Alliance therefore supports the proposal for adoption which was read out by Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214113745	Thank you. There are brief comments, and first it is from Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214113754	I am rather sorry that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur thinks that this is too much to ask for, because it is a quote from the Minister for the Elderly. It was the ambition of the Minister for the Elderly, with his role as Minister for the Elderly, that the Danes can meet their old age with confidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214113807	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214113812	But I also believe that the rapporteur saw the irony in it, that it was a little much to ask for Danes to be able to meet their old age safely, but that we can provide for a safe care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214113821	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214113825	Thank you. I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur because in the Liberal Alliance there is a lot of talk about the public sector going further on the gallon. This in itself is not desirable and I do not know whether the Liberal Alliance wants zero growth or even negative growth in the public sector, but perhaps the rapporteur can clarify that. But I would like to ask specifically about the 3,700 fewer full-time employees in the care of the elderly: has it been seen with Liberal Alliance glasses a good development that since Lars Løkke Rasmussen became prime minister, we have had 3,700 fewer full-time employees in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214113854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214113858	We clearly recognise that there is a shortage, among other things. Sosu assistants, and that we have a challenge there, there is no doubt, but there is no doubt that you cannot put this up to you. When these statements are made about how many are missing, both by people and by investments and bets, only one side is always included in the projection. It only includes how many older people are coming, but it does not include developments in technological innovation, in smarter workflows, in healthy ageing. You don't count those things, and you have to do that when you're planning.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214113935	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214113939	This is a review of what has happened in the number of full-time employees from Lars Løkke Rasmussen became prime minister until today. So there is not so much projection uncertainty. There you can see that there are 3,700 fewer full-time employees in our care for the elderly, and I would just like to ask that, i.e. whether the Liberal Alliance would like to see a lower growth in the public economy than the one we have. As one question: does the Liberal Alliance believe that we should have zero growth or even negative growth? Secondly, does the Liberal Alliance's elder rapporteur believe that it is positive that 3,700 fewer full-time employees have entered our elder care since Lars Løkke Rasmussen became prime minister, among other things. With the support of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114021	I have not seen that inventory and I do not know whether it covers only health professionals or whether it also includes administrative staff in the field and gardeners and what else could be included. So I don't know. What is important is that there should be staff in the field of the subject. And even though the Liberal Alliance would like us to make the whole public sector more efficient, it is making administrative efficiency more effective and not the warm hands. So that's what we want. There must be the warm hands as there should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114101	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114104	Thank you. I was also a little worried that the rapporteur sounded like she was about to cancel the political ambition that we can also work with security and should do it yes, it was just before I went on Christmas holidays, not least in view of the fact that the rapporteur himself points out that when we get older, we also get sicker. It just comes with old age that something comes to us, and it also means that more people will need the hospital, and that more people will end up needing care and care, especially when we are also growing older. We know that. The demography says that right in front of us there are very, very many older people over 80 years of age, and we need to be able to take care of them. So, of course, I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that the ambition to ensure that the economy follows demographic developments should be an expression of the need to do so in order to keep up with demographic developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114212	It is quite clear that we are taking demographic developments into account. In fact, when we went to elections last time, the Liberal Alliance was the party that had devoted the most money to demographic development, 26 billion. kr., and I guess they were brand funded, every penny. So we are very much aware of demographic developments, and that is also why we have helped this government to give priority to the elderly as much as we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114241	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114244	I think it's a long way to 26 billion. kr. to the old people's area during this reign. Is that not about the amount that the President of the Liberal Alliance is bragging about giving tax relief during this period of government? Because it is precisely true, as the rapporteur says, that this is a priority. You can choose to use the money for tax relief, or you can choose to use it for welfare, and welfare is also about expecting demographic development, so that we can also allocate more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114318	It is quite true that we are very proud to have relieved the taxes of over 20 billion. kr., and it probably wouldn't have happened if the Liberal Alliance hadn't been part of the government. We're really, really happy about that. With regard to the 26 billion. kr. For demographic development, if our whole plan had been implemented, they would have had 26 billion. kr. Been there too. Unfortunately, however, we do not have 90 mandates alone. And with regard to the matter of putting the tax down or providing for better welfare, it is again the totally wrong premise, because it is not either-or; it is both- and. In fact, it is each other's opposites, because if we do not lower the world's highest tax level, there will be no growth and prosperity and afford welfare in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114411	Mrs. Stine Brix, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114417	I just want to ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur: does Mrs May-Britt Kattrup honestly think that spending money on, for example, a better priority? to lighten the tax on private aircraft and yachts than in the area of older people? Well, I simply do not understand the priority that I understand has been one of the priorities of the Liberal Alliance in relation to this financial law. But it must be an expression of the fact that it is actually a better way of spending the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114446	As I have just explained once, lower taxes and better welfare are not each other's contradictions at all. If there is to be money for welfare in the future, it requires growth in the private sector. The only place that can come from money to welfare is from the private sector. And if we do not lower the world's highest tax burden, there will not be enough growth in private business to create the prosperity that will afford welfare in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114515	Then it's Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114518	Then perhaps the rapporteur would also be kind enough to explain to me what it is like for us to have more welfare, for example. to the elderly, by the fact that the treasure has now been lowered on light typhists and private aircraft.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114532	Exactly the two tax cuts may not give more money to the elderly in isolation, and so there will be many things. If you pick one thing out of context, just the little thing may not have a direct impact on anything else. But if you look at the whole package, it's connected. But there is also another thing about tax relief: it is about pure justice and envy. We want to get rid of this. Because some may have taken a great financial risk, have worked a certain part of their body out of their pants and have thus been able to afford to buy a boat, then one should not be specially taxed on it because some others are jealous of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114618	Then we can thank Mrs May-Britt Kattrup and welcome Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214114628	Thank you. It is heartbreaking that there are older people in Denmark who live lonely lives with a sense of senselessness and helplessness. It is sad that there are older medical patients in Denmark who are sent back and forth between municipalities and hospitals, for example. without getting a proper rehabilitation plan and without being seen as the people they are, with the individual needs they have. First of all, I would like to thank you for calling today's debate on the question of elderly people being able to meet their old age safely. It is important and there are many things to address, as we have heard from the other rapporteurs here today. I would like to start by taking the word safe as a starting point. TrygFonden's study of last year, which has been mentioned earlier today, showed that 54 per cent. of citizens over 40 years of age do not feel safe, but feel uneasy about the care they have in store for the elderly. Security is a popular word that is often heard in the media. Security is something the vast majority of us know about, but what does it mean? There is no clear definition of security. What is defined as safe for one, in one's situation, may be quite different for the other. But that being said, it should be safe, for example. to be admitted to a hospital in Denmark, and fortunately it is also in most cases except if you like. I'm in the hallway. The vast majority of people will probably experience this as insecure and unworthy, because they have no form of privacy. In fact, Danish research also shows that relatively speaking, 9% die. multiple patients when a hospital is overcrowded. There must be economics for you as an elderly patient not to spend your time in a bed at once, and there must be the possibility that as few as possible end their time in a bed in the hospital. In 2016, 43% died. of the Danes during hospitalization. Professor Frede Olesen of the Institute for Public Health recently told Politiken some things about safety and disease. He said that anxiety and insecurity can be symptomatic, and he also said: "We have had a health service which for many years has been focused on a biomedical optimization of the treatment. This priority has been at the expense of security, trust and contact with the patient. In recent years, however, there has been a change: the professional community has been given a sharper look at the need for a better balance..... I really hope he is right about that, but there are still challenges. It is of no use that older patients spend all their time helpless and inactive in a bed when they, for example, spend their time in a bed. is in a nursing home or in a hospital. A Danish study shows that elderly patients who could enter without assistance when they were hospitalized spend 17 out of 24 hours in bed during a stay of 17 out of 24 hours! In addition to what it must mean for their well-being, it means quite specifically that they lose muscle strength and function during admission, which in turn means that when they come home from the hospital they have a worse balance, a worse mobility; that they have a worse ability to cope with ordinary daily activities, and that can result in a risk of falling accidents and social isolation and loneliness. And we have to do something about that. We must help older people to be as active as possible, even in hospital. It is incredibly important that we find out what we are doing about the well-being challenge we have in relation to our older fellow citizens. It cannot be right that one should end one's days by not thriving, feeling lonely and insecure and not having a good life. However, I would also like to welcome the fact that we have done some good things today and that we have achieved some good things together. I am delighted, for example. that we have focused on reducing the use of antipsychotic medicines; that we have focused on the elderly with grief, so that they can get good offers, for example. psychological assistance; that we have started work to get dementia-friendly rooms in hospitals, which means that we also have patient-friendly rooms in hospitals, and that is really, really good. In the alternative, we believe that a holistic approach is needed: to listen to each elderly person, to adapt efforts to the individual elderly person, to include social components in the effort, to focus on preventive action and to involve relatives and civil society to a much greater extent. Everyone has earned a safe and good old age, and we, who are here today, must do everything we can to ensure that our older ones receive it. There are still problems to be resolved. Thank you for the debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115148	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Susanne Eilersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115202	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. We in the Danish People's Party, like the rapporteur himself, are very concerned about some of the things that are happening, including in the field of health. It was like the rapporteur's main point here, and this is perhaps the main focus of attention to what is happening at home in the municipalities and the care of the elderly. I would then like to ask the rapporteur, on the basis of the proposal for adoption included by the rapporteur, which says that there are concerns about the large differences in service levels between municipalities, what does the rapporteur intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115229	I heard yesterday, I think it was, a researcher from VIVE who told us what it really is that happens when we talk about all this intimacy and add more and more to the municipalities. We are, of course, in favour of local government, but what is the problem, if you add more and more to the municipalities, is that it is not actually being investigated what is being done in the municipalities. And it was someone from VIVE who said that. She said that there is actually no research on what it is that you do when someone, for example. is discharged from a hospital. What kind of service level is that? What kind of treatment do you get? What she said was that there, for example. isn't a doctor. There are many nurses and sosu assistants, but there are for example. not doctors, and that is one of the issues that needs to be tackled if you want to get more out to the municipalities, namely that you have to make sure that you know what is being done in the 98 municipalities. And I think we should make sure of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115327	Thank you. Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115330	I didn't really think I heard an answer to my question. Because it is the case that we see that there is a great difference in the level of service around the municipalities, which the rapporteur is also raising a concern about in this proposal for adoption. But I did not really hear what the rapporteur is going to do about this difference in the municipalities. I mean, the municipalities get money that they can then give priority to the elderly. Some then choose to prioritise more money for other things, for example. Stadiums or integration than you do for older people. It is, of course, up to the municipalities because the municipalities invoke the right to have municipal autonomy. Will the rapporteur impose sanctions if the municipalities fail to meet some uniform quality standard?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115421	I answered the question in this way and the answer was that we do not know whether there is a uniform treatment of the people who are being discharged, for example. from a hospital, and my proof of that was that VIVE, who is researching this, said that we have no evidence of that. Because we don't actually know how to treat people when they come home from the hospital. It can be in 98 different ways. So I really think we should start by finding out before we start attacking some municipalities so as not to do it properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115451	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115457	So I just have to understand correctly: the rapporteur does not recognise the problem that the rapporteur himself proposes that Parliament should adopt is too bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115508	Again, it's such a bit of a teasing question. Yes, I also recognise that we are being told, for example. in the press that there are major differences in how older people are treated in the different municipalities. I recognise that the treatment of the elderly is not the same, the closer one gets to the municipalities and, as I said just now: there is probably, as we can see in the media, a huge difference in whether you live in a large municipality which has a large economy, or a tiny municipality that has a small economy, and perhaps many who are caring for care. So I'm just saying, why don't we try to get this right, get an overview of what our older fellow citizens are actually doing? And is there a uniformity? We don't think there is, but I think we should try to figure that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115559	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115602	I don't think it's a teasing question to ask people what they're saying. But that's okay. The rapporteur recognises that there are differences in service levels. What will the alternative do about it so that a uniform level of service can be obtained?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115618	It is as if the two rapporteurs do not hear what I am saying. I say that we know from the media that there is no uniform level of service. What I started by saying was that what we are going to do about it is that it has to be researched. We need proof of how the standard is out there. If we believe from the stories of the media and from our own meetings out there with people that there is no uniform treatment of the elderly, then we should then go out and find out what are the best examples, and then we should find out how to get it spread out to all municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115658	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karin Nødgaard, DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115700	Well, there's no mess in this. That is quite specific, because it is quite important for us to know where the alternative is in this debate. The rapporteur says in his speech that there is a great deal of respect for local self-government, and so we have in the Danish People's Party too, but we are also aware that there are some challenges in relation to the fact that we do not, for example, have the right to vote in local elections. If Christiansborg's funds have been earmarked, it may not be so much thought that they will be able to live up to it. It is true that the proposal for adoption states that there are major differences in service levels. Now I hear the rapporteur say that it is not quite certain that that is the reality. That's fair enough. But if it turns out that there isn't this uniformity, what will the alternative do to ensure that this uniformity comes, also so that we can ensure that there will still be municipal autonomy in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115756	I'm gonna answer that again. What I think is ridiculous is when you say that I do not entirely agree with the proposal for adoption that I am part of, because of course I am. But that is why I can have a wish that we should come closer to obtaining evidence of this. Now that we can see through the media, through our own meetings with reality out there, with employees that it seems as if there are big differences, I always think you should start by making sure that we have a knowledge of it. Especially when we all experience that it is being pushed more and more into the municipalities • responsibility is being pushed more and more over to municipalities, which actually do not have the skills to do so immediately. There is something we have gone away from, where we have closed some small hospitals and put it into some big central hospitals, but now we are pushing it back into the municipalities. And then we have to help the municipalities to take on it, or we have to find a way to create small health houses that can take on responsibility. So we must then take steps to ensure that we are given the same treatment and that we are comfortable coming back to our municipality when, for example, we get the same treatment. is discharged from a hospital.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115909	Then it's Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115910	Well, I totally agree that it should be safe when you get back. And I am sure there is also something that needs to be done, because there are also too many differences in how the individual citizen feels about printing that he is like being taken in when, for example, he is taken in. comes home in your own home. Specifically, what will the alternative do to get this knowledge that you are looking for and that you have heard about in the media, but where you may not be quite sure? What are you gonna do? And when you have that knowledge, what can we expect from the alternative? Because I sense that the alternative is actually interested in something happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214115944	In other words, we find it worrying that we are pushing more and more into the municipalities without being sure that the municipalities have the expertise or the economic basis needed to deal with people who often have very specialized needs. After all, we see problems with around the municipalities. And as I said before, there's a huge difference between whether you're a big town or not. The City of Copenhagen is about the size of 30 of the smallest municipalities, I recently heard someone who said. And that means that there is an opportunity to build up some expertise that you don't have in a small municipality, where you have 24,500 inhabitants, just like where I was in the municipal council. So we have to make sure that we help these municipalities get that expertise, and we have to make sure from here and that we also help them financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214120039	Then we thank Mrs Pernille Schnoor. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Lotte Rod, and that is from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214120050	Thank you. When I get old, I dream of living in a place where there are nice people, where there are cozy, where there are smells of food, where there is music and dancing, where there are animals, where there is nature and a garden, and where there are visits of children from the local kindergarten or school and where there is just time at all. This is not the case everywhere, and there has been less money per person. elderly over the years. When I was thinking about what I should say in this question debate that the Danish People's Party has raised, I thought: Perhaps this is where we should try to expose the Danish People's Party, because you talk a lot about the elderly, and you also do things on the finance law for the elderly, but at the same time there is just a concrete cut because the money does not follow. There's less money coming in. older, since the Danish People's Party has begun to make finance laws. Since your municipal reform, it has fallen by 25%. It has fallen from the fact that in the past there were 55,000 kroner, to the fact that there are now 41,000 kroner. per older. That's reality. It may be reasonably frustrating as a politician, when you sometimes have the experience that we spend an incredible amount of time talking about some things in here, and sometimes we pick around in something that is small compared to what is absolutely fundamental. I would therefore like to say what the Radical Left would like to do. I am very concerned that we are beginning to think welfare in a new way. What does welfare really mean? Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. And for me, it's about being something for someone, and it can't just be done in time. And it's not the same for all people either. That is why we have an important task in actually putting what the public is doing on an equal footing with everything else that is important to one, so that we are based on what we ourselves need and that we get the help to do so. But it is also about time and getting the basic help that you need. It takes money, but it also requires that there are enough employees, and therefore it is part of our whole discussion that right now we are just too few people in Denmark to take the work that is and that we therefore need to recruit from abroad. Then we are back to the Finance Act, because the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said: we have to negotiate with others. Yes, all parties in the Danish Parliament do, but the Danish People's Party has the very special role of giving them what they want with this government when they enter into the financial law negotiations. We can see year after year that what is important for the Danish People's Party also gets. That is why I am a little surprised that the motion for a resolution that has been tabled proudly states that 650 million have been found. kr. in the Finance Act for the Elderly, at the same time as the Finance Act has chosen to spend 750 million. kr. On an island. Then I heard that the alternative said, "Don't ask such teasing questions." Well, for me, it's not actually a joke, for me it's actually quite serious, because I get angry that I, who happily pays my taxes, have to look at you choosing to squander our money to a desert island while there's going to be empty buildings. Instead, you could spend the money on what's important. I mean, I am primarily in politics because I dream that all children should have a good life, and that requires that we have more talented adults for our children. You could have had a lot of educators for this money; you could also have gotten a lot of electric cars or you could have had significantly more time for the elderly if that was what the Danish People's Party had prioritized. That is why it just remains for me to hope that we will soon have a new direction and a new government that can give priority to solving the real problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214120534	Thank you very much. There are brief comments. It's Jane Heitmann, Left, who's in charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214120538	Thank you. The Radical Left rapporteur says that politics, often at least, is an expression of a debate, and I fully agree with that, that it is often necessary to get the ends together. Under the former Social Democratic government, of which the Radical Left was a part, i.e. in the period from 2011 to 2015, the municipal service framework was cut by 3.5 billion. kr. We must also assume this in some way is an expression of a debate which was, after all, more parties in the government. I would just like to ask the Radical Left whether it is a priority that you are proud of.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214120620	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214120621	We had a clean-up work after the previous government, which had for years failed to make reforms, and therefore the economy had to be corrected. And yes, it will be the hallmark of the Radical Left at any time that we will have the economy under control. It is also very thought-provoking that the money that the government and the Danish People's Party are distributing now is very much due to the reforms that the Radical Left has helped to make. So it may well be that the Left does not like the fact that sometimes some unpopular economic reforms have to be made, but that is what it takes for us to have money for what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214120659	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214120701	It sounds almost like a joke to hear the rapporteur of the Radicals say that we on the Left should have failed to make reforms, but let it be. I merely asked if you were proud of that priority, namely that you cut 3.5 billion. kr. in the municipal service framework. Then we could not get an answer to that. Therefore, I will try to ask a little further in the same direction as the rapporteur himself started out with, namely that politics is often the expression of a debate. The former Socialist-led government, of which the Radicals were part, also chose to lower the top tax. Now I'm just trying to ask again: is it a priority that you're proud of?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214120745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214120747	In the Radical Left, we are in favour of changing our tax system. We think that there should be less tax at work and, on the other hand, more tax on what we want less, namely pollution, but, of course, what we cannot just move, namely housing. We will continue to work for the tax on work to come down, both at the bottom, but we have also helped ease it at the top, but it must be socially balanced. So just to remind the Left a little of the story: how many years was it now that the warning lights started blinking until the Left started looking at reforms? It took an incredible amount of time, and that is why some of the major reforms only came into being when we then stepped in and were allowed to vote it through, because the Left had failed to make the reforms while there were good times. And that is the responsibility that we in the Radical Left would also like to take on now. Now that there are good times, we must not just wait for things to go badly again, but we must prepare ourselves for the fact that there is also money for what we want in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214120904	Thank you. There is a whole range of questioners, so it would be very good if we were aware of speaking time and so on. It's sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214120913	Thank you. I wish it were the Danish People's Party that decided everything in the Finance Act. Unfortunately, it is not as I know it is. But it is true: politics is a matter of meeting things. At the time an S-R-SF government was created, there were two parties that went to the negotiations with the desire for an annual public growth of 1.4%. It ended at 0.8%. with the adoption of the Budget Act. The two parties were the Social Democrats and the Socialist People's Party, and one could understand that the compromise was at the very most that you just ate what the Radicals thought, so it ended up at 0.8%. But we want to see lower growth in the Radical Left, and that is why it is rather nice to stand here and accuse us of being evil in the public sector, who actually promise the budgets for the elderly. It doesn't have a team in real life. In concrete terms, what the Radical Left is really happy about is spending 36 billion. kr. The Radical Left considers that 36 billion. kr. Does everything, compared to private planes and everything else, pale in relation to what we spend on this? Does the Radical Left think that this is a good way to use the Danish tax dollars?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121037	No, I think it's too much money. I think there are more people who have to work and support themselves and pay taxes, which is why it is also the Danish People's Party that has not only the stupidest but also the most expensive view in this context, because the Danish People's Party thinks that people should not take an education, should not take a job and pay taxes, but that they should be supported all their lives while they are here in Denmark before they can return home. It is the most expensive view of all, so if the Danish People's Party were really concerned that we should have more money for other things, then it is just getting started and ensuring good integration that makes people get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121120	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121122	You can live in such a world where you just say that people just have to work, and then we can deny the fact that in the last 30 years it has just turned out that it is not going to happen. No matter what you do, it's not gonna happen. Integration plan after integration plan has shown that this is not going to happen. So I just have to say, when it is said that this is an expensive plan, that the plan that the Radical Left has brought to the market ensures that right now we are spending 36 billion. kr. Every year, billions we could have spent on a more dignified care for the elderly. Does the Radical Left think that the priorities in this area are going very well?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121157	It's actually going well. There are more people who come to work, and those who are about to destroy it are the Danish People's Party, which now says that people are not going to work at all. The Danish People's Party insists that people should be supported by the public, and it is a human disaster that you cannot do anything, but it is also the most expensive solution for society. And that is why we are just back to the Finance Act: Why is it that the Danish People's Party has again chosen to spend our money on a deserted island instead of prioritising the money for the elderly who could benefit from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121236	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121238	Thank you. I note that in his opening speech the rapporteur says that it wants to expose the Danish People's Party. I do not quite understand that expression, and I do not think there was as much exposure as that. And if anyone could reveal anything about what we stand for, that is actually what we are doing today, by saying: we are actually putting the elderly on the agenda. We must remember this: that is what is on today's agenda. I also regret that the rapporteur began to talk about the stupidest views we have. I do not think that is how we usually talk about the Radical Left when they give their views on political positions. However, when I sit and look through the Financial Bill for 2019, I actually think that DF has included several things in the agreement that has been reached. The focus is on loneliness, grief, suicide, malnutrition, something about sosu assistants, something about the working environment, something about outward-looking behaviour towards employees in the care of the elderly, and of course we have also focused on it around the disability area, where there is accompanying blind people over 67 years of age. So I think we've done a lot over all the years, and this was just the Financial Act for 2019. I would really like to know whether the rapporteur is not able to acknowledge this and, in the same vein, to make a statement on what radicals have actually done in government in order to improve the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121355	I would like to acknowledge that the Danish People's Party does things in the Finance Act for the elderly. That's what I said in my speech. What is the problem is that while some initiatives are being taken, they are cutting away from what is absolutely fundamental. If you do not pursue an economic policy that means that the economy follows when there are more children and more older people, then the reality is in the municipalities that they start every single budgeting by cutting back. That is why, if you look at the Radical Left's financial bill, we propose that you finance more children and older people. Because we live in a time when we have the money for it, and then I find it strange that the Danish People's Party does not give priority to doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121443	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121444	That was quite an answer to one part of what I asked about before. But I clearly need to get a statement from the Radical Left about what the Radical Left has actually done. I know that the rapporteur is very fond of the area of children, and I think it is a good thing that the rapporteur mentions some things in relation to it, and there is a great deal about the area of foreigners. Respect for the fact that you have the views you have on them, I do not imply at all that there is any problem in the fact that you come and argue as Radicals. However, as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, I also have a need to know what has been done by the Radical Left to raise standards, to raise the whole area of the elderly. I would like a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121533	We want to give priority to the fact that the money goes hand in hand with demographic developments. For what we basically believe in is that it is not a question of getting out of the budget negotiations and standing in front of the glass door and necessarily presenting something that is new, if at the same time you have cut the core. And I find that right now there is pressure on what is core welfare. That is why I think there is a task in moving the focus back on what is real welfare and which just requires the boring, namely that there is more time in the municipalities. That was one part. The second part is that we want to see welfare in a new way, where it is less done in minutes and more is based on the individual's own wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121623	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121627	Thank you. To squander money, to make stupid suggestions and to expose people is a bit of a rapporteur's speech we have here, and the money can only be spent once, as I said. It should not be a secret that we in the Danish People's Party think that an incredible amount of money has been wasted for very, very many years in the field of integration and aliens. And, of course, we fear that if the Radicals are allowed to influence a government again that they had four years ago, we will waste the money even more. Then it's not 36 billion. We are going to spend a year on refugees and immigration, but that is much more money, and where will that money come from? After all, they can only be taken from all the other welfare areas, from the elderly, from the children's area, for which the rapporteur himself is passionate. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur would help to squander a little more money for our older people and so little less in the area of integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121730	Yeah, it's in our financial law game. We think that more money should be given priority now that there are more children and more older people. But if we want to spend less money on foreigners, it requires that we do what works, and that is to ensure that people take an education and get to work. Because when people are in jobs, they are not, on the one hand, supported by the public, and, on the other hand, they pay taxes to our treasury. That is why I just repeat: the Danish People's Party has the most expensive view in this area, because it is the policy of the Danish People's Party that people are not allowed to work and are not allowed to pay taxes, but that they should be supported by the public. So I would really like to reach out to Mrs Susanne Eilersen and say: yes, let us work together to reduce the amount. And we do that by people getting to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121827	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121829	Have foreigners not been able to take up education in the last 30 years in Denmark? Have foreigners not been able to take jobs for the last 30 years in Denmark? Have foreigners not had every opportunity to show that they could support themselves for the last 30 years in Denmark? If you want more of the same, you get more of the same, and in the Danish People's Party we do not want foreigners to be permanent in Denmark. We want to help as long as it is, and then they have to be sent home. Why is it that the rapporteur thinks that when you offer more of the same, you suddenly get something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121911	It's not the same thing anymore. We've changed the approach. We can see that we had not made enough demands, which is why we have turned the integration effort on our head and said that it is important that people get to work right away, instead of spending many years learning Danish and only at a very late stage perhaps getting to it there with jobs. And we can see that it's working. The new figures show that more people are going to work, and that is why I really think it is a very strange timing on the part of the Danish People's Party that it is now that people are beginning to say that people should not work. Because it is actually now that we are succeeding, and if we get more people to work, there will also be more money, both for more educators for our children, but also for more time for our elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214121959	Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122001	Now I was mentioned in the rapporteur's speech, so I just thought I had to take the floor. I have not spoken at any time about what the rapporteur should be asking questions about. I have said that I did not want to ask my own teases. So I just want to make that clear. The reason I said this is because I think that there has been a lot of campaigning going on. That is how I see it in this debate, and I think it may be a little too bad for the elderly who are looking at it, that we should talk so much integration. I am well aware that things are connected, that money can only be spent once, but we have talked about a great deal of integration here today instead of talking about that we actually often do some good things together, and instead of trying to find each other and say: what is it that is needed for the Danes to be able to meet their old age safely? And I can conclude by asking: what is it that Radicals want us to do in order for the Danes to be able to meet their old age safely?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122059	The Radical Left, on the one hand, wants the money to come with when there are more children and older people and, on the other hand, wants us to think about welfare in a new way. That is why I just have to say to the Alternative's rapporteur: there is and that is why it is not a teasing question for me, but a very real question, in that I am actually angry that I have paid taxes. I am happy to do so, and we have the Danish People's Party and the government that chooses to spend 750 million. kr. on a deserted island, while at the same time there are buildings that will be empty. You could have spent that money on the elderly. And when we have a discussion about whether we think we are doing well enough, and in here we agree that we want to do more for the elderly, and when the Danish People's Party comes and says that they have also prioritised it in the Finance Act, then I just have to say: if you had made another choice, if the Danish People's Party had chosen to give priority to the elderly, then you could have done so to a much greater extent than what has happened. That's reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122204	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122206	Well, I totally agree with that. I just think it is a pity that we are discussing something that says in concrete terms what action it is going to take. And then I completely agree that it is a point that a lot more money could have been prioritised by the Danish People's Party and that it is a point when the Danish People's Party has called for the discussion. But we've just spent a lot of time discussing some things that are on the edge of what it really is for a query debate. That is a point, but it would be nice if we had also discussed a great deal more about what we can do together, as we have done before, so that we can ensure a good old age for everyone. So that's just my point.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122256	But that is just a real priority. Well, politics is basically a priority of what we want to spend the money on and where we then take the money from. And when the Danish People's Party chooses not to spend the money on the elderly, but to spend it on a desert island, that is the reality we have to deal with. Many of the very good intentions, which I hear from all the rapporteurs, could indeed come about if we put action behind the words. And that is why I think it is important that we not only stand here and talk, but also show in concrete action that we are willing to actually do so in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122338	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122341	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge that the Radical Left pursued a good policy in the former government, and the rapporteur replied to Mrs Jane Heitmann that the rapporteur wanted to make more reforms, so I just want to hear what reforms the rapporteur is thinking of.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122404	We believe that the reform that we are clearly facing is the reform of raising the retirement age, and we believe that, because in this way we would both be able to afford to have more educators, to have the savings on education abolished, to have more done for our elderly, while at the same time being able to make a much more targeted effort for the elderly, who need to withdraw from the labour market earlier. Because today I find that on the one hand we do not have enough money for what we want, and on the one hand we do not actually help the elderly who need to retire earlier than they can today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122444	Mrs May-Britt Kattrup would like to make another comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122446	I just got the impression that Mrs Lotte Rod had some reforms in mind that would create an economy in the future. But maybe I misunderstood that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122501	It also gives a great deal of money if we set up the retirement age, as we have agreed, but do so before we have agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122510	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122513	Thank you. We have spent a lot of time together talking about worn-out older employees. And especially in the health sector, in the slaughterhouse sector and in the unskilled areas, we find that more and more people find it very difficult to get the senior early retirement pension, which should have counteracted the disadvantages of raising retirement age. Isn't it just getting too far out? Isn't there just a limit to what the Radicals think when we talk about retirement age and how long we can keep working? And what is the proposal of the Radicals that so many workers are standing out there saying: we cannot keep to work and we are actually afraid of the future and old age because the retirement age has become too high?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122606	I agree with the latter, as the SF rapporteur says. That is why I have two answers to it. One is that we in the Radical Left propose that all people should have an education account, which means that everyone has much better opportunities than today to retrain during their lives, because there are jobs that you cannot continue to have for many years because they are too hard. The second answer is that we want a substantial relaxation of our pension opportunities so that everyone who is worn out can retire earlier. In fact, our experience is that today it is too difficult and that we are abandoning people, because right now we sit between two chairs, namely by those who could work more, not doing so, and that those who are worn out are forced to work longer than they can. Therefore, the whole idea of making a pension reform should be that we can create better conditions for those who need it. However, the SF rapporteur must not tell anyone, because it only destroys our image as those who are the hard ones in the pension debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122708	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122710	I am in favour of preventing wear and tear in the future. But that does not change the fact that a great many of my colleagues out there, who are also my own age, are already worn out and actually find it difficult to see how they are going to keep to work until the already high retirement age. So what do we do in relation to that particular group? And if the rapporteur's answer is that they are going to a senior early retirement pension, then we are really going to tell them to put up with a poorer old age than others. We must be able to find a better answer to the many worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122750	We have said that we could see a model in which everyone who is worn out to the extent that they cannot work full-time must be allowed to retire before. This is the most far-reaching model I have heard in the Folketing. And I think that is also necessary, because it is the case that there are only very, very large differences between us. And that is why there is a need for some people to be able to work longer because they live longer, whereas there is another group that needs to retire earlier than today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122828	Thank you. I think we have been through all the parties present in relation to the radical ageing policy, and so we can say that this is a very thorough illumination we are making here. Now it's SF it's all about. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214122845	Thank you. We are becoming more and more older in the future, and the challenges are queuing. They do this first and foremost because the government has not given priority to budgets that could keep up with the increasing number of elderly people who are also increasingly in need of care and treatment. The Workers' Enterprise Council has calculated that the government's last financial law is underfunded by 2 billion. kr., if you only have to keep up with demographic trends. This can be felt, especially in the care of the elderly, and since, as you know, the hair of a bald person cannot be picked, the municipalities cannot solve the problem without the necessary means. Politics is also priorities, and while the Minister for the Elderly has paid tribute to the principle of keeping his hands off and leaving the problems to the municipalities, I am opposed to the view that we should have given priority to welfare before huge tax cuts to the richest. Having more and more elderly people share the same too little money goes beyond both the quality and the working environment of the employees. Of course, the lack of prioritising of resources for the care of the elderly also affects our ability to recruit young people for health education. The warning lights have flashed too long and we are still waiting for the long-term dimensioning strategy to stem the shortage of skilled staff both now and in the future. Here too, the Finance Act leaves no hope of lasting and lasting solutions. The lack of skilled staff could be alleviated to some extent if more health professionals would be prepared to work full time instead of part-time, but firstly, municipalities should be able to afford to give priority to full-time employment, and secondly, employees should be able to see a job where they can actually hold full-time employment. I have great respect for employees' efforts in the care of the elderly, but they are too busy. Poor standards often result in many temporary workers and many changes in the daily work schedules, and this goes beyond continuity, and this goes beyond quality. That's what the elderly feel. Study on study demonstrates that older users of home help want regular helpers who know what to do with the individual and who really have the opportunity to observe changes that need to be dealt with. It is against this background that we in the SF have proposed that care for the elderly should be organised with permanent teams so that citizens in the care of the elderly meet as few different employees as possible. We are happy to table the proposal again, because it would make sense for the elderly: it can strengthen quality and it can strengthen continuity and it can bring peace to everyday life. It is right to focus on close and coherent health care, but we must also note that we have not come a step closer to concrete results. There is a need for clear responsibilities between municipalities and regions, because there are far too many disagreements within the Ankestyrelsen to the detriment of patients. We also need to overcome the tendency to sneak user payments through the back door of care for the elderly. It is crooked and it creates inequality in health. It is good that it has been established that hospitalization in municipal emergency rooms as a substitute for longer hospitalization time must, of course, be free of charge for the citizen. I look forward to a clear clarification on this matter. In the meantime, the Minister should look at how more and more citizens also have to pay for washing clothes, cleaning the window, etc. Finally, priority needs to be given to helping relatives. Few people therefore have time for networks and courses, and relatives need tangible tools to navigate the system. The SF's proposal for a family guide still makes a great deal of sense, not least in view of the fact that the proposal has actually been prepared by a relative who has experienced errors and shortcomings in support for busy relatives, who often have to look after a job next door. Similarly, rights continue to be required to ensure that relatives have the freedom to be present in the last hours or days, so that we can ensure, as far as possible, that citizens have a dignified goodbye to life. This is just a selection of some of the agendas that we in the SF have tried to contribute during this parliamentary period, and the proposals remain for free use. We can afford it, or at least we could afford it. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for calling an important debate on an important theme, because priority needs to be given to care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214123336	With that we thank Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. There was no desire to drill any more in SF's policy on the elderly this time, and then it is the Minister for the Elderly who is now being given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214123352	Thank you very much, sir. President. Thank you for today's debate. As I mentioned at the outset, I think it is very good that we have now had the opportunity to discuss broadly here in the Danish Parliament how we can continuously improve the care of the elderly. At the same time, I am also pleased to be able to pick up on the many new initiatives that are on the way in the area of the elderly today. So again: Thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate here today. We have had a good debate on the elderly, and it has to be said that we have come a long way. As I said in my opening speech, the government attaches great importance to the area of elderly people and we put action behind words. At the financial agreement for 2019 we have concluded an agreement with the Danish People's Party for the fourth consecutive year on the Finance Act, where the elderly area has been given very high priority. Let me just repeat that the governing parties together with the Danish People's Party in recent years, among others. has ensured the annual dignity billion for more dignified care for the elderly in the municipalities, the introduction of dignity policies in all the municipalities of the country and 500 million. kr. annually for better staffing in home care, in nursing homes, nursing centres and free care homes. And with the latest financial agreement for 2019, the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has prioritised an additional 650 million. kr. to support a secure and dignified old age for weakened older people. On top of that, as I said in my opening speech, there are the many ambitious and targeted initiatives in the area of older people that we have got through in recent wage-pooling agreements, together with all the wage-pooling parties. I would like to insist that the government, with its persistent priority for the elderly, has repeatedly shown that we are aware of the challenges in the area of the elderly and that we are prepared to provide a good framework for this area. We also take responsibility for constantly developing the area both professionally and economically. It is my view that the government's policy in the area of the elderly shows that we are addressing the challenges that may be in the care of the elderly; we are not closing our eyes; we are actually acting. We will also continue to follow developments in the area of the elderly in the future, so that we keep the right focus, namely to ensure security and dignity in the care and care of our older citizens so that the elderly can meet their old age safely. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214123636	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214123641	Thank you. After all, the government parties and the Danish People's Party are united in a decision here today, such as: It is up to the municipalities to go if they fail to fulfil their obligations. And it follows up on the adoption of 7 December 2017, where the same parties say: "The Danish Parliament pleads with the municipalities that the care of the elderly is a core task for the municipalities and that the continued downgrade of the care of the elderly will be met with further earmarking of the funds available to the municipalities,...·. I have put a question to the committee this morning asking for information on the development of the cost of care for the elderly. And I just want to hear: if the answer comes back that next year is budgeted with fewer funds than will be spent this year, does the government feel obliged, on the one hand, to vote on it and, on the other hand, to vote on it in relation to going to the municipalities and asking them to give priority to the area of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214123742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214123743	Thank you. Well, of course I'm following Parliament's attitude, and I think earmarking can be a good thing. I'll follow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214123758	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214123802	To follow up on the issue of earmarking: it is actually something that the Minister says you want to hear that at least so I hear it. I think it is a little bit like this: is it such a common idea in the Liberal Alliance that you want that ear tag? That's one part of it. The second part is that the Minister said in his opening speech that the Minister has visited all 98 municipalities. I think that is very good, because then you get a good picture of what is really going on, and it is also in relation to the fact that we can see that there is a great difference between municipalities. In this context, I would like to hear: when the Minister is visiting the municipalities, it has been said that it is very important to comply with the legislation in relation to the things that need to be implemented and otherwise will
ParlaMint-DK_20181214123851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214123852	As to whether I have talked about it when I was out, I have just mentioned, if that has been the case, that it is very important. I have mentioned, of course, every time I have been out, how important it is with our policy on the elderly and what we are doing for the elderly. I have also mentioned, of course, that compliance with the Services Act is important. You have to look at the individual elderly and look at the needs of the individual and act on it. With regard to earmarking: I would like to say that, of course, we must always look at where this makes sense. It may also result in extra bureaucracy. However, as I have said, I very much follow the view of the Danish Parliament and also believe that it is essential that the municipalities in their priorities strengthen the area of the elderly in the light of the local needs that may exist. Of course, I expect the municipalities to take that responsibility too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214123956	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214123957	Thank you for your answer. So I would just like to say briefly: what is the Minister most proud of having achieved during his term of office?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124007	I would say that many things have been important. It's hard to mention one thing. For me, it has been important that we look after the relatives and I think it is important that we support the municipalities in that the elderly can have a dignified death. And then here is the last thing that we will hopefully get adopted next Wednesday, namely that we are looking at the fight against loneliness and grief and the increased number of suicides, and that we are now, together with the Danish People's Party, helping the municipalities to hold a hand under those people who are having a hard time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124047	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124049	Thank you for that, and also thank the Minister for highlighting this important issue together with the Danish People's Party. I would also like to follow up on what the Minister says, namely that the Minister has visited all 98 municipalities. After the Minister has returned home, what is it? in the form of three focus areas... the minister can see that we need to continue working on in 2019? What are these things, like employees and managers etc. like has focused on out there? Is there such a picture that there are some areas where you as an employee or head of nursing homes want us to do more in here from Christiansborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124131	It's very different what appears out there. However, I would like to say that there has of course been a concern about recruitment problems. There are many municipalities that have a problem with being able to get the employees they want. Well, I'm so glad we've taken it up here, of course, and we've taken it up with this mapping. As far as the rock map is concerned, many people have said that they have been happy to have been able to focus on the needs of individual residents and citizens for things that matter to themselves. So it has been some of the things that have been essential.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124213	Susanne Eilersen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124214	Thank you. On the tour on which the Minister has been on, has the Minister also experienced some inappropriateness, that is to say, some municipalities that did not comply with any of the legislation we have made in here? And has this given rise to the fact that in the coming year we will have to tighten up some legislation or send shepherd letters to the municipalities or do something else, or have the municipalities, in the view of the Minister, complied with the legislation that has been adopted and the levels of service we have adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124248	I hope that the municipalities will live up to this. I hope and expect that. We sent a letter to the municipalities last year before Christmas, where we entered the rock map, because there were some misunderstandings as to how much they had to register. So there were some municipalities that thought it had been very bureaucratic. There they were told what was needed, what we are asking for from in here. Perhaps it could then turn out that it was in fact the municipalities that had asked for more than what we had asked from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124325	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124328	Thank you. In addition to this, one of the major problems facing the municipalities is that it is difficult to get the money to reach when it is the case that we have more and more elderly people to share the same money too little. That's, like, 650 million. kr. We are only proposing less than half of what is actually needed if we are to keep up with demographic developments. Does the Minister for the Elderly think that we can continue to maintain the level of service that we have had so far when we constantly ask the municipalities to do more for the same or less money?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124411	There's no less money, no matter how much you say it. So it is the case that more funds are coming in, and we have seen in these last three, yes, soon four financial laws that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has strengthened the budgets out there. And that is where we have given very high priority to older people. Just in the 2018 Finance Act, the elderly area was the welfare area that received the most money: 2.7 billion. kr. So there is no doubt that the money is a priority and that it has been given to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124453	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124455	I do not question that either. My question is that the money does not go along with the fact that there will be more and more elderly people. There is no point in sending more money if it is not the case that it is also suitable for the number of elderly people who actually need help. The Minister of Finance's own calculations say that we will have relatively more elderly people, and that is why more than twice what is provided for in this year's Finance Act is needed just to meet the demographic trend. And that will mean that some will have to share less money.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124533	We are following the area and we are giving priority to the elderly. There are several different things. You can't just say that it's one for you, that if there's an older one more, then the price goes up so much. I'm here now, and I'm 66 years old myself. That does not mean that there has been more expenditure on me. And that's how many other people than me do. So we have rehabilitation, which has meant an incredible amount, we have welfare technology that we see becoming more and more widespread, and we also have older years that are becoming healthier and healthier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124603	Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124605	For me, there is no doubt that there is a lack of resources. When we can see that in just three years it has gone from being a minority of the country's municipalities to being today a majority of the country's municipalities, where you are only offered baths once a week, if you cannot do it yourself, then that is an indication that the level of service is falling. In the same way we see that it is common that as a night watchman you can be responsible for up to 24 residents. It seems to me that there is no doubt that there is a lack of resources in the care of the elderly. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, who belongs to a party, the Liberal Alliance, as a priority in the Finance Act, that we should reduce the tax on private aircraft and on light-tyachts • whether the Minister himself thinks this is a wise priority, given that we are so lacking resources in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124656	But now I have been in the area of the elderly for 43 years, and for exactly the two examples that the rapporteur gives, that is to say, that you are one person to 24 residents: that is not something that is new to me. The one bath a week is what I remember when I came in. It was like this: You had a shower a week. But, of course, that's on the basis of what the need is. Because there are also some who get two baths a day, because that is what is needed. So, well, I think it's some other stuff. And I think in and out that I'm experiencing I've still gone my hallway there that it's not in general that people think it's gotten violently worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124743	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124745	Then I just don't know if we meet the same people. For what I hear in general terms when I talk to older people, but also with people working in the care of the elderly, is that the pressure on work has risen massively and that the level of service is falling significantly. That's what we're hearing from the Elders case. They describe a development where it gets worse. In concrete terms, it can be seen that more than 6 million less home help hours are being delivered today than it did 10 years ago. And I think that's part of the reason why there's more time between showering and longer time between cleaning. I would say that I am very surprised if the Minister would stand here and claim that the standard is just good; there are no problems with lack of resources. This in no way corresponds to the picture I have of the elderly care that is around the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124839	I am not saying that there are no areas where you can do better, and I am not saying that there is nothing that is why we are constantly giving priority to this area and giving more money because, of course, there is. There are also some places where it works. You can even see within the same municipality that in some nursing homes it works and in another nursing home it doesn't work. And then you have to ask what this is all about. I think it's very, very different what this is about. However, I would like to say at all times that we must, of course, have the staff we need and, of course, people need to bathe when they need it. I think that is very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124913	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214124914	Thank you. After all, the Minister represents a party, the Liberal Alliance, which would like there to be even lower growth in public spending than what we are seeing in these years when welfare is underfunded by about 4.5 billion. kr. with the Prime Minister at the helm. It's not that I'm gonna go into some long discussion, it rarely gets really interesting. However, I would like to ask the Minister for the Elderly, just as I asked the senior minister's party colleague about the fact that there have been 3,700 fewer full-time employees in our care of the elderly since this government stepped in, that is, since Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen became prime minister, for a number of years, where there have been significantly more older people. The question is quite simple. I am unable to get an answer from the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, but it may be that the Minister for the Elderly will now answer me this time: is it completely unproblematic, through the glasses of the Minister for the Elderly, that there have been 3,700 fewer full-time employees in our care for the elderly since Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen became prime minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214125020	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214125021	There are many methods of inventory, and there are many ways to figure things out. Now I was sitting with the Social Democratic rapporteur for the survey, and it actually showed an increase in the number of nurses and social and health workers from January 2015 to 2018. So it's very different what you add to and how you do this mapping and how you figure things out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214125051	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214125052	Okay, the minister won't relate to the numbers I'm bringing. Well, then I'll have to try to ask you another way. The minister comes from a party that believes that we should spend significantly less on our public sector than we do today. The government has a policy that means that we will be missing 10,000 public employees when we reach 2025. And if it were up to the minister's own party, that figure would be even greater. So let us not hang ourselves in these 3,700 fewer full-time employees in the area of the elderly if the Minister does not want to deal with that figure. But I would just ask the Minister to answer the following: is it in itself a problem for the Minister if we continue to see fewer employees in the area of the elderly at a time when there are more and more elderly people?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214125137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214125138	But it's not like that. The government's survey shows an increase in the number of nurses and social and health workers. So it's hard to relate to something that the mapping I'm dealing with doesn't show.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214125150	Thank you. With that, we can thank the Minister for the Elderly. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday 18 December 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214125213	There is no minister in this area. It is therefore the Danish Parliament's own responsibility. The President of Parliament will listen carefully to the debate on the proposal. So now it will become apparent whether you can demonstrate here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament that you can manage well without a minister. It may then be a signal that the Folketing is running well without a government. The debate is open, and we start with Mr. Erik Christensen from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214125257	Thank you, President. I think we can do this and have a good debate without a minister being present. I can say at the outset that the Social Democrats welcome the actions of this motion for a resolution. They are all a step in the right direction in relation to the work on EU substance. This resolution is the result of the work of the working group set up by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, at the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, where all parties were represented. Since then, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has examined the presentation of the working party and has presented this motion for a resolution and a recommendation on which we must take a position today. It can of course be said that the main thrust of the motion for a resolution, and hence the recommendation of the working group and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, can well be summarized as giving the European Committee and the specialised committees, and thus the Folketing, better opportunity to perform the controlling role vis-à-vis the government in EU cases. In other words, to give the European Committee and the specialised committees and thus the Folketing better opportunities to be at the same level with the government in EU cases. It is also to create a better framework for the European Committee and the specialised committees to be better equipped for political positions on EU matters and, above all, to be involved in the process as early as possible. At the same time, the European Committee and the Folketing should be given the possibility of closer follow-up to the implementation of legislative proposals and regulations based on EU legislation. Then, not least, there is the need to simplify procedures in order to have EU cases in the Parliamentary Chamber. In addition, there is also a call for individual parliamentary groups to include major EU cases and major EU cases in their group meetings on an equal footing with other legislative proposals being dealt with here in the Parliamentary Assembly. At the same time, it is also proposed to strengthen the European Committee's ability to draw on the expertise of the specialist rapporteurs in the presentations by the trade ministers in the European Committee. Finally, there is also support for the working group's proposal that the European Committee and the government should continue the dialogue on how a mandate given before a parliamentary election, but which has not been completed before a new election, is handled in respect of the fact that there can be a new majority in the Folketing and therefore also a new situation. And it is true that some of those mandates may in fact be both 6, 7 and 8 years old, and therefore the world may well have changed during that period, so that it should be possible to look at whether those mandates actually need to be reviewed. That is also what is in the proposal here today. However, with regard to the Rules themselves, there are only two of them which call for a genuine amendment of the Rules of Procedure. One thing about the specialist rapporteurs is that they can attend meetings of the European Committees without having to be joined up as they are going to be today. What is important to make clear is that one can participate in the debate and in the dialogue at the meetings, but one cannot be involved in the actual vote in the event of a mandate, nor can one be involved in the case of a report or report. That is why they can only participate in the debate itself and in the dialogue, but we believe that this will also strengthen the very work of the Committee on European Affairs and the debate so that we can get more into the substance of the individual cases. The second thing is to simplify procedures in order to have EU cases dealt with in the Parliamentary Chamber. This also requires an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. It is then proposed that a special arrangement be made for the Committee on European Affairs, which means that a matter dealt with in the Committee on European Affairs can be brought up for debate in the Parliamentary Assembly with a view to obtaining information from the government, and that is quite essential, because that is the whole idea behind it. This must then take the form of an initial statement by the government and an opportunity to ask questions to the Minister or Ministers if there are more on the same subject, but no decision can be taken on the matter. The difference from the current situation is that we in the Committee on European Affairs need to have a thorough reflection on the very subject we would like to have in the Chamber before it is actually discussed and that there will be a greater opportunity to ask questions to the Secretary of State and the Foreign Minister. Then it is also proposed because it may be different on a case-by-case basis that it is the President of the Folketing who decides the form and the speaking time in each case. In addition, there are a number of other proposals that I mentioned, which are, like, the essence of this. It can be said that this does not require an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, but it actually requires a joint report from the government and the European Committee of the Regions. There I would like to call on those parties which represent the government to understand that it is in everyone's interest for this joint report to be produced so that there will be an opportunity to have a better basis for the European Committee and the specialist committees to work on. I think it must be in everyone's interest for the working conditions of the trade committees and the European Committee and thus the Folketing to be improved. But, as I said, this requires a joint report, and I can at least say as chairman of the present Committee on Europe that it is not always easy to get these joint reports, because there may be differences of interest. But we just need to call for a will from the government to do so, otherwise two thirds of it will not actually come true. All in all, however, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that the resolution gives the European Committee, the specialised committees and the Folketing better conditions for carrying out their task in relation to the government in EU matters, so that we can support the motion for a resolution and the recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214125820	Thank you, sir. Erik Christensen. And we move on to Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party, next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214125830	Thank you. The Danish People's Party wants a much more open EU debate in which we debate the ever-increasing amount of legislation flowing from Brussels and Strasbourg. And the resolution here certainly seems to us to be heading in the right direction when it comes to having a more open debate on EU legislation, which is why I can already tell you that we are going to support the resolution. We welcome the fact that the specialist rapporteurs can now be involved in the debate in the Committee on European Affairs so that we can have all the points included and that there will be better access to debate on these proposals in the House. However, as I said, we want a much more open debate on the European Union, and that is why we do not think that what is proposed in this proposal is enough. We believe that there should be clearer and better rules on mandateing. We find it illogical that an empty chair is equal to a yes. I think there are many people in this Chamber who would disapprove that if you were not present in the Chamber, it was spoken as a 'yes' for government policy. We also think that, in principle, the mandate should be given from the Parliamentary Chamber, so that there was as much visibility as possible about the legislation that is taking place in the European Union. We also think that, in order to take this to the utmost consequence, EU legislation should be presented as a motion for a resolution here in the Parliamentary Assembly, so that, as a government, as well as well, I assume, we support these legislative measures, which are open to the Danes from this country's most distinguished platform, as to why they think it is a good idea to introduce the kind of legislation that comes from the European Union. And then, in fact, we also think that these EU cases should be presented in committee much earlier in the process, so that the committee can be involved in the process of EU legislation in the past. These are measures that we will continue to work for. But in the Danish People's Party we have a principle that every step in the right direction is worth taking, and that is why we also intend to take this step and will therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214130108	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. The next in line is Mrs Karen Ellemann, Left, Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214130121	Thank you very much for that, President. I would like to begin by saying that I fully agree with the review of all the work that we are actually holding with the result of now and that the Socialist rapporteur has gone through in the best possible way. After all, it is no secret that a great many hours have been spent and that there have been a great many discussions ahead of the outcome that we have now. Nor is it a secret that the parties have not been broadly in agreement. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has just said that more has been desired. However, the result that we have today is something that I sense there will be broad support for, and something that will also improve the precise clarity of the important EU work, which is a given thing in our legislative processes. It has been important for us in the Left that the mandate should remain in the European Committee. We have not had a desire to render the Committee on European Affairs toothless, which we regarded as a risk at least, in the event that the mandate was transferred to the trade committees. However, it is very important to ensure that the specialist rapporteurs are committed when there is a mandate in the Committee on European Affairs. It is, of course, a commitment that we as parties must take on us, because now opportunities are being created and opportunities are being made better, but they are only as good as the opportunities we are now grasping. So now the tools come in even better form and therefore also the obligation that we ensure this important work forwards. With regard to joint reports, I agree with the need to work on the path which the Social Democrat rapporteur has just outlined. Then I should welcome from the Conservative People's Party and say that the Conservative People's Party, like the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, can support exactly this amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament that we are discussing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214130333	It nevertheless gives a brief comment or question, or whatever it is. It's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, who asks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214130345	Thank you. I fully agree with what the rapporteur of the Left says about the need to seize the tools that come, but this is also very much about cooperation between government and parliament, and to make it work. After all, we sit on numerous occasions in the Committee on European Affairs and have little struggle with the government to make it run properly; that information flows and the government also wants real cooperation with the legislative assembly. It is a unique situation that we have in Denmark that we actually have a parliament so involved in the EU's decision-making processes. So could the powerful woman, whom the rapporteur is, as chairman of the Left, say something about this joint report, that is to say the work that is going on after we have decided on this? Whether you want to put real power and energy into making sure that it is also about the government following with the Folketing in the changes we want to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214130440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214130443	I am not, in fact, a subscriber to the picture that government ministers are not so keen to ensure that there is effective cooperation, because it is so essential for the whole of the support for the European Community that we actually have an understanding of what it is for legislative acts that are on the way and how the processes are in relation to what is happening in both the European Commission, the Council and the European Parliament. I do not see that approach merely as something related to the very issue we are dealing with here. It is, after all, ongoing in relation to the mandate. That is also how I heard the Socialist rapporteur's proposal: that using the report tool in general is a major factor in making this link between the government in office at all times and the Parliamentary Committee on Europe. So it's not just on this case, it's wider.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214130542	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214130546	Yes, to such an extent, because this is only one step on the way, in terms of how we can treat the EU's decision-making processes in a better way in the Folketing. That's what this is all about. It is also when we come in; when we in Parliament know what has actually been implemented in Denmark by EU legislation. It's also often hard to find out. So the important thing for me was actually to ask whether the Left is willing to go further than this and say that it is an ongoing work that needs to be done to make these processes much better for the sake of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214130617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214130620	I can confirm that this is the approach we have in the way of the work that needs to be done when the Folketing gives the negotiating mandate. That is why it is also important to say that as a party you also bear a responsibility to keep up with, for example. The Commission's work programme, which is being presented, so that at an appropriate early stage we are aware of what sort of issues are under way, what is on the agenda, what is being worked on. And then there will always be the situation, the challenge, that when we have parliamentary elections and mandates are replaced, etc., new people will come. It's a pretty big store to get into. In fact, I think that there are some good initiatives here in relation to what is happening after the new Parliament has been set up for a parliamentary election. In terms of what is actually given by mandates, and in terms of helping with the fact that you as a parliamentarian have that insight, it understands the importance of actually engaging in the work of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, and at the same time also understand the cooperation between the Danish Government and the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214130738	With that we thank Mrs Karen Ellemann. Then we'll swing into the socialist ranks, and that's sir. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214130750	Thank you. In our view, it is a fact that, in general, EU cases are dealt with in a democratic way. It's quite general. A normal bill has three readings. It was a huge gain from the Basic Law of 1849 I don't know whether it came there or whether it came a little later. But it is the idea that there are three readings so that citizens can have the opportunity to influence matters between the readings and so that a committee can be dealt with and questions can be asked and there can be deputies and anything. This is not the case with EU cases. As a starting point, EU cases have one reading. When we have normal laws, all members of parliament have to take responsibility. All members of parliament must take responsibility and like press the button. When it comes to EU cases, there are some experts who have been appointed to do so, and you can say: Oh, I don't know, because we have some people to take care of that. And it can also be said that, when it comes to the interests of the press, it is much less in the case of EU cases, because they are often technically more difficult than the cases that come to the Chamber. That is democratically questionable. And that is strange, since many EU cases are considerably more important than the legislative proposals being dealt with in this Chamber. They have much more effect. They are much more important to citizens than the amount of time spent sitting and discussing here. It's weird, but that's the way it is. It is therefore very good that there is agreement to do something about it, and there are some very good things in the proposal that lies here. Several of the previous speakers have mentioned this, among other things. The chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, who will shortly be in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, will be able to attend meetings of the European Committee of the Regions, and there will be easier access to the proceedings in the Chamber. These are very good suggestions. There are some things that need to be negotiated between the government and the Danish Parliament and the European Committee: the government must submit EU cases to the European Committee at least once before the mandate is given, the government must provide better information on how EU legislation is implemented in Danish law, and the government must, after each parliamentary elections, have a list of pending cases in which the government has obtained a mandate, but where the matter is still pending. These are very good things which will bring us a step forward and which we can only support. In our view, the good thing is good, but it does not come all the way around. There are some obvious things that are still missing. There is a lack of better reporting from the negotiations and of confirmation and modification of the mandates, not just in connection with elections, but on an ongoing basis, because some things are happening on an ongoing basis. There is the question of how many seats are obtained, i.e. how many times the government asks the Folketing to have a mandate. We, who sit on the Committee on European Affairs, may feel that this is often the case. It is the case that 69 mandates are given in Denmark, but in Sweden the EU Board, which corresponds to our European Committee, is asked 302 times. And we are talking about exactly the same things, because that is something that is being dealt with in the EU, and there are both Denmark and Sweden members. Why is it that in Sweden you ask the Swedish Parliament much more often than you ask the Danish Parliament in Denmark? That's something we should have looked at. Then there is what is most crucial to us: the voting method in the Committee on European Affairs. The voting method in the Committee on European Affairs is such that if you stay away, you vote in favour. I would now like to take the example of the President. The President sits here, the government comes and presents a proposal, and then there sits a grudge over there saying: I am against. Then nobody else will speak and then the President will say: the proposal has been adopted. That's a little weird, isn't it? Only some have spoken against, no one has spoken in favour, but the proposal has been adopted. And why has the proposal been adopted? Yes, because there are a whole lot of empty chairs, and the empty chairs automatically count as a vote in favour. This is not something that promotes commitment. If you're a little in doubt, you stay away. If you have other important cases, you stay away. That is why we must have a system in which we in the Committee on European Affairs vote in the manner in which we vote in the Parliamentary Assembly. And if there is a majority in favour of the government's proposal, it goes through, and if there is not a majority in favour of it, then it will not go through. Why do we have this strange arrangement? Well, it's a relic from the old days. It is, of course, provided by the Constitution, which states that foreign policy is conducted by the government after consultation. That is why it is so. When there is no majority against the government's foreign policy, it runs like that. But EU matters are not foreign policy. EU cases are domestic policy. It's about how things are going in Denmark, and that's what's the fundamental misunderstanding in all of this. It is that people believe that EU policy is foreign policy, but EU policy is about what should be in our food. EU policy is about what rules apply in the labour market. EU policy is domestic policy, and that is why we need to change it. We in the Enhedslisten will attach great importance to this in the coming period. In fact, we want to place a decisive emphasis on this in order to use an expression that we use in the Committee on European Affairs. We will put a decisive emphasis on this in the coming period, including during the coming government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214131332	And I attach the utmost importance to thanking Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Thank you very much, President. Then we are ready for the next speaker, and this is Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214131347	Sir. Søren Søndergaard referred to some situations in the work of the Committee on European Affairs which, I believe, the quote was not a demand for commitment. In return, I promise you, sir. Søren Søndergaard's own speech is so necessary for the commitment, and I think that is wonderful. For that is really what this is all about, not just the resolution we are discussing here, but the whole work that lies ahead: a more committed parliamentary debate on European policy issues. That is what we are discussing. I think there is every reason to welcome and acknowledge and appreciate the great work that is behind us now having some concrete proposals to continue working on something that can also be implemented immediately after today. And then you can ask me, uh, I think it was sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, who spoke about the work of making Parliament more committed to the European political end here. No, it doesn't, if you ask me, it's a continuous process. Because there is no indication that the European political community, whether you are a supporter or an opponent of the European Union, will in itself be less full, almost quite the opposite. So I see that this is a really, really good start... some really good concrete proposals that are immediately implementable. And then I hope that it is something that has put a sprout in all of us in order to ensure that European policy is not such a strange, distant thing to itself in the Folketing, but something that concerns more politicians and engages more politicians than exactly those who sit on the European Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214131534	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214131548	Thank you. You could be very brief and just say that everything in this proposal is quite reasonable, it is a good step, and then you could go down from the platform. But now this is about the European Union, so I am going to say a little more, because I think it is so crucial a question, that is, how do we deal with EU legislation in the Folketing? How do we see ourselves as an integral part of the democratic process that is in the European Union? I mean, when the Folketing makes decisions in matters that the government puts forward, then we are part of a decision-making process that is much bigger. That is why there are a number of things we do not touch on with this resolution, which should be done. Sir. Søren Søndergaard mentioned it. One is the number of seats given. In other words, it may seem completely crazy that there are so few cases to be mandated when you now know how many cases are actually going through our EU legislative process during the year. It is also surprising, and that is what I really hope this proposal will do something about when it is that a government really thinks that it should even start talking to the Folketing about matters. Too often we either come up at a very, very early stage, and we all know that a negotiation process with 28 parties in particular plus Parliament and the Commission makes things moving along the way. And, of course, we should come back and say: now the negotiations are in a different way, and that is why we need to update a mandate. At other times Parliament gets into matters so late that it doesn't matter what we say. Because we are in fact finished, and that is why it is a question of saying 'yes' or 'no' to a given debate that has already been held. And that is something that is very topical right now, especially with the EU's next budget framework for 2021-2027, which is being negotiated on life, but which we absolutely must not talk about in the Folketing, because it is only later that we have to negotiate that way around. This is in some way not so much something we are simply dealing with with a motion for a resolution; it is actually a culture of government, of ministers, of central government, of democracy and of discussion with the Folketing is actually a good thing. It may be that we get much better negotiating positions, will be clarified. But it may also be about • and it is then the second leg that I think is important to highlight in addition to these things • the culture that we have as members of parliament and parties on these matters. In any case, it is something that I hope will be pushed up a little with these new opportunities for the specialist rapporteurs to be present that we are actually beginning to take seriously that all the members of the Folketing are part of the EU's decision-making process. And that is why we must, of course, take the legislation equally seriously, whether it is done under the auspices of the European Union or in the Folketing. But it will require cultural changes and they are difficult, and I hope that we will be better at that in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214131850	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214131906	Thank you. I, too, am delighted with the step we are taking here. It's been a long time coming. I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who went through some of the many long discussions that have been going on about this, i.e. the preparatory work that has been in this session. But this work goes back many years. And we, who have been EU rapporteurs on several occasions or have just been interested in the debate and have engaged us in this and it is across parties that are among the real, very many who would like us to have many more people involved in the EU debate, regardless of what opinions you have, and also that it is even more open. We're doing everything we can. It's open. There is television transmission from the meetings of the European Committee of the Regions. It cannot be more open, but we would very much like to have more people, both MPs and, of course, the general public and the media involved in the debate. So I think it is a good step that we now have the specialist committees with, or at least have the opportunity to do so. I would also just like to say that we in the Radical Left would have liked to have gone further. We would like to oblige the Folketing wider, the specialist committees to also give the mandates, because we quite like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur believe that EU policy is also domestic policy. Of course it is. It is a fundamental part of the political everyday life that we have, and that is why it is something that we should all have integrated into our work. Many people do too, but since it is a longer decision-making process, we tend to be late in coming into it from the Danish side, at least when it comes to the specialist rapporteurs. This is a pity, because it will end up being a more superficial debate instead of a debate on the very specific different solutions and policies that lie in the stomach of such EU solutions. It always does, and we all do, I think, quite openly, but it is rare that it becomes a fundamental part of the debate. So we would have liked to have gone further. We will continue to work on this, and we are at least happy to have taken this step.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214132142	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214132153	Thank you for that, President. I also think it is good that we have this motion for a resolution and I think there are grounds for commendation. Erik Christensen, chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, for leading this work. It has taken a long time, it has been thorough and it is very, very good that we have arrived at this. Of course, we support it. There are things we could have wanted differently, I'll just come back to that. But it is perhaps also important, I think, to have just a little in mind, what history is like with the European Committee and the then market committee. It was established in 1972 by Ib Frederiksen, then Minister for Agriculture, also known as Turkey-Ib. He came home with a result that was not very satisfactory. Then he found out that there should be a little more parliamentary control over this, and then this market committee was set up, which could sort of control the government. Even then, there was a discussion about whether this was a foreign policy or a domestic policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs thought it was foreign policy, and it was they who should have the power to decide this. The Folketing meant something else. So since then there has been a struggle, one can say, between the Folketing and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about whether this is Section 19 or whether it is domestic politics. There are also differing views about this today. In my opinion, it is both. It is also foreign policy because it is a question of negotiations with other countries, which means that we cannot just compare it here with ordinary law-making. We cannot do this because we are in a negotiating situation, but when we arrive at a result in committee, that does not mean that a legislative act will be adopted. One has to go down to Brussels, and only after that has been adopted has the act been adopted, the EU legal act, and often it has to be subsequently transposed into Danish legislation. That is where the real legislation comes in. So this is not legislation in the real sense, but it is true, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard said that many of the decisions taken in the EU have more consequences than many of the laws we adopt here in the Folketing. And it is a little strange that you can have big debates, long processes on legislative proposals which, quite frankly, are not always very important. Then there will be EU cases and they will just be run through the European Committee without a major debate. That is not satisfactory. It is not satisfactory democratic, but it is also not in relation to the quality of legislation, because it is often up there with fairly complex things, business policy matters, convergence, solvency ratios, and I do not know what from the financial sector, in other words very, very technically complex things, which then do not get the big headlines, but can have a very great impact on business, business. That is why it is important, and it is in this context that we are concerned about the fact that the specialist committees are very much involved. It is in order to have a more satisfactory, more thorough professional examination of the various proposals that come from the European Union. So I think we should continue to work on that. It's not coming now, only to a small extent. I believe, in principle, that all specialist committees should be involved in all EU proposals, and then the European Committee should, in principle, act as rubber stamp in relation to the positions that are coming and then take the overall discussion on how this should be placed in the negotiations. There may be some things that need to be changed, but this must then be due to a negotiating situation that comes in where the government can assess how the negotiations are in relation to other countries. That's the ideal thing for me, but there's no majority for now, and that's okay enough. After all, some progress has been made in relation to greater participation by the specialist rapporteurs. However, as I said, progress has been made here, as has been seen over the years. I myself became a member of the then Committee on the Market in 1981, and I can say that when we had an agenda there were six or seven items. Point 1: agriculture, point 2: fisheries, point 3: enterprise policy, and then there was no more. The meetings approx. Twenty minutes, and that's what was supposed to happen back then. It was really expedition cases without a major discussion. I fought to get papers at least, didn't I? I knew you could get that, and we had a very big debate about it, and in the first place the reaction from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was that all the papers were handed over to us, we were drowned in papers, and that was not satisfactory either. So we also had to take that fight afterwards, so that we got a satisfactory level of information. We had a major debate on minutes. There were no records. No one knew what had actually been decided. We had a huge case at a time when there was disagreement about what had been decided. You didn't know that. I remember Mogens Glistrup suggesting that tape recorders be put in. We could record it on tape. It was too radical back then, so it was not adopted. It is just to show how this has developed positively over the years, so that today we have much, much better information on these issues and also a better democratic debate, which is also necessary because there are more and more proposals coming from the European Union. The European Union is playing an increasingly important role, including in Danish politics, so this is why, I think, a good resolution which is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214132725	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen for this insight into the memories, which may have to be written by Mr. Holger K. Nielsen soon enough. No one else has asked for the floor, and then the negotiations have ended. I have not heard a request for referral to committee, which is why I propose that the proposal go directly to the second reading, which is then a final reading. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214132804	The debate is open and we give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214132814	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Socialist People's Party proposes that before the end of the 2019-20 parliamentary year, the government should be required to propose a number of amendments to the Aliens Act in order to give greater weight to the child's best interests in matters of asylum and residence permits. Children coming to Denmark such as: asylum seekers are particularly vulnerable, and we therefore also have a duty to take account of their particular needs when dealing with cases where children are involved. The obligation to give special attention to the child's best interests in the handling of cases is found among other things. in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and, of course, the government recognises that Denmark must meet its international obligations. This is a duty that we would like to take on because, of course, we must give special attention to the best interests of children, and I believe that the rules and practices in force are also an expression of this. But let us take a look at the legal basis. Under Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, we must put the child's best interests first in all measures relating to children, and our national rules are assumed to be administrative in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The best interests of the child are therefore also at the heart of both legislation and the treatment of all foreign cases by the immigration authorities. This applies both in the asylum process and in the assessment of the other basis of residence, which the Aliens Act provides for, for example. rules on family reunification with children. This means, for example, that exceptions must be made to the rules in force in the Aliens Act, if Denmark's international obligation so requires, among other things. if the interests of the child so require. It is therefore the government's clear view that the law and the treatment of foreign cases involving children already take into account the best interests of the child. The government therefore considers that there is no need to clarify this further in the legislation, and I must therefore also say that the government is already unable to support the motion for a resolution tabled. Nevertheless, I would like to take a more specific view of some of the proposals contained in the motion for a resolution. There will be the authors of the motion for a resolution, among others. It is intended that the best interests of the child should be placed at the heart of the legislation and proceedings in cases of asylum and other residence permits and that the best interests of the child should weigh particularly heavily in cases involving children under the age of 15 who have been in Denmark for more than 6-7 years. However, as I have already said, the best interests of the child are already taken into account in the particular processes and safety measures involved in the proceedings when a case concerns a child. I would like to mention, for example, that the Aliens Act in the field of unaccompanied minors contains the security measure that, unless very specific reasons justify it, personal representatives are appointed as unaccompanied minors as soon as possible. I should also like to point out that, in the case of children's self-employed right of residence, special emphasis is placed on whether the child has had part of his or her formal years in this country, that is to say. from approx. 6-7 years of age and to approx. 15 years old. It seems to me that this is precisely the expression of the fact that the authorities must already take account of children who have stayed longer in this country. It is against this background that I firmly believe that the best interests of the child are already being given the special attention that it deserves and to which we are also internationally committed. With the resolution, the Socialist People's Party also wants a framework for a transparent procedure for dealing with children under the age of 15 who have parents in Denmark. Once again, I do not agree with the premise, which must then be that today's framework is inadequate, because the immigration authorities take account of all minors, whether they are unaccompanied, accompanied or included, and whether or not the child applies for asylum or residence permit or is subject to the procedure of the immigration authorities for another reason. In each individual case, specific consideration must be given to the individual situation, and these are, of course, the facts of each individual case. No cases are identical, and I am confident that the authorities, by dealing specifically with matters and with the individual circumstances of each child, best give the child's best interests the special attention that is needed. Finally, the motion for a resolution concerns the need for successful integration in certain family reunification cases involving children over the age of 8. The proposers will require the government to change the criteria for assessing the integration requirement. As I am sure we are all aware, there has been a recent focus on cases where a child has been refused family reunification in this country, bearing in mind that the child has no prospect of successful integration. The cases are typically characterised by the fact that the children have stayed in Denmark during the treatment of the family reunification case. During this period, the children have in some cases learned Danish and had a social life with children of the same age in this country. As I have said on other occasions, of course I fully understand that the families had hoped for a different outcome in these matters, but I must also just repeat that I find it strange that you do not bring your children to Denmark from the beginning. Basically, I think we have some good rules in this area. It is vital that we ensure that you cannot just leave your children in the home country to prevent them from growing up with our Danish standards and values, and that you can then bring them up here later, without having any kind of consequence whatsoever. Having said that, I recognise that it is of course a pity that the parent who finds a new spouse in this country has not in all cases fully understood the consequences of the choice of leaving the child in the country of origin and only applies for family reunification later. As I said just last Wednesday in this Chamber, I think we can be even better at ensuring that parents know the consequences of their choices in these matters. That's why I've also asked my ministry to take a closer look at how we can dress our parents even better in relation to these rules. I expect that an additional guide can be put on the immigration authorities' website very soon. I would like to emphasise very clearly that it is important for the government to maintain the strict immigration policy. I don't think anyone's gonna be surprised either. However, the government is also, of course, also open to discuss whether there is a need for minor adjustments to existing rules, so that they address more specifically the problem they are created to solve. I shall therefore shortly call the parties behind the rules in force to discuss them. But for me, basically, it is primarily about parents taking their children to Denmark from a start. We must maintain that expectation, and I think that is not too much to ask for either. I think this is precisely for the sake of the children whose future must be in this country. Yes, one can be tempted to say here today that this is the fundamental thing in that it must be the child's best interests. If self-understanding is enough to take the position of the one who wants the best for the children, then I think that the criticism of the rules really lacks to deal with what we say to the children where parents today bring the children here quickly, because the rules encourage it, but where a relaxation or perhaps even the abolition of the rules completely undermines this incentive. When you are so eager to show that you are the protectors of these children, you should also be able to answer how to protect them from parents who want to keep the children in a culture and in a set of values that is very far from ours. But I do think that the critics of these rules have absolutely no relation to that. So summa summarum is that, although the government cannot support this resolution, I would like to sign for the debate. As I have said, the government agrees that the best interests of the child must also be a central element in the legislation and the case-law relating to children, but it is also my clear view that it already exists in the legislation today, so that the child's best interests are precisely the focus of attention. That is why, as I have said, the government sees no reason to support the motion for a resolution, even because it is based on a premise of the opposite. I look forward, of course, to the further consideration of the motion for a resolution, and if any questions arise in connection with it, I will of course reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214133903	There are no requests for short remarks, so we thank the honourable Minister very much. And I would like to welcome the first rapporteur, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, of the Social Democratic Party, and if we are to stay in the jargon, it is the honourable Member, Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214133930	Thanks to the SF for raising this discussion. In the Social Democratic Party we generally think that the rules of the Aliens Act on residence permits are sensible; these are the rules that ensure that Danes can marry foreigners and get their spouse here and also bring their spouse's children here under reasonable conditions; it is also the law that ensures that people who need protection can have it here in our country, both adults and children. But it is clear that as we live in a state governed by the rule of law, we regulate these rules according to laws and provisions, and we cannot help but think that there will be a few cases that are different than they seem to be on the surface. That is why I think it is important that we, as Parliament, do not panic and change legislation every time there has been a case in the media. However, lately there has been more than one case, which has actually been several, which has been about the same thing, namely that of families seeking association with a child who is staying in the country of origin. That is why I think it is quite appropriate that we should now take these debates for the third or fourth time in this Chamber on the basis that what cannot be explained cannot be defended either. And as I have said before, I myself find it a little difficult to explain why some of these cases end up with refusal and others end up with a residence permit. We can then understand from the government that negotiations will soon be called for on some of these issues, and on that basis I would say that it would be best if we took the discussion now, because it might be beneficial, but that we might be able to conclude this resolution with a joint report in committee, setting out some basic principles as to what we think the legal position of children in these matters should be. If the authors of the motion for a resolution nevertheless put the proposal to the vote, then the Social Democrats will vote yellow, in other words neither for nor against. This is because we generally have sympathy for the intentions of the proposal, which is about putting children at the centre. On the other hand, we will not advance the forthcoming negotiations. Furthermore, I must say that I am also a little unsure whether it would be sensible to grant residence permits to all families for as long as the asylum cases last for six or seven years, and I would actually say that I think it might be problematic; that is, of course, on condition that I have understood the proposal correctly. Finally, I have some doubts as to whether the proposal kicks in an open door. The best interests of the child are already quite central to section 9c of the Aliens Act, even at the heart of paragraph 9. 1, and as far as I have just been able to examine it, it is something that was inserted in 2002 specifically to underline the child's best interests in these cases. But we look forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214134226	Thank you very much, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. And a warm welcome to Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214134244	B 30 is one of several attempts to change the practice of the individual, but much mentioned, cases where children cannot stay in Denmark because they are not deemed to have integration potential. The proposal is to involve the child's best interests more than is already done. The proposers also want the assessment of integration potential to change itself so that children who speak Danish, attend their schooling, etc. cannot be judged unfit for integration. The cases in the media seem sad, but we must remember that we do not know all sides of the matter. That is why we also need to be very careful when reacting to individual cases raised in the media. In the Danish People's Party we have declared ourselves willing to look at what can be done to adjust the administration of matters and possibly also to legislation, but it is hardly going to be these proposals that we will say yes to. Because in the Danish People's Party we want to maintain the strict immigration policy and we want to make it impossible for parents to send their children to their home country or to wait to take them to Denmark because they want to avoid the children becoming Danish. And I think it looks as if this proposal makes it possible to get a stay more precisely, even if you wait a very long time to take the children to Denmark or to send them to re-education. Therefore, I do not think that this proposal should be the solution to the problems we have seen in the media with the stories of children who cannot live in Denmark. So the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214134435	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Peter Juel-Jensen from Bornholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214134452	Thank you for that, President. On behalf of the Left rapporteur on this subject, Mads Fuglede, who unfortunately has no opportunity to be in the Chamber today, I now read his speech: let me start by stressing that it is of course important to stress the child's best interests in matters of asylum and residence permits. We must take account of the particular needs of a child who comes here. And, of course, this is something that the Left is concerned about. Having said that, I believe, like the Minister, that the current Danish legislation and practice already take into account the best interests of the child. We in the Left therefore find no further reason to emphasise this in the legislation. The SF comes in this resolution with several concrete proposals on how to strengthen the child's best interests. I will refrain from explaining the current legislation and procedure in this area, as I believe that the Minister has covered this well. As the rules are today, we increase the parents' incentive to take their children to Denmark as soon as possible for the benefit of the children. We in the Left therefore believe that the current rules in this area are quite reasonable. Parents should not be able to leave their children in their country of origin to avoid being marked from childhood by Danish standards and values. And, as I have said on previous occasions, we believe that it is absolutely essential for successful integration that children come to Denmark as early as possible. With the current rules, we ensure that all parents have a clear incentive to bring their children to Denmark as soon as they themselves come here. Of course, I fully understand the difficult situation faced by some of the families. That is why I am pleased that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration will strengthen the guidance so that the rules in the future cannot surprise anyone. In conclusion, I would like to stress that we in the Left are willing to make minor adjustments to the legislation so that we do not miss it, but I also believe that the best interests of the child are already at the heart of the legislation and of the case-law relating to children. Against this background, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214134657	Thank you very much, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, and welcome to Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten • De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214134708	Hello, Chairman. The Enhedslisten agrees with the proposal to place greater emphasis on the best interests of the child in dealing with asylum and residence cases, and therefore we can also support the proposal to require the government to make a proposal where it then appears. And then it is clear that, when this proposal is before us, we can then discuss how it is to be put into practice in the various areas. As far as the Enhedslisten is concerned, I can report our starting point. We're talking about three different categories here. We're talking about Danish citizens. As far as Danish citizens are concerned, it is our view, as we also said in the discussion here the other day, that they should have the right to live with their family in Denmark, including the children of spouses from previous relationships. Then there is another category, and these are recognised refugees. It is our view that recognised refugees, regardless of their precise status, should have the right to family reunification in Denmark with their spouse and their minor children. And then there is the third category, and these are children of rejected asylum seekers. They do not have the right to stay in Denmark, and it is clear that when you have an asylum system that decides whether people have the right to asylum or not have the right to asylum, it is logical that people who do not have the right to stay in Denmark should leave Denmark. But we also believe that there will be a time when children have lived in Denmark for so long that the child's demands for security must be placed at the top. We are fully aware that there is a dilemma here. We are fully aware that it is not simple. We do not believe that a fixed limit can be created, but that it may be on the basis of a child's professional judgement of the child's best interests combined with an assessment of the possibilities of broadcasting. For it is clear that there are very different possibilities for broadcasting, and if the starting point is that the possibility of broadcasting, that is. to get a country to take their citizens back, even if it does not happen voluntarily, has very long prospects, so of course it is included with a weight in the overall assessment. So that is our starting point in principle for this discussion, and we will of course take that as a basis when we enter into the discussion of the proposal that the government will have to make if the SF proposal is adopted. In this context, I cannot help linking a thread between two points of view which have been heard by the government, namely that of the fact that, in the case of Danish nationals who are married to a foreigner, it is inevitably important that the child be brought along. We have also heard this from the Social Democrats, and I believe that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye used the wording with the same plane as the spouse who marries in Denmark. And it must then be in order that they do not have a bad influence from their home country. However, when it comes to refugees fleeing from war and destruction etc., yes, we have been thinking about paying the money in the country to leave their children at home. Apparently it doesn't matter that they're under a bad influence from home, even so bad an influence that it might cost them their lives. Well, I just think it's a very good example of how the arguments are taken off the shelf, depending on what's right. We have discussed this issue many times lately, and I would like to say that, although we support the proposal and will vote in favour of it, our expectations that it will be implemented are, I think, very limited. In other words, we do not believe that there will be any change with this government, and the Minister has, in fact, made that clear. That is where the political differences are going, and that is why it is also important that this is part of the election campaign, that the children's conditions become part of the election campaign, and that we will then, of course, fight for a majority after the parliamentary elections, which will set some new standards in this area. However, as I said, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214135146	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Welcome to sir. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214135155	Thank you for that, President. As with so much else, family reunification rules are about weighing the different considerations against each other. There is concern that one can take one's loved one and possibly his children with oneself to Denmark and live together here. It is basically about people's ability to seek their own happiness. On the other hand, there is the consideration that we do not put others at risk, that is, that we can support ourselves, but also that we protect children from parents who do not want their children to grow up in a Western country with the values and standards we now have in our part of the world. And sometimes they stumble against each other, and the rules hit someone we don't really want them to hit. Those cases come in the media, and they affect us all. The cases which do not appear in the media are those which the legislation prevents, i.e. children who, in the absence of the law in force, would have been left in their country of origin or returned to their country of origin. The press was very interested in these cases when the legislation did not prevent them. What we must therefore remember is that today there are people living in Denmark who, in the absence of the current rules, had been left in their country of origin or sent back to their country of origin for re-education. We will not compromise with regard to these children. We are very pleased that the Minister for Integration has called for negotiations. We have openly said that there are two things we would like to do. Firstly, we want to make sure that, as is often the case, the mother is informed about the consequences of not taking her children with her to Denmark. In this respect, we must remember that most people do. And when you do, there is no integration assessment at all. So this is very much a South-East Asian phenomenon. Secondly, we would also like to look at whether the assessment of the integration potential itself can be changed, so that a little more emphasis is placed on how the child is doing in Denmark and how well it is doing in school, whether it has learned Danish etc. etc. However, as I said, we will not compromise on the fact that we are preventing children from being taken to Denmark or being sent back to their country of origin. There, too, we must be honest and say that some of the cases we have seen in the press, where children have been left in their country of origin for many years, could not be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214135515	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214135523	Thank you for that, and thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution, which we support from the alternative. We fully agree that it is unclear, as it stands, and as it stands and is being practiced right now, in relation to what it really means that the best interests of the child must be the basis for these assessments. In principle, when we talk about children's integration assessment, we believe that in the ideal world there should be no children's integration assessment at all, because they are children, and they should not be assessed for integration. We also think that children have the right to family reunification from day one, because it is your family when you have been resident in Denmark, and we also think that the children of rejected asylum seekers have the right to a decent life in Denmark as long as they are here, and now of course I have a special thought about the children living in Soulsmark. I think that with regard to the whole idea that we are providing a strengthened guide, which should be on the website, there is nothing wrong with providing stronger guidance in relation to saying to the children's parents who have married a Danish citizen that they must take the children with quickly. There's nothing wrong with the instructions. But I simply do not understand how we can equate it, i.e. that if you do not take your child on the same plane or whatever it may be, it means that we, as the Danish state, must say and decide that that child is not worthy of integration. I mean, the logic of argument doesn't add up at all. This is something we come up with in here, so that the reality is simply that if you come here quickly with your mother, as is typical, you can be integrated, and if you do not get here quickly, you are not fit for integration, and then you do not become a good Danish citizen and citizen. It is a reality that we have come up with, so we have to find solutions that take account of the child in play and not of some logic that we define here from the Folketing. It also makes me think that I think at all when we speak the best interests of children and now we talk about poor children yesterday etc. But it can never be the case that the children have to pay the price. Children are children, and it does not matter whether they were born in Denmark or in Africa or in Thailand. So we have to say, as a decent political parliament, that when it is the best interests of children, it is also the best of children that we are looking at. There is no point in creating procedures and arguments which we think are appropriate here, because we can then manage it when what is real is that it is the children who must grow up in this world and have a life that endures and have a future with the best conditions for living a good life. So I think that somewhere basically we should discuss what it really means to take into account the best interests of the child. I think we're a little short of that sometimes because we're going to define from our side what that means. But it was more such a bit more fundamental discussion than that. I am very pleased that the SF has tabled this resolution and I am pleased that the Social Democrats are so accommodating in saying: let us try to see in committee whether we can actually find a common basis on which we can agree. After all, we do not agree on what will be optimal, but perhaps we could actually find a place where we can all nod to something that is at least better than the way it is today. And, of course, we would very much like to be involved in this in the alternative. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214135908	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments, if the rapporteur wishes them to be made, Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214135910	It's just for the record. Now I heard both the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and the Alternative's rapporteur mention that I have said this earlier about getting on the same plane. I used it on Wednesday, when we had a similar discussion, when I said just now that I believe that most of us would take our children on the same plane, but that there may be good reasons for the child to come later, for example. If you are to complete a course of treatment or a boarding school or something else, and our legislation must, of course, be able to take that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214135951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214135952	That has been noted. I'm sorry I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140003	Are there any further questions from the questioner? No. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140004	I just want to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that the chance of successful integration is greater if a child arrives at 8 years of age than at 17 years of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140017	Yeah, I think it is. But should it prevent the 17-year-old from having the opportunity, if the specific 17-year-old then actually shows good integration opportunities, just because you haven't been here for a long time? That's what I'm talking about. We have seen all these cases, and we have heard about them in the press, with children who are well integrated, who go to Danish schools, speak Danish, go to football, and what do I know, and then are told that they cannot be in Denmark, just because they have been away from their mother for too long. So I do not disagree with that premise. But does this mean that we should say no to those who have not come right away? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140051	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140052	Yeah, those stories are affecting us all. There I just think it would suit the alternative that one had such a little more understanding of the other side of it, namely the stories one does not see in the media, i.e. the children who, because of this legislation, have stayed in Denmark or have come to Denmark. Examples of children who were taken out of Danish society and sent to Pakistan have previously been seen, for example, because parents, even if they wanted to live in Denmark, did not want their children to grow up with the standards and values that now apply here. We are preventing these matters today, and that is very, very welcome. I just think that basically it would suit the alternative to recognise that, even if those children do not come into the media anymore, because they have lived in Denmark, for example. and maybe even have had a good Danish youth life here, then there is still a huge regard for them. And it is gratifying that the rules prevent them from being sent and that they are taken to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140156	But I'm not up here creating a perfect reality. I know there are rotten apples in the box. That is how it is in our society at all. But the most important consideration will then be what weighs the heaviest. What consideration are we taking in relation to the way in which we regulate our legislation? I would just like to appeal to us to take account of the fact that there are no children worthy of integration who grow up and become fine Danish citizens who get a 'no' because we take into account the consideration to which the rapporteur refers. I recognise that there can be challenges and we have a criminal law and we have legislation in Denmark to live under. It must then come into force if it is that some people are not living in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140242	Thank you, Mrs Magdalene Maier, and warmly welcome to Mrs Anne Marie Geisler Andersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140250	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we may not surprisingly support this proposal, which aims to ensure the child's best interests are decisive in matters relating to asylum and residence permits. This is particularly true in the case of young children who have lived long in Denmark. We very much agree with the principle approach of the Enhedslisten, which the rapporteur so well explained. If there is more transparency in the case-law, then it is also difficult to oppose it, just as we wholeheartedly support a relaxation of the criteria for eligibility for integration. However, we did see that this assessment of integration of children was completely abolished. We do not need to be rapporteur in this area, but simply open a newspaper every now and then, to know about some of the sad things that have been going on in this area, where children who attend their school speak Danish and in general have settled well, are sent, I don't know about saying home because what is a home without mother and father? In addition, Mr President, I should also like to welcome our rapporteur in this area. Andreas Steenberg, who fits tasks elsewhere, and say the following: The Radical Left agrees with the SF's proposal and we would like to thank the SF for putting it forward. For children, the most important thing is. Children are children, and they are not responsible for the actions of adults. It is unbearable to see children in Soulsmark who feel locked up and can experience living for years in isolation at an asylum center. It is also unbearable to see children deported, while their parents and siblings are allowed to be in Denmark, as we have seen with the so-called Mint case. Therefore, it is obvious to place more emphasis on the child's best interests in these matters so that we can support the SF's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140436	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140438	It is for one of the first sentences that was said by the rapporteur: what is a home without mother and father? That is exactly the point of the rules we now have, that is to say, in our part of the world we believe that it is a very large part of having a home. Therefore, we want you to take your children with you to Denmark if you want them to be in Denmark at some point. You should not leave your children 5, 6 or 7 years old, as we have seen examples of before taking them to Denmark. It is also about the child's best interests, and that is precisely what the rules take into account. These families are divorced, but it's not the law that separates them. They're already divorced. We don't want that. We want parents to be with their children because that's what's a home.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140536	Now, as you know, I am not the rapporteur in this area, so I cannot go down in the specific cases, but I think I have read that in some of these cases there may be quite good reasons why you have not taken your children with you from the outset. But basically we just mean in the Radical Left, as the alternative also explained so well that parents' actions should not affect children.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140556	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140557	It is a sympathetic attitude to have, but the truth is that parents' actions sometimes affect their children. This is precisely what we are trying to prevent with this legislation; because we are of the opinion that it is good that parents and children are together, we want you to take your children with you. Current legislation prevents children from being left in their country of origin or sent back. And, as I said to the rapporteur of the Alternative, it would be nice if there were a little more recognition that we actually have legislation that prevents some boring matters and if they were in the media, we would all stand here and say: that is also terrible, and we must have done something about that. We do not see these cases because of the legislation. We see some other cases, and these are specifically cases relating to South-East Asian countries, and that is not from any other country, so it is a cultural phenomenon linked to a particular geographical area. And, of course, the question is how much we have to adapt our legislation to standards and values that they have in a very specific part of the world. We don't see these problems, so you don't take your kids with you when they come from all sorts of other places in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140714	I understand that there are some cases where things look different. However, I am concerned that in our optics, the legislation in some cases contributes to the parents' actions to a large extent affecting children. We basically believe that children have a right to their family.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140729	Thank you to Mrs Anne Marie Geisler Andersen. Then we have reached the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140739	Thank you for the floor. We agree with the proposers that the child's best interests should be weighted in asylum and residence permits cases. We are obliged to do so on the basis of the UN Children's Convention, but also on the basis of ethical considerations. We are doing so as it is now, and we are doing so in the future. The best interests of the child are weighted both in the asylum process itself and in the rules on family reunification. The foreign authorities shall take into account in the proceedings all minors, whether unaccompanied or accompanying minors, or whether asylum or residence is sought and all cases are dealt with individually. The Conservative People's Party supports the rules as they are today. The legislation is working, children have special rights... just as it should be. Even when it comes to the demand for successful integration, we believe that the legislation is as it should be. In relation to the unfortunate cases that have been mentioned recently in the media, we believe that it should be possible to grant exemptions if there are cases where it is quite obvious that girls or boys are so well integrated that it does not make sense to send them back to their home country. We also agree that parents should be much, much better informed from the outset. But that is not what this resolution is about. In the Conservative People's Party, we still believe that there should be strict rules in this area. Parents should not be able to send their children on reeducation trips or koran schools in their home country because they have become too Danish. Parents should not, in general, leave their children in their country of origin longer than is necessary. It is to oppose integration itself. That is why the rules we have in this area today are good and right. That is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214140948	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader, and warmly welcome to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214141003	I would like to thank you for the debate, which reflects a deep interest in this issue, for which I think all the rapporteurs should be thanked. Because it's important what we're discussing. It is in itself, but also in relation to some of the matters that we have also discussed on other occasions in this Chamber. Both the Minister and the governing parties say that the best interests of the child have already been taken into account today. It is also true that it is there if you look at the text of the law. One of the things we have been concerned with continually is that we have a legal text on the one hand, which actually takes it into account, and on the other hand we can find a number of examples where we do not think it is being practiced in this way. That can then be dealt with in different ways. Perhaps you can get a different practice, and I also think it might be an opportunity here that, in the way you administer the legislation, you can give greater weight to the child's best interests. For there are a number of priorities to be made, a number of weightings to be applied: what should affect whether it and that family should have a residence permit, etc.? What we then imagine to be an opportunity is simply to clarify it in the legislation so that it will play a stronger role. There we are open to discussing different ways of doing this. For us, it is important that in the actual implementation, in the actual practice of the administrative authorities, greater emphasis is placed on the best interests of the child, also because the Convention on the Rights of the Child must play a role in these issues. In addition, there is the question of greater transparency in the procedure. We discussed this a great deal here on Wednesday in connection with a question we had there following on from the so-called Mint case. There, too, we think we had a very good discussion on this, and I understand that the Minister will call for negotiations with at least some parties on how to do more about it. We understood that the Socialists were very concerned about transparency on that occasion, and we think it is very reasonable that we should have greater transparency in these matters, so that we do not have a quite incomprehensible view of decisions which, to put it mildly, seem strange if we take seriously the best interests of the child into the assessments of the various cases. I will not be able to say whether these negotiations lead to anything, but in any case I think it would be good if we were to work further on the basis of the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF and which we have discussed here today. I am pleased with the positive reports that have come from several parties, for example from the Social Democratic Party. I think that was a very fine speech, sir. Mattias Tesfaye held. Whether or not we are going to vote on this, I do not know. I have tabled resolutions on a regular basis in this Chamber and do not always think they should be put to the vote. They can also be used for a discussion and for that discussion to be concluded with a report in committee. It is often more constructive and often gives more substance than just sending a motion for a vote where you can just like lift the tab and say: Ha, ha, you voted against. I'm more concerned that you get some politics done. If we in the committee can find out how to get a report on these things, where we might set up some principles for transparency, i.e. transparency, where we might get a little closer to how the best interests of the child can get more clearly into the way in which the legislation is managed, perhaps in the text itself, and if we manage the things that are here at all, I think it might be interesting. We are very much involved in working on this in committee after we have had the first reading here today. However, as I said, thank you for the debate. I hope we can continue to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214141444	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no brief comments and I do not see any more who have asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. If none of you object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214141504	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214141541	I have to say, and nobody is surprised that we do not support the government's proposal to remove the subsidy for the number of refugee and immigrant young people in the post-schools. We believe that post-schools benefit integration in Denmark. We try in every way to get different groups of people to come and use our afterschools, and therefore it doesn't make any sense to cut back here either. Instead, it should be possible for more children, both immigrants and refugees and children from socially vulnerable families, to attend post-school education so that they can benefit from the social and professional contributions of the post-schools. The government's proposal is merely a saving exercise in the field of education, which benefits neither young people nor society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214141621	There are no brief comments. So the next rapporteur now to speak is Mr Beazley. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214141634	Thank you for that, President. Unlike the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party can say that we strongly support this bill. After all, this is not just about immigrants and immigrants' children. This is a trade, for example. the fact that smaller post-schools will be able to receive a new geographical grant in addition to the basic grant they are receiving today and in addition to the taximeter grant for individual pupils. This means that we are going to support afterschools, especially in rural areas outside large cities, because it is there that often have afterschools with fewer pupils. Secondly, we will be supporting afterschools that have many pupils from low-income families. The draft law is formulated in such a way that it is pupils from the ten lowest income groups, and these post-schools also receive more, and it is then distributed internally among the post-schools, which is also good. So the bill supports rural post-schools with few pupils, and it supports post-schools that have many pupils from low income groups, and the third is that the bill stops discrimination. Today it is the case that you have a certain origin or ethnicity you get a special subsidy. If you don't, you don't get any special supplements. Now we say that everyone can receive the same grant, whether you are a Dane or from Serbia. The bill writes: for immigrants from non-western countries and Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Croatia and Macedonia, as well as the descendants of immigrants from these countries, including refugees covered by the law on the integration of foreigners into Denmark and the children of these refugees, the special grant is simply abolished, so that they are now equal to ethnic Danish pupils, and so that it is not a lie, we also save 10 million. kr. a year. So all in all, an excellent bill, which we warmly support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214141858	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So the next rapporteur we are to welcome is Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214141913	Thank you for that, President. As Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the rapporteur for education, is unfortunately unable to be present in the Chamber today, I have promised to read the speech on her behalf. With this bill, we are changing the grant rules for the post-schools. The new model is based on the wish of the Afterschool Association and will ensure that smaller post-schools receive relatively more in grants than the larger post-schools. In other words, with this bill, we are holding our hands under the smaller post-schools and providing them with an even better and stronger basis of existence. In addition, we target the funds for individual supplementary student support, so that afterschools with many pupils from low-income families are accommodated. With this initiative, we ensure that the post-schools are more likely to be available to everyone. In addition, the draft law proposes that the special grant for post-schools for immigrants from selected countries and their descendants be abolished. In this way, the pupils are treated in the same way as other pupils. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214142021	Thank you. Welcome to sir. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20181214142027	Thank you. I would like to say that I think it really is a pity that, on a Friday afternoon, we are going to be dealing with a proposal aimed at reducing the ability of the post-schools to make an active contribution to integration. I believe that any of us who know just a little about the post-school world can easily see what the post-schools can actually contribute in relation to young people with refugee or immigrant backgrounds. Being part of an afterschool community, where in everyday life you get very close to dedicated teachers and other adults, the fact that you are with young ethnic Danes, have spoken and listened to the Danish language almost 24 hours a day, not only provides insight into Danish associations and everyday culture, but it is also a unique opportunity to make friends and friendships across the cultural differences that exist. Afterschools, at least many of them, can make a significant difference to young people with refugee or immigrant backgrounds, and I think there is every reason to do everything we can to involve them more in the integration effort than we are doing today. Instead, the government is doing the opposite with this proposal. It removes the additional tariff that schools are currently receiving in order to solve the many additional tasks that are involved. I'm not going to go through them in detail. It's so brilliantly done in the Afterschool Association's hearing response. I just want to say that these are additional resources, such as: will be used to handle the many tasks ranging from increased administration to supporting young people who have a background where they have experienced violent war traumas, escape experiences, abuse, violence, and what do I know? I simply think that is incomprehensible. We often disagree very much on how the integration effort is to work, but I actually often think that there is much talk from all sides of the Danish Parliament about the importance of integration, and I think it is quite incomprehensible that the government will put a brake on the commitment of a number of post-school integration efforts. I must also say that there is absolutely no argument in favour of the proposal. I do not know whether I looked with anticipation, yet curious to see what the argument really was. And it is true that there is quite simply a finding that the cancellation of subsidies is part of a priority for expenditure policy. And then you add insult to injury by adding that it equates students with refugee and immigrant backgrounds with other pupils in the post-schools. I mean, I just think it's too bad. If you think that the post-schools should not contribute to the integration effort, then I really think that it would have dressed the government just to say it plainly, so you do not think that the post-schools should, instead of just saying that it is part of an expenditure policy priority. I think that, apart from the content of the proposal, it is simply too bad to dare not stand up and actually argue in favour of the content of the proposal. I guess it's made like a political deal that I think, to put it mildly, is unsightly. We cannot complain enough in the Enhedslisten, and I hope that after an election there will be a majority in favour of us being able to reinstate the special supplementary tariff for the post-schools as soon as possible. And then, for the sake of fairness, I must say that we are actually positive about the other elements of the proposal. That is why I think it is worth considering, in other words, that we might like to take part, together with others, in making a proposal that we share the proposal so that we can agree with the other elements, but in return we will have an opportunity to vote against the proposal in relation to the removal of the additional tariff. If it is not possible to divide up the proposal, the Enhedslisten will vote against the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214142457	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound, and a warm welcome to Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214142504	Thank you for that, President. There's, like, sir. Jakob Silverhøj also mentioned several elements of the bill here. One of them is to introduce a geographical school offer that strengthens the economy of the smaller post-schools, so that we ensure wide geographical coverage and also in the future have both large and small post-schools. Then there is one element which is the abolition of the supplementary tariff for post-schools for immigrants and descendants of immigrants. And we think that this is a sensible approach, that is to say that there is neither positive nor negative discrimination, but only good treatment. Immigrants and descendants of immigrants must have as good opportunities to attend post-school as ethnic Danes • neither better nor worse. And that is why, of course, we support the bill. I would also like to say hello to Conservatives, even though I see that Mr. Naser Khader sits down there, but I have been asked to do so at least, and now I do it for safety and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214142619	Thank you. And a warm welcome to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214142625	Thank you. In the alternative, we do not support this bill as it stands right now. In fact, fully in line with the Enhedslisten, we would also like to propose that we divide up the legislative proposal, because there are some elements that we can very much support: the elements that relate to the geographical school grant, that is to say, that support will be targeted to the smaller schools, and also to the individual supplementary pupil support, namely that the grant is distributed so as to give priority to the secondary schools with low-income families rather than to others. We think these are two fantastic proposals. But then there is the third element of this bill, namely that the special post-school grant will be abolished in relation to refugee/immigrant children. And that's so tragic, because we all know that I don't think anyone has read stories about it ■ how fantastic an integration task, afterschools promises. And I know that there is one party in the Danish Parliament that does not want us to integrate, but there are eight others, I think at least as far as I am informed, who want us to spend funds and powder and energy on integration in Denmark. So I think it is really a pity that we are standing here with a proposal that actually takes away a supersuccessful integration task. Then you can disagree about everything else, about influx, and what I know, but the fact is that the post-schools are lifting a huge integrality task. So I'm on the same page as Mr. Simpson. Jakob Silverhøj, when I think it is just so unfortunate that this bill has been allowed to find its way through and is also part of the Finance Act. Sir. Jakob Silverhøj mentioned what it really is that the post-schools indicate that they cannot now do the same if they do not get this special grant. And I would just like to mention some of that because it actually has consequences for a lot of children. You say that means increased administration, among other things. to complex psychological problems and to the physical problems of refugees, costs of Danish teaching for bilinguals, because you do not get the supplementary tariff for Danish teaching if the students do not have a permanent stay. After all, the Afterschool Association has agreed with the government on an objective for immigrant children, which they should like to take in and help integrate. So it is very strange that such an objective should be agreed and that the government should at the same time go in and cut off the special aid. So that's really too bad. I would like to help try to split up this bill, because we can support the other two elements. However, we are clearly opposed to the removal of the special grant for refugee/immigrant children.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214142903	Thank you very much. And a warm welcome to Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214142910	Thank you. The draft law proposes an annual geographical school grant, and the idea is to take account of both small and large post-schools and thus the spread of post-schools across the country. That's a really good idea. On the basis of a sustainability principle, a special way of balancing the number of pupils has been made so as to understand that if there are fewer than 38 pupils in the secondary school, the school grant is reduced by an amount per year. Years of study under 38, because it has to be sustainable. That is, in fact, true. We can support that. Then there will be a new proposal for grants for individual supplementary student support, and that is also provided for in the Finance Act, as the two previous ones have done. It is a question of looking at how large a number of year-olds are from families with the ten lowest income ranges which are then mentioned and referred to in a section of the law, and it is also an attempt to give parents who do not have as much money as other parents an opportunity to send their child to elementary school, because elementary school can compensate for these things. Then comes the interesting thing, and that is that we must now abolish the special subsidy which I myself once helped to introduce in this Chamber, and that is a subsidy for immigrants and descendants from certain countries. It is from non-western countries and Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Croatia and Macedonia that it is a powerful public education case, this and the descendants of immigrants from these countries, including refugees covered by the law on the integration of foreigners into Denmark and the children of these refugees. It's actually the best integration machine at all in experience, if you can afford to call this a machine. It just works, and it's a very, very positive experience for everyone who has to do with these kids and young people and the society we live in. So that's why it's really sad. And the position of the Radical Left on this proposal will depend on the answers I get to the questions that I am going to ask during the discussion of this bill. So we have to come back to that at second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214143151	Thank you. Is it true that...
ParlaMint-DK_20181214143202	Oh, I'm sorry! I forgot a sentence. I forgot, and I very much regret that, from the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Jacob Mark states that the SF does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214143212	Thank you for that information. Is it true that Mr. Naser Khader is not the rapporteur on this matter? Then we can go to the Minister for Education, who now has the opportunity to answer the questions. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214143228	First of all, I would like to thank the parties that support this bill. A post-school stay is a unique offer to many young people, and for many it is an experience for life. The stay helps to form and mature young people and strengthen their personal development, and at the same time schools can give young people a professional boost. There are many different afterschools to choose from across the country, and some schools have many pupils, while others are smaller with fewer pupils. The government wants it to continue to be the case that pupils in all parts of the country must be able to choose between smaller and larger post-schools. With the proposal for a new geographical school grant, we are increasing the economic scope for smaller secondary schools. We therefore target state funds for smaller post-schools to support that there is still a basis for establishing and running post-schools of different sizes and in all parts of the country. This ensures that there will continue to be a wide range of post-schools. In addition, the government also proposes to target the funds for the individual supplementary student support for those afterschools where most of the pupils are from low-income families. In this way, we ensure that the post-schools remain an opportunity for all young people. Under the current rules, in-service schools receive individual supplementary student support on the basis of the total number of pupils in the school, regardless of the level of income of the parent group. In future, afterschools, where most of the pupils are from low-income families, will receive a greater share of the funds for individual supplementary student support. In concrete terms, this means that in future the post-schools will also be able to reduce the student fees for pupils from economically deprived families. We propose the redistribution and targeting of these funds to support the possibility of a post-school stay as an option for all young people. Thirdly, the government proposes to abolish the additional tariff for post-schools for immigrants and descendants from certain countries. The proposal to abolish the additional tariff for immigrants and descendants is part of the government's overall financial bill for 2019. The additional tariff has been an additional subsidy for the post-schools. Afterschools will continue to receive operating grants from the State for pupils who are immigrants and descendants, in line with the operating grants granted to schools for ethnic Danish pupils. Afterschools, government grants are provided in the form of operating and basic grants, income-based student grants and individual supplementary student grants. This provides good opportunities to ensure that the post-schools are for all regardless of ancestry or household income. With the proposal to abolish the additional tariff, we equate immigrants and descendants with other pupils in secondary schools regardless of their origin. In other words, we are abolishing the positive discrimination against young immigrants and descendants, and this makes the subsidy system fairer for everyone. Whether you are young with ethnic Danish background, or you are young with immigrant background, you can contact the principal at your post-school and apply for individual supplementary student support. We are a bourgeois-liberal government and we take care of citizens' money. This means that we are constantly assessing where the funds are doing the most good, and we have also done so for the additional tariff for post-schools for immigrants and descendants from certain countries. I look forward to any questions that may be raised during the committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214143552	You're welcome. It seems to have been thoroughly elucidated, there are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214143614	We will just breathe until the Minister for Foreign Affairs has arrived in the Chamber and then we will resume the sitting. I want to know if the Minister for Foreign Affairs can give a statement as to when the Minister for Defence will be present. Good. In two minutes? To those who are waiting impatiently at the screens in the country, I would say that what is happening at the moment is that we await the presence of ministers, because we cannot have debates in the Chamber without the ministers being present. At the moment, we need the Secretary of Defense, and I hope he'll be here in two minutes. At least that's what his secretary says. Yes, but that is what we are asking the rapporteurs, because they are the ones who decide it. I would like to know whether the rapporteurs agree that the Minister for Foreign Affairs represents both ministers. I do not hear any protests, which means that the Foreign Minister will represent the entire government or at least the two ministers until there is a full staffing from the Ministry. And then the ministers themselves will have to settle with the rapporteurs in a different way at a different time for this postponement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144158	The debate is open. As I see no rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party, we move on to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144232	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating now must allow Danish naval forces to participate in the task of other NATO countries' national naval forces. Specifically, in 2019 it will be added that a Danish fleet contribution can be a special support ship or one of our frigates... to assist French hangar groups with their task solutions. In such a context one may well ask oneself whether it is a Danish task to contribute to the national tasks of other countries. It's not something like that that right-hand side of the leg. The reason why we still think it is a good idea to allow Danish naval forces to take part in the work is that we think it is sensible that our navy should be trained in cooperation with other NATO countries, which will inevitably be achieved by taking part in these kinds of tasks. There is no doubt that if NATO were to come closer together, that would be the way our forces in the Navy will operate, in other words, in cooperation with the naval forces of other countries. In addition, when we talk about the special support ships and the frigates, we can also say that it is Danish know-how that has built these ships, and these are exceptionally good ships, which it would be good to show before the rest of the world in the event that others could build ships, they might as well be built by Danish companies. However, we have one concern and it may be that the ministers will listen now as we would like clarification in this context. Should we find ourselves in a situation where a Danish ship under French operational control is asked to sail to an area where migrants could be encountered in these very mentioned small, slender boats, and you get the idea that they should be picked up, how is the legal position in relation to that? In other words, can we be obliged to the migrants, or will it be France that takes responsibility for collected migrants that might be encountered in the task of this French hangar group? So we would like clarification on that. But basically we are positive about allowing Danish naval forces to assist our allies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144546	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144549	Thank you very much. As I read this proposal, it is about the concrete contribution to the French fleet, but it is also about moving it forward, so that we no longer take this kind of decision in the Assembly, but that it should only be moved to the Foreign Policy Name. In other words, if there is later talk of sending a contribution to another country's fleet the following year, or when it may be, it is no longer something that we are going to discuss in the Assembly, but is now something that only goes on in the Foreign Policy Name, where it is secret and where people do not have the same opportunity to keep track of what is happening. How does the rapporteur view this? I am very concerned about that. I think it is unnecessary and I think it is important that we have these discussions so much more open. I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144645	There will of course be nothing to prevent you as a party from expressing what you think the Danish fleet is helping other countries. Should new decisions be made on new tasks, it is not easy to hide that this is going to happen. In this way, it will not be secret that we participate. These ships aren't exactly hiding out of the way, and they're not the kind of people who can just take part in missions without you noticing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144714	But that is precisely why I do not think this is something that should just be in the area of foreign policy. That is precisely why it is not very secret when you are sailing around with these big ships that I think the political decision about what we are participating in should be in the Folketing, as it usually is, because whatever you think about the actual discussion, I think it is important that the people have the insight into why we choose to do what we do. I also think the Danish People's Party is usually interested in this, i.e. that we have the open debate on our foreign policy. So I'm a little puzzled that it's not something you're more worried about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144751	I think this is a good surprise, but I am quite convinced that we will have a debate on it, including a public debate. I believe that the Danish press is still so perceptive that it will probably make sure that it inquires about the views of the various political parties that Danish naval forces contribute to the task of solving the problem in the large world.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144815	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jacobsen. Oh, I'm sorry, there was just one more, and that was sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, who made it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144820	Thank you. It is a little the same, because I do not quite understand what the rapporteur is saying. Well, one thing is that the press can of course take an interest in what is happening. Another thing is to have open debates about it. However, does the rapporteur not think that there is a problem in not taking these debates in the open when it comes to fleet contributions, and that this should be done in the name, which is behind closed doors, where you can say what you yourself have said, but not what the debate has been like? In other words, that we are actually taking open debates on this, which is, after all, a major issue, in relation to the fact that the procedure is being changed in this way, is the rapporteur fully involved? Or is this something that the rapporteur also thinks we should examine in more detail in the discussion of this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144900	Everyone is free to ask the puzzling questions they want to ask during the discussion of the proposal. And I understand there may be some concern about that. On the other hand, one must also recognise that some of this is about a changing security image, which means that there are some things that may require us to discuss this in a more closed format. And, of course, as I said, it will be up to each party to provide its own reasons for going into different missions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144935	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214144938	But when you put decisions like this into the name, the problem is that it is only if the minister is out commenting on something that you can say how you have stood. After all, you cannot just go out and mention items from an agenda. And if it is a particular security policy situation that must be confidential, one can always take it into account. But what worries me is the procedural change we are seeing with this resolution. At least that's how I read it, that is to say, you completely saddle up and say that from now on we're just gonna run it over the board. We give carte blanche, and then we don't have to talk about it anymore. I know I will be able to ask all the questions in committee, but it is mostly the position of the Danish People's Party in relation to this procedural change that I am curious about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145018	What makes us in the Danish People's Party perhaps not so worried is that what kind of tasks are we giving our yes to? These are tasks of a defensive nature, so it would require some to choose actively to attack Danish ships in order for there to be a fight. And at the moment that it is decided that Danish ships should participate in offensive tasks, it would require a mandate, a new mandate. So that way, we're insured, and we think this is a sound model.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145057	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jacobsen, and then it's mr. Peter Juel-Jensen as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145106	Thank you for that, President. With this resolution, the government seeks the support of the Folketing for a Danish naval contribution to be deployed in NATO countries' national naval forces for up to 12 months at a time. Such a contribution will contribute to the resolution of maritime safety tasks and to the defence of the naval force itself, as well as possible airspace coordination and control. Specifically, Denmark will contribute a frigate to a French carrier group in connection with its deployment from end-February to mid-May 2019. The Danish contribution to the French carrier group will consist of a frigate of the Ivar Huitfeldt class and a total crew of up to approx. 160 people. Furthermore, two liaison officers are temporarily seconded to the French carrier and to the French military headquarters in Paris. This resolution therefore ensures further Danish involvement in NATO, while ensuring the training of Danish units to solve tasks under difficult conditions, as well as ensuring maritime safety as an important maritime nation. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145224	There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145227	It's kind of the same again: well, why can't we just go on with what we usually do, I almost said? This proposal, like both the specific one concerning the emissary to the French fleet, and the fact that we stop having approval of participation in other naval forces, that is to say, that we should not approve in the Folketing, but only do so in the Name. Why should we not just continue to do what we have done so far, so that it is the Folketing that has to take care of it? It's a big thing, I think, if you send your fleet out to join another country's fleet. I think it makes sense for us to have democratic openness on this. What is it that makes the Left think it is a good idea to change the procedure that has worked well so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145313	Perhaps I do not see the same ghosts as the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. We don't send out daily, but at least weekly Danish units on practice around the kingdom. Now we send a Danish ship outside the country's borders to participate, both to train, but also to maintain law and order on the oceans. I don't see anything particularly obnoxious about that. And it is also the case that, thank God, we have a defence that is very, very open, so instead of focusing on the defence debates in the Parliamentary Chamber, you might just go in and look at the defence website, and then you can be informed about what is happening here. I don't see that the name in this way should have any extra powers. I don't see that as a form of secrecy, or that you're kept out of it, I see it as due care with both time and money, and then you take this with an authority for one year at a time. I don't see anything obnoxious in it in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145414	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145416	But it is quite clear, I think, from the draft law that it is said that the Folketing should no longer approve this, that it should no longer be dealt with in the Parliamentary Assembly. I think that this is an important thing. Then you can agree with that. There are, for example: I think it is important that we have the discussion here in Parliament. After all, it is not every week or every two weeks that we send out the Navy. It's a slightly larger operation. So it's probably not that often that we get overburdened with it. I think there is something weird in principle about removing these resolutions from the Chamber, because it is precisely about our foreign policy and our defence, and I think that is important. It's our political responsibility in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145506	I do not disagree that it is our political responsibility; it will then be solved elsewhere, but it is not because we dedicate ourselves to the possibility of being able to change the mandate. If what is needed is a strengthening of the mandate we are giving here, then that means that if we are going to embark on a dangerous mission, the mandate must come from this Chamber, and then it should not come through the name. In my view, this is about the fact that, as a maritime nation, we are helping to ensure that international rules are respected on the oceans. We train a ship's crew, we exercise some chain of command with some liaison officers, etc., and we further contribute to ensuring that we are stronger in the foundation of Danish foreign and security policy, namely NATO. I do not see any danger in this at all; on the contrary, I see it as we are running and practicing a very, very important unit in our defences.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145557	With that, we thank Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen. And then we jump back in the line of rapporteurs and give room for Mr. Nick Hækkerup, the Social Democratic Party, which is now in place in the Assembly Hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145612	Of course, I must start by regretting the fact that I was engaged elsewhere and was therefore slightly delayed. On the other hand, I certainly hope that what I am going to say was worth waiting for. And it really starts with the fact that historically a country's ultimate means of power is to be able to defend itself against other countries or, for that matter, to be able to throw itself over countries. It just won't be long before you think: we'd probably be better off there if we were with somebody else. This is particularly the case if you are a small country, alliances and cooperation, etc. And today it is really difficult and that is what is interesting to imagine that Denmark would be in a real crisis situation and would be acting militarily alone for anything other than a very short period of time. This applies to the defence of ourselves in our own area, in Danish territory, and that is why we are so happy and committed to NATO, and especially to Article 5. And that is also true in the great world. The prerequisite for effective military operation is to achieve what is called interoperability, so that we can operate together. And the resolution that we have before us is really concrete and generally about creating the conditions for the Danish defence to achieve such a degree of interoperability, as has also been mentioned by rapporteurs before me, through contributions with a frigate to the French carrier group in the period February to May 2019, and more generally through the deployment of Danish naval forces in other NATO countries' naval forces for up to 12 months, in the case of maritime security tasks and regular sailing, including co-training. This could be done with the government's consultation with Foreign Policy Name, and if there are other initiatives, the actual participation will require the assent of the Danish Parliament. Social democracy can fully support the resolution before us, first of all because the Danish Navy benefits from being able to operate with other naval forces, which will most likely become the reality if a real crisis occurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145838	Thank you very much, sir. Nick Hækkerup. Mrs Flyvholm has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145844	Sorry, we were just discussing the proposal. I'd like to hear about something. Now Mr. Nick Hækkerup, that it's good to work with others. I'm sure it is. But here's the thing about us making a decision with this proposal. In other words, if this is adopted here, a decision will also be taken that this participation in the fleet forces of other countries should not be discussed in Parliament, as I see it, unless, of course, it is a very offensive situation, because then it will of course have to be discussed, but otherwise exercises that can come forward will only have to be approved in the Name. How does the Social Democratic Party view this? It is not just the specific exercise that we are discussing here. It's a slightly wider opening. What is the position of the Social Democratic Party in relation to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214145944	I simply believe that the reading of the resolution is wrong. For what determines where our military engagement around the world is to be determined is actually governed by the Basic Law, namely Paragraph 19 (1) of the Constitution. Article 19 (2) and Article 19 (2) 3. Either the Foreign Policy Name after paragraph 1 shall be stated. In the case of decisions of major importance, or in the case of decisions of major importance, or in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article, the Commission shall be informed and consulted respectively. 2 in the case of deployment of military forces. And a motion for a resolution cannot push it forward. It goes without saying that a resolution cannot change the constitution. It is, of course, regulated by other and much more cumbersome procedures. I think the question is relevant and I think it is appropriate to put it to the Minister, because my reading of the proposal is that what we are saying here is that we have done this a few times now. Well, we can see that's relevant. There has been broad agreement on this. We in the Danish Parliament would like to shake hands with the idea that we regard everything else as a good idea. But you can't displace the procedures.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150048	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150049	I am really glad that the rapporteur says that. The other times when this has been discussed, it has been precisely a decision in the Folketing. It also means that this proposal now says that we should not do that in the future. It's only the name that's gonna have to nod to it. That is why it would certainly be a change of practice, if you say so. I think that we need to cultivate a little further what this will mean for the future. But I see it as such that the Social Democratic Party also wants this to be something that should be approved by the Danish Parliament or how should I perceive it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150135	Social democracy basically believes that the constitution must be respected. I think most of the Danish Parliament's parties think so. And a motion for a resolution cannot depart from the procedural rules of the Constitution, of course it is not possible to do so. But what we can do in the Folketing is that we can look each other in the eye and say that we basically think this is a good idea; do we imagine that this is something that is going to happen in the future, and will we be positive? That is basically what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150202	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Nick Hækkerup, and it is precisely Mrs Eva Flyvholm who is the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150218	Thank you very much. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we cannot support this proposal, because as I read it, there are two elements in it: one is specifically about whether Denmark can send out a contribution to the French fleet next year; and the other is this decision that is being made that we stop doing as usual. Now there have been times when a decision has been made in the Danish Parliament that Danish contributions should be sent out to other countries' naval forces, and we must stop discussing this in the Parliamentary Assembly. Instead, it is just something that needs to be presented in what is called Foreign Policy Name. That is how I have understood the draft law, and the Minister is very happy to help clarify this, of course. But if that is the case, then I have to say from the Enhedslisten that we think that, when we are dealing precisely with our defence, and when we are dealing with our foreign policy, it is important that we have the discussion in the Assembly and not just in the Foreign Policy Name, unless, of course, there are situations where there is something that needs to be kept secret. There may be some sense in that, but as was also mentioned before, it is often not so super secret when you send the fleet off. So it's often pretty clear what's going on there are some pretty big ships we're dealing with. So it is my wish to say that we have an ongoing approval of these operations individually and separately in the Assembly, because I think it is important. And I do not think that it will be so many contributions after all that the workload for the Folketing will be excessive. But as a starting point we cannot support it on the part of the Enhedslisten, because there is also this further opening to moving more things from the Parliamentary Chamber to the Name. So I would like to say about the Danish contribution to the French fleet at all: what is to be done down there? I think that is a little vaguely described in the motion for a resolution here. I mean, we're just being told that it's in the Mediterranean, the Red Sea, the Gulf of Aden, the Arab Sea, the northern Indian Ocean and the Persian Gulf where this operation can take place. But I think we need to get a little more explanation of what it really is that Denmark is supposed to be doing, in particular, as part of the French mission there. The situation is relatively high, especially in relation to Syria. It is very important that we get a little more knowledge of what lies in it, I think. And that is one of the things I hope the Minister can shed light on in this Chamber too today, and we will of course also be asking questions about it. I have a further question too. It says in relation to the French that the Danish contribution will be subject to international law, including international humanitarian law, and then it says: as appropriate. What is the extent to which it is relevant? I think I would like answers to that, too. So I hope the Minister will be able to follow up on that. However, as a starting point we cannot support this proposal from the Enhedslisten, because I actually think there is a shift in a discussion which I think we should have at any time in the Assembly, to the Foreign Policy Name, which is, after all, surrounded by something more secrecy. This means that there is not such a good opportunity for the public to have an insight into these decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150600	Wait a minute. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nick Hækkerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150602	If there is no such shift of competence, what is the position of Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150611-2	In other words, if there is not that shift of powers, it is clear that I will then be a little less angry. I think it is quite essential to have a clearer picture of what we really need to do in relation to the actual deployment of the French fleet.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150629	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150631	But if there isn't that shift of competence that I don't think there is and that we need to clarify whether there is, is Enhedslisten so ■ because I understood from the opening remarks that it is basically in favour of us working together in favour of this saying: yes, we can see our fleet vessels around us in cooperation with other countries, also forward-looking?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150656-2	Yes, I think we can, in other words forward-looking, send our fleet vessels out in cooperation with other countries, if it is some missions that we think are sensible. That is why I think there is a need for more knowledge about it. Well, there have been cases that were so under UN command where the Danish Navy helped remove chemical weapons both in Libya and in Syria, and I think that was insanely good that we could contribute, right? Of course, there are plenty of international tasks that we can work together on, including with other countries, but we need to have some more clarity about that. I can be a little more concerned about this French, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150730	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150739	Thank you for that, President. Denmark, as I remember, has the sixth largest merchant fleet in the world, and that is why it is of course very important that we can benefit from what is called freedom of navigation, that is the freedom to sail, on the oceans of the world, and that is not a matter of course. There have been problems in the past with pirates in the Gulf of Aden, and at present the South China Sea is also discussed and other situations can be imagined. That is why it is, of course, very reasonable, from our point of view, that we are precisely helping to ensure that commercial ships continue, as has been stated, for example. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea can sail on the open oceans. It is reasonable that we should help to maintain the status quo, including through the capacity of the fleet, and therefore, of course, we support the resolution. At the same time, it is also important that the various defences can operate effectively with NATO and that we tell NATO not only with words but also with deeds that these are tasks that we take very seriously. So we therefore support the resolution to contribute one of our frigates to the French carrier group. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150908	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. And then we reached Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214150918	Thank you. I have to admit that I have been reading this motion for a resolution a number of times, and I have some doubts, if I am to be quite honest, about what we are dealing with. For if we decide to respond to the French request, that is one thing. But another thing that I am thinking about when I read what the resolution is really about, and that was mentioned by Mrs Flyvholm, is whether it is a change of procedure in relation to this, and I think that is quite important to find out. If it is a motion for a resolution that has been tabled so that we can applaud the fact that we are taking part in this request from France, then that is one thing. We change the procedure so that we no longer discuss it in the Parliamentary Chamber, as we have done in the two resolutions referred to in the remarks, but discuss it over in the Foreign Policy Name behind closed doors, but that is another thing. So we need clarification in the committee work on how much new there is in this. Is it just about responding to a request, or is it about changing the procedure? Our position on this will depend on the answers we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214151027	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then it's Anne Marie Geisler Andersen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214151037	Thank you. The proposal has been well explained, so I shall be relatively brief. As you know, the Radical Left is involved in the defence settlement, and we are also very much in favour of NATO cooperation, which is why we support this proposal as a starting point. However, as Enhedslisten also mentioned, it would be nice to see what the first action is more concrete, or more precisely: what tasks will the frigate contribute to solving in the French carrier group? With regard to the issue raised by both the Alternative and the Enhedslist, we would like to support radically that this is something that we will have a slightly more detailed discussion of, possibly during the committee procedure, unless the Minister can give a clear answer to that here and now. In this context, however, we also attach crucial importance to the proper involvement of the Danish Parliament if the entire fleet force, of which the Danish contribution may be part, is deployed in support of other interventions, not least offensive operations. However, as I have said, we are immediately in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214151140	Thank you to Mrs Anne Marie Geisler Andersen. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214151152	I must confess that when I took up this proposal in our parliamentary group, I had to say that I had some doubts as to what we should vote for it, because I think there are some ambiguities in it. I was therefore given a very open mandate, so I can really be persuaded and convinced in this debate if you are interested in it. First of all, it's a little hard to see what's the deeper meaning of this, what's the purpose of this. Having read the proposal, I believe, if I am to be quite honest and clear, that it is a question of making some exercise activities with another NATO country more capable of operating with other NATO countries in maritime military operations, and that this is very important in practice. In reality, this is in line with what is often done within NATO. You have such different operations where you work together, and in this case we have to decide here in the Folketing that we go together with the French fleet in an operation in different places. If that is what this is all about, we think it is very sensible, but I certainly think that some concerns have been raised which we should take seriously, for example. If there is a shift in the decision-making procedure and if that means that we can get into actual combat operations without having to discuss it here in the Parliamentary Chamber. But we still have a war clause in the Constitution. There are still provisions in the Constitution, etc. which cannot be avoided, and it is also clear from the motion for a resolution that the Folketing can be involved if necessary and if the situation is so. That is very important to say. I certainly think that we should have it dealt with in committee so that we can have more clarity about the ambiguities that have emerged here. I think everyone should be safe knowing what they are going to do. But as a starting point, we're positive about this. I don't know how much that means. I've asked you a few times, including in the Name: Where is the beef? What is it you have to do and what is the point of it? But if you're supposed to be a little more capable of operating within NATO, that's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214151442	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Then there will be room on the platform for Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214151452	Thank you. NATO is the backbone of Danish defence, and we have a great interest in a strong North Atlantic defence alliance. That is why I am pleased that the government's decision gives us the opportunity to strengthen maritime safety through the Danish contribution. Just last year, maritime exports increased by almost 13%. in relation to the year before, and today Denmark is the sixth largest maritime nation in the world. We have any interest in free and secure shipping routes. There are others who have asked: What is it for? It says under the operating area that the operation area of the Danish naval contribution, while included in the French carrier group in 2019, will include the Mediterranean, the Red Sea, the Gulf of Aden, the Arab Sea. After all, there are real challenges at the moment, especially as a consequence of what is happening in Yemen, the Gulf of Aden, which is, after all, linked to the southern part of the Red Sea, where many merchant ships pass through, and that is why we believe that this is a necessary contribution. But the resolution is not only important because we have to ensure orderly relations with water, it is also important because we send a strong signal to our allies that we are ready when we are needed, and we are doing so in Denmark. We do not take our security for granted, and that is why we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214151632	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then we have reached the ministers and the first is the Foreign Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214151640	Thank you for that, thank you for the debate, and thank the rapporteurs who have indicated immediately that they would support the motion for a resolution. Holger K. Nielsen, because he interpreted the text so precisely that there is hardly anything to be done for me. Denmark is one of the world's largest maritime nations. Free and safe shipping is a key foundation for Danish trade with the rest of the world, and the merchant fleet we have is responsible for a large part of our export earnings. But maritime security cannot be taken for granted. We are at a time when the global security policy picture is changing with increasing speed and with unprecedented unpredictability. The dynamic security situation increases the need for multinational maritime cooperation between close allies, and therefore the government wants to strengthen global maritime security through Danish contributions to NATO countries' national naval forces. The primary purpose of the Danish naval contributions will be co-training and co-operation with NATO allies and other partners. By doing so, we particularly strengthen the Navy's ability to engage in complex maritime operations and cooperate. At the same time, we are strengthening defence policy relations with a number of our main NATO allies. The government wants similar deployments of Danish fleet contributions to take place in the future at regular intervals. In the first place, Denmark has been invited to contribute a frigate to a French carrier group in 2019. The frigate will be deployed in support of the French flagship carrier Charles de Gaulle. The Danish frigate will be part of the overall defence of the carrier group and will at the same time contribute to building a situation and threat picture around the group. In addition, Danish participation in the French carrier group is expected to strengthen the interest of other allies in future Danish co-operation with their respective naval forces, especially in the United States and Great Britain, which have similar capabilities. There is no doubt that the Danish frigates and Danish maritime expertise are in demand. We cannot rule out from the outset that other units of the naval forces will have the task of participating in operations that are not known to us at this stage. If this happens, the Danish Parliament will be duly involved if a Danish fleet contribution is to be allowed to remain in the naval forces. If, on the other hand, the Folketing is not properly involved, for example if the Folketing has not previously agreed to participate in an operation, or that there is no possibility of involving the Folketing before a given operation takes place, then Danish fleet contributions will be issued by the naval force both organisationally and physically during the period in question. Thus, the Danish fleet contribution will also withdraw from the fleet force if doubts arise as to whether the Folketing has been duly involved. In addition, it is noted that the Danish fleet contributions will not have a mandate to participate in offensive operations by virtue of this resolution. This resolution will therefore only authorise Danish contributions to solve maritime safety tasks, defend the naval force and contribute to airspace coordination and control. Let me conclude by saying that in more uncertain times it is important to show that Denmark not only has the ability, but of course also has the will to contribute further to global maritime security together with close allies. Free shipping benefits everyone, not least a trading and shipping nation like Denmark. Finally, I would also like to say that I welcome the broad support that has been expressed today. It sends, I think, an important signal to our allies, to the Navy, to our sailors and to shipping.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152035	Thank you very much. There are brief comments. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152037	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs could reveal a little more about what tasks the frigate will have to take part in during the period of cooperation with the French fleet, because that is not very clearly described here, I would say. So what could it do, for example? be for some tasks? Where are we going to be, and what are we helping with? Well, it's a carrier that has about 40 fighters, etc. It is clear that you cannot say quite what kind of operations it is, but I am interested in hearing what the expectation is for, what it is that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152119	Thank you for the question. First of all, it is important to stress that these are not offensive measures which will be taken in the course of this debate. Then what's left? Then there is what I think is also apparent, that is to say, that you can participate in the defence of the naval force, and that is to say, the use of force according to section 19 paragraph 19 of the Constitution. 2. Right now, the threat is low. There is no indication that you should get into that situation. In addition, in relation to maritime security, it is the maritime situation and threat picture. It is the guarantee of free navigation, and it may be done by helping with escorts of ships in risky waters. Then it is in relation to airspace coordination and control. Radars must help maintain a common situational picture, i.e. an overview picture, and then monitor and coordinate air traffic around the naval force. I think it is quite dignified that we are dealing with here, which is entirely within the framework of what one might imagine one could contribute to positive and constructively.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152230	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152231	But what I am fishing for a little bit is a little more, what the expectation is actually for, what the French carrier group will be doing during the period when we will then be retraining etc. and do the tasks along the way. Well, what kind of overall mission do you actually participate in? I think that is politically relevant, one might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152252	Well, it is the case that when a French carrier group is sailing, it is always operationally deployed, but we are not. And if France wants to take part in an operation that we do not want to participate in, we can simply withdraw from the carrier group.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152309	Sir. Jeppe Jacobsen for the next brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152311	Thank you. I want to know whether the Foreign Minister has been in dialogue with France about what would happen if, during this task solution, migrants were to come to the rescue of the Mediterranean, whether it would be the French Government that took responsibility for this or whether it would be Denmark that, if they were taken on a Danish ship, had some obligations to these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152341	I think I will refer to that in technical replies, and it is the Minister for Defence who is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152349	The next question is Mrs Anne Marie Geisler Andersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152351	Thank you. As I hear the Minister, it sounds almost as if all the fleet contributions that we had to send out in this connection have to pass the Folketing. Is that correct or are there going to be cases where, on the basis of this resolution, we can postpone fleet contributions to NATO ally forces without going past the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152412	It is the case that the government will consult with the Foreign Policy Name prior to the insertion of any new Danish contributions into the naval forces of other NATO countries. At the same time, I also think it is worth reminding you that the task description alone authorises Danish contributions to solve maritime security tasks, to be part of the defence of naval forces and to contribute to airspace coordination and control, as I mentioned in the review I made before. The Danish fleet contribution will not have a mandate to participate in offensive operations by virtue of this motion for a resolution. At the same time, the government considers that more often than in the past there will be a need for deployments that strengthen cooperation through training with close allies, and that is why we are putting in place this procedure here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152500	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152502	I am a little curious about what I also raised as a question in my rapporteur's speech, namely whether there is a procedural change with this motion for a resolution. I notice that we are taking a position on a very specific matter, just as we have done with B 56 from February 2017 and so on, but we have taken these decisions in the past, and it is just as if there is a change of procedure here. I just ask the question whether this is how this resolution should be read when it says in the comments: 'The government will consult the Foreign Policy Name prior to the inclusion of additional Danish contributions in other NATO countries', it is opening up something that is not about the contribution requested by the French, and therefore I am curious whether it is a new procedure that the government is launching with this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152558	I think the closest thing I can do is say that it is very similar to the way we deal with, for example. Baltic Air Fishing on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152606	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152608	So it is a new procedure that the government is proposing since this motion for a resolution is tabled?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152616	I don't think you can do it this way. We are putting forward this resolution to ensure that if there are any requests in the future, we are obliged to go through the Foreign Policy Name. If it is outside the mandate that lies here, then of course we must always be in the Parliamentary Chamber, that is, if it is about offensive action.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152633	Then we say thank you to the Secretary of State. Then we need to put the Secretary of Defense on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214152648	Fleet forces are typically composed of the task to be accomplished by the naval force and may, in principle, consist of all types of naval ships from the participating countries. In the same way that Denmark today regularly contributes to NATO's standing naval forces, which do not participate in carriers, it can be imagined that other NATO countries, in order to solve specific tasks, such as escorting ships in risky areas or evacuation operations of civilians in crisis areas, are putting together naval forces which do not include a carrier ship. Several major NATO countries are in possession of larger naval vessels, which will be the platform for a larger number of helicopters that can solve many kinds of tasks, while the ship itself needs the protection of other more mobile naval vessels. In this case, the Hangarship Group is not previously dedicated to one operation, but will be able to be deployed flexibly from the French side. However, France has indicated that one of the carrier's expected operational tasks will be to support the coalition's action against ISIL. The Danish ship will be part of the carrier group during regular sailing and co-training and, if it is included in support of the coalition's action against ISIL, NATO operation • Sea Guardian and the like. In the same way that a Danish frigate was broadcast in an American carrier group in 2017, the defence will send a description of the Danish mandate to the French headquarters in connection with the Danish frigate operating in the French carrier group. In addition, throughout the period, the defence will be in close dialogue with the French fleet, among others. staff officers will be exchanged between the Danish frigate and the carrier, so the Navy will have an officer placed at the leadership of the carrier group during the voyage. In addition, the defense will send a staff officer to the French military headquarters. If the carrier group is planned to be deployed in operations going beyond the scope of the Danish mandate, Denmark will thus be informed of this, so that the Danish ship can withdraw from the carrier group physically and organisationally. And I have no reason to believe that we will not be able to carry out the same action on future deployments of contributions to other naval forces. As far as the protection of the carrier group is concerned, we do not have long-range air defense crews on the frigates yet. It has also been known in the planning of the contribution, and it is important to bear in mind in this context that the defence of the carrier group includes much more than using missiles against threats from the air. The Danish frigate is part of the entire group of ships that will always be around the carrier itself. Here the Danish frigate will monitor an assigned area and share its radar image with the rest of the group. The overall picture of all aircraft carrier ships will be used to identify or address any threats that may come from the air, the surface or below the surface. Here the Danish frigate is well equipped with a variety of weapons systems, including missiles to counter threats from the air. They have a range of 25 km. The Danish frigate thus provides a relevant contribution to the overall defence of the carrier group. Then there is the question of those in need. As a starting point, the defence will always help those in need unless it is evident that other ships will come to their rescue and will be able to move forward more quickly. In this case, the defence in coordination with the relevant local authorities will ensure that the persons in need are taken to a safe place. A mission-specific directive will be drawn up in the same way as in the case of other deployments, and this directive will include, inter alia: be established procedure for the handling of any persons in need, including refugees in need. The relationship between the obligations of ships in relation to those in need is described in the Convention on the Law of the Sea and in the SOLAS Convention. It follows from the Convention on the Law of the Sea that a ship must be rescued if reasonably expected by the master of the ship. This consideration will be based on an assessment of, inter alia: the distance to the person in distress, the speed with which a ship can sail, other ships nearby, etc. The SOLAS Convention states that the rules do not apply to warships, but that they must act in accordance with the rules whenever reasonable and practicable.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214153258	There are brief comments. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214153259	I have two questions for the Minister. One is about the procedure. Would the Minister please explain whether it is not correctly understood that until now it has been the case that if the Danish fleet were to participate in another country's naval force, it was something that had to be approved by the Danish Parliament. As the draft law also says, this is something we have done on previous occasions. And now it becomes the case that it will not be the Folketing in the future, but the jury will have to approve these more training-like activities, that is to say that you are part of them. And I totally understand that these aren't the offensive missions we're talking about. Is it not true that this motion for a resolution, like this one, is being amended? That is one question. The second is whether the Minister will say a little more about what this mission is expected to be about during the period in which we are going to participate. Of course, that's hard to say, but where is it expected that the French carrier group will be about there? What would it typically be for some threats and tasks that you are particularly focused on? I think it would be nice to hear a little more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214153412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214153413	On the first question, it can be said that this is a purely practical measure. We joined an American carrier group last year. The French have shown interest and we need to be able to co-train with other naval forces. We know that there is a desire in the pipeline for us to participate in an English carrier group and for the Americans to return at a later date. And that is why it is a question of us now establishing the framework with this bill and then, in the future, as we know, we will be able to go into the title and explain it. But it is important to make it clear that these are training missions. That is what the rapporteur himself said, and it would be something else if it were sharp action. We would then have to have a motion for a resolution in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214153522	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214153523	Thank you. I just want to ask the Minister for Defence whether he will ensure that the Danish Parliament is informed of the specific agreement on the handling of persons in need, i.e. whether the Danish Parliament will be informed of this before we send the frigate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214153542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214153549	I can promise you that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214153550	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214153552	Thank you. Then I have a further question, and that is about the personnel being sent off. What rules will they be covered by? And quite specifically, will they be regarded as veterans when they return from this task?
ParlaMint-DK_20181214153602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214153602-2	Oh! Actually, I don't have the guts to answer that. There is, of course, the rule that if you enter NATO territory, it is not considered to be a broadcast. But just how it is here, I would like to reply in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214153627	With that, we thank the Secretary of Defense. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181214153644	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 18 December 2018, at 6 pm. 12.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
