ParlaMint-DK_20181004090023	The meeting is open. From a member of the Folketing Holger K. Nielsen, who is on leave, I have received notice that from 7 October 2018 onwards he will be able to rejoin the Parliament. Serdal Benli duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment and Food (Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen): Bill no. L 52 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Marine Environment). Bill No. L 53 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the keeping of animals. Bill No. L 54 (Proposal for a law repealing a number of laws in the fields of the Ministry of the Environment and Food and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs). Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill No. L 55 (Proposal for a law amending the law amending the law on foreigners and the law on foreigners. Minister for Public Innovation (Sophie Løh): Bill no. L 56 (Proposal for a Law on the Social Investment Fund). Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill No. L 57 (Proposal for a Law on a National Science Centre), Bill No. L 58 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Municipal International Primary Schools. Bill No. L 59 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Primary School. Bill No. L 60 (Proposal for a law amending the law on primary education, the law on institutions for general upper secondary education and general adult education, etc., the law on institutions for vocational education and training and various other laws. Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 61 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Health, the Law on Medicinal Products, the Law on Pharmacy and the Law on Medical Devices). Bill No. L 62 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Experimental Scheme of Medical Cannabis and the Law on Drugs). Bill No. L 63 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Authorisation of Health Careers and on Healthcare, Pharmacy Act, Health Act and various other laws. Bill No. L 64 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health. Bill No. L 65 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on medicinal products and the Law prohibiting the sale of tobacco and alcohol to persons under the age of 18. Bill No. L 66 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Financing of Regions. Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-6 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right of treatment in the treatment of insomnia in children with adhd). Kim Christiansen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 7 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on driving licences for large mopeds for 16-year-olds). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 8 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a maximum single provision of youth housing in a municipality and the possibility of a single provision across municipalities). Peter Skaarup (DF), Pernille Skipper (EL), Christina Egelund (LA), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF) and Anders Johansson (KF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 9 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of the minimum age of 18 years for the genital mutilation of healthy children (citizens' motion)) and motion for a resolution No. B 10 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on automatic organ donation from the age of 18 (Citizen proposal)). Jakob Sølvhøj (EL) and Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) etc.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 11 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on giving parents decision-making powers to postpone a child's school start). Rosa Lund (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 12 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a new definition of rape in the penal code based on consent). Stine Brix (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 13 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of user charges for residence in municipal emergency places rather than hospitals). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 14 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of Masjid Al-Faruq Mosque on Nørrebro). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181004090245	Mette Abildgaard (KF) has applied for leave from 8 October 2018, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4, while Carl Holst (V) and Leif Mikkelsen (LA) have applied for leave from 25 October 2018, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a). If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004090332	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the 3rd deputy for the Conservative People's Party in Nordsjællands Storkreds, Erik Lund, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 8 October 2018 on the occasion of Mette Abildgaard's leave. It should be noted that the first and second alternates have indicated that they do not wish to take up such leave. I have also received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Left in the South Jutland Storkreds, Hans Christian Thoning, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 25 October 2018 on the occasion of Carl Holst's leave. Finally, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Liberal Alliance in the Western Jyllands Storkreds, Lene Foged, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 25 October 2018 on the occasion of Leif Mikkelsen's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004090440	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 116 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 116 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004090514	The opening debate today will be interpreted in sign language so that the deaf can follow the debate. But otherwise it is my impression that the speaker system works better than it has done so far. The sign language interpretation can be found directly on the Danish Parliament's website, www.ft.dk and subsequently on demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004090539	The debate is open, and this is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004090609	Time is a weird size. I am, for example. I am sure that the Prime Minister will think that I am speaking for an incredibly long time, even though it is actually only for 10 minutes. I feel the other way round that this parliamentary term has felt like an eternity. This is how we perceive time so differently. Today I would like to talk about the time we lack in our health care. After all, our health care is both the story of a fantastic development and, at the same time, the story that we lack time for care, security and closeness, because our nurses and our health professionals are too busy. The other day, I was on the phone with Gudrun. She was in her summer and now hold fast 100 years. When she was 100 years old, she had three wishes for her birthday: one day with her great-grandchildren, triplets, a vacation with her son and a trip to the cottage. She had all three wishes fulfilled: time with those she cares about. Recently Gudrun fell and hit his arm. For the first time in her long life, she became dependent on the help of the rest of us. She needed help to get out of bed in the morning. She wakes up early, always doing her job. It was 7: 00 a.m., 8: 00 a.m., 9: 00 a.m., 9: 45 a.m., and the home helper finally arrived. There's no time. It hurts, tells a nurse when patients notice: You always say you're coming in 2 minutes, but you never come back. There's no time. And here I'm not thinking about what you can do if you work 12 minutes longer. I'm talking about time for caring, and care cannot be made more effective; better management, yes, and changes, of course, but you can't tell a woman who's born that she has to give birth 2%. faster or you can, but it'll probably be the last thing you're gonna do. That is why we are proposing today specifically that we hire 1,000 more nurses, so that there is time for the woman who has just given birth to make breast-feeding work, and that they can land in being a mother and a father; so that there is time for the many elderly patients who may be insecure and uncertain about what they are facing when both old age and illness are joining; so that there is time for that arm around the shoulder, no economists can make up and put on a formula, but as we all know, what matters when life spans. In social democracy we are preoccupied with quality and time. The Prime Minister is preoccupied with numbers. And it sounds great when the Prime Minister says that since 2001 an extra doctor and nurse have been employed every day except on Sundays. To quote the father of a few members of parliament, Uffe Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen was probably the one who made a very pertinent point, namely that statistics are a bit like a bikini; it shows a lot, but hides the most important thing. For over the last three years, there have been fewer nurses in the country's hospitals. There are, so to speak, zero extra nurses employed. On the other hand, one has been fired every Sunday except in school holidays. And if the government continues after the elections, it will continue to develop, and then there will be 1,000 fewer nurses in the Danish hospitals. For even though the Liberal Alliance is no longer shouting loudly about how terrible the public sector is and how terrible our welfare society is, this government is pursuing a policy that makes welfare worse. You know a pattern. When the Prime Minister claims that 75 billion has been invested. kr. In the welfare, it covers the fact that when the Prime Minister takes credit for emergency helicopters, it turns out that they were introduced by the Thorning Government and by the Danish People's Party, and before we reach the election campaign, the Prime Minister has probably claimed that it was Anker Jørgensen who wrote from social state to minimal state, or that it was Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, and not the Prime Minister himself, who was responsible for overpayment of the private hospitals. Why isn't the PM standing by his own merits? There is the municipal reform; the best centralisation of Denmark since the absolute monarchy. I'm thinking, is the Prime Minister now working on a new desk project? Do we really need to centralise even more? Take North Jutland as an example. Today, the elected representatives from Aalborg, Hadsund, Brønderslev and Skagen decide the local health issues in North Jutland. Should it now be left to an official in the Ministry of Health in Copenhagen or to an office in Aarhus? In many places the nearest hospital has been extended. The fact that today we can get the best and most specialised treatment for serious illness is good, but proximity is also important, and in our view Denmark has been centralised far too much. There are fewer police stations, fewer hospitals, fewer educational institutions. And there was not a word from the Prime Minister on Tuesday about the need to create development throughout Denmark. We think this is untenable. That is why the message of social democracy today is very simple: it is time to put welfare first. Because things are going well in Denmark, and the fact that things are going well, we need to use wisely, in a way that benefits all of us, and in a way that makes Denmark stronger, not only next year, but also in 5-10 years. We live in the time of greed. We want a society based on mutual trust, trust that everyone will contribute, including the banks, and that is why we must make the right choices. We will abolish the government's annual savings on education. I think it is unreasonable that the government should with one hand cut down on young people's vocational training and thus prevent future craftsmen from becoming as skilled as they can be, in order to open up with the other hand to competing workers from third countries. This is not about whether highly specialised workers should be able to come to Denmark. Of course, they should, and they can do so today, but when companies are asking for more employees, why not invest in all those who in our own society are outside the labour market, the almost 50,000 young people who are not doing any training at all? It is a remarkable relaxation of the immigration policy that the government is proposing here. On the other hand, I would like to welcome the government's proposal on electric cars. It was also about time 3 years of agricultural package, attempts to cancel wind turbines and saving energy research. But let's move on. Denmark must be fossil-free by 2045. We believe that agriculture should make a real contribution to climate change. We have proposed higher taxes on plastic so that we can get rid of some of the plastic contamination. We'd like more untouched woods. In other words, Denmark must be a green power. Then we will create a school that is as good for those boys who have difficulty sitting still as it is for other children, and we politicians do not have to legislate on everything. If a child needs another year in kindergarten, let parents and educators make that decision. Man before the system. I would like to give more rights to the children at risk. The most important political issue, the most important thing to fight for, is our children. That's why I'm saying I want to be the prime minister of the children. As a politician, as a Social Democrat, I want to insist on one thing before another: that we create a society in which all children have as good and as safe a childhood as they deserve, so that they can realise their own dreams, including those living on the shadow side. Because, as Kim Larsen said, I cannot understand what a government should be good for if it is not to support the weak, because the strong will succeed. Then I would like to read out a proposal for adoption from the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government will reduce welfare by not covering the increased costs of the increasing number of children and the elderly in the coming years. The Folketing recommends a new policy which, firstly, ensures core welfare throughout the country, gives all children a good start and reduces inequality. Secondly, across all sectors, including transport, agriculture and buildings, Denmark must undertake a rapid and timely green transition in line with scientific recommendations that ensure that Denmark in the EU and globally is a pioneer country for inspiration to the world. Thirdly, integration really promises so that more new Danes enter the labour market, including maintaining the IGU scheme. The number of refugees is important for integration. Cash benefits for the waiver of family reunification rights do not benefit integration and should therefore not be introduced. Fourthly, an ambitious education policy, including the removal of re-prioritised contributions, and the possibility of continuing training without a ceiling, are reintroducing. V1).
ParlaMint-DK_20181004091656	Thank you. This proposal is part of the further negotiations. Then we start with questions and comments. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004091705	Thank you, and thank you both for the story about Gudrun and for the story about the bikini, which I think was an easier rewrite of that story with that if you make a speech, remember that it has to be so long that it covers most but so short that it maintains interest. We can then assess whether a ten-minute speech in this Parliament is doing so, but let it be, that is what others have to assess. My question is, of course, directed to foreign policy and to what we have called a paradigm shift. You can call it common sense, etc., the Prime Minister mentioned it on Tuesday, so that when you come to Denmark and get help, you have to be here temporarily, and when the opportunity to return is there, you also have to return to your country and help rebuild it. I think that there have been a little different reports from the Social Democrats in relation to this so-called paradigm shift and this change of course, and therefore I am interested to know from Mrs Mette Frederiksen whether one agrees with the Danish People's Party that a temporary stay in Denmark should really be temporary and that one has a duty to return when the possibility is there, and whether the Social Democrats can propose initiatives that can really ensure that we also get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004091811	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004091812	The short answer is yes, and I would very much like to link the concept of common sense to the idea that, if you are a refugee and come to Denmark, you enjoy our protection, and there will again be peace in your home country, so of course you will return and do what you can to help restore your original homeland. I think that is common sense and, moreover, it will also give us the opportunity to help other people who then have a need for protection at a later stage. So the short answer is yes. How do we do this in practice? Because I would very much like to discuss how, during the period in which refugees are here, we are really concentrating our efforts on those people so that they can actually return, while at the same time ensuring that they also contribute while they are here. I think that one of the main problems with today's failed integration is that we have not made enough demands. When people are in Denmark, they must work and they must contribute and they must support themselves. But the short answer is: yes, it is common sense and we should have done it a long time ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004091923	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004091924	Thank you. Now I understand from the proposal for adoption put forward in the debate for the time being that you do not want to touch the igu, for example, so you still want me to assume that refugees who are here on temporary residence will be entitled to the benefit system. This can be said to be a bit of a contradiction when at the same time it is said that people should only be here temporarily. Then why do you have to get them into our benefit system? But when the Social Democratic Party does not want to touch something like that, can Mrs Mette Frederiksen tell us something about what can be done in practice to ensure that a temporary stay is actually also temporary? What can the Social Democrats propose of initiatives that actually make us reach where we agree that we are going?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092001	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092002	There are two things for it. Firstly, with regard to the Igu, a tripartite agreement has been drawn up in this area, and I think it is positive. I'm not the one behind the tripartite agreement. It's the Prime Minister. I also understand that the government wants to maintain the Igu, so there is a little disagreement here that crosses and crosses the Parliamentary Chamber. I think it is positive that the social partners have given a commitment to fulfil that task and ensure that more refugees enter the labour market. With regard to the specific question of what we can do, this is really a more fundamental and fundamental change in our refugee policy. For, in fact, refugees in Denmark have become immigrants over time, and that is why I believe that the most crucial thing in reality is to turn our entire immigration policy around, so that it will be based on temporary nature when it comes to refugees. That would make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092050	Mrs. Britt Bager, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092052	Thank you very much. Thanks for one in many ways fine speech. I'll follow up on that, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl asked about this, because I do not really think that Mrs Mette Frederiksen answered it quite clearly. If the Social Democratic Party should come to power, will you abolish the Igu "yes" or "no"?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092111	I actually thought it was fairly clear, with all due respect, but it may be that the question has been written before. Because in this case, we have actually chosen to back the government. The government has made an agreement with the social partners on special training for refugees. We think this is a positive step, and we support it, and we will do so after a choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092130	Mrs. Britt Bager.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092132	That was a clear answer. You will preserve the Igu by choice. It was nice to hear you guys back up on it. After all, Mrs Mette Frederiksen criticized the Prime Minister not to mention Denmark in better balance in her speech. That is why I am surprised that it has not been mentioned in your adoption text at all. Why is it that Denmark in a better balance, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen seems to be so concerned about, does not appear in the adoption text of the opposition parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092158	You have to remember to speak in the third person. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092200	I promise you it will. First of all, I apologize to the President of the Danish Parliament. Even after almost 20 years in the house, you can make mistakes when it comes to indictment. I would like to say to Mrs Britt Bager that it pervades the whole text of the adoption that we must have a Denmark in balance. For some of the things that I can feel seriously challenge, among other things. Our rural areas • seriously challenge rural areas • are the savings on education. It is so heavy in those areas where young people have to travel longer after education than they do in large cities that we have a government that cuts down on high schools that cuts down on vocational training, which cuts down on our welfare education. So it pervades the text of the adoption that we must have a Denmark in balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092252	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092255	Mrs Mette Frederiksen spoke about how time can seem infinitely long, for example. in a Socialist rapporteur's speech. I do not think that was the case, so thank you for your speech. On the other hand, what can seem infinitely long is if you have been 40 years on the labour market and feel well worn and tired and have no chance of retirement. Last year, we were able to join together in welcoming the fact that the government's attempts to increase the retirement age were successfully halted. Now the debate has risen again over the summer, because from next year the retirement age will increase quite specifically. That is why I would like to know whether it is not the case that the new criticism has impressed Mrs Mette Frederiksen, so that it can be promised that the Social Democratic Party will work to ensure that the retirement age will not increase further.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092351	First, like the questioner, I should like to welcome the fact that we jointly prevented the government from reducing the retirement age. The good question to ask today is, does the government still have that plan lying in a desk drawer? We can return to that. The welfare agreement that was made back in 2006 seemed to us to be a good agreement in many ways, but it was based on a certain premise, namely that there was still a pre-retirement wage. Then there will be five years, and then a majority in the Danish Parliament, which neither Enhedslisten nor Social Democrat was included in, of course, de facto abolishing the post-retirement pay. That is why I would like to say today that there are employees who are in a mess and who are in a mess. And I don't believe that I'd like to say that everyone can work until they're in the late '60s and in a few years' time in the early '70s. There is so much difference between how hard our working life is and wear and tear is so unevenly distributed. So in other words, we have a task ahead of us, we have to figure out how to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092449	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092451	Well, I'm glad to hear it. What is, after all, the great challenge is that there is exactly an agreement, and the criticism that is being voiced is perhaps primarily a criticism of the government, but also a criticism of the parties to the agreement, and a desire that it be possible to negotiate freely after elections. If this agreement is allowed to pass over elections, then the Social Democrats will be bound by the ordinary rules of conciliation and thus not be able to negotiate freely with Enhedslisten and other parties to amend the agreement. I would therefore like to hear: is it not the case that the Social Democrats want to free themselves so that they can actually negotiate with the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Alternative to jointly create a new agreement? Is it the case that the Social Democrats are prepared to terminate the agreement before we go to elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092546	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092548	In other words, we have no tradition in the Social Democratic Party of terminating the large, broad political settlements on which important parts of Danish society are based. This applies in the field of defence, and it also applies to the Danish economy. And the welfare agreement back in 2006 is, of course, an essential explanation for the fact that there is any economic room for manoeuvre we can discuss in the Parliamentary Chamber today. So we are not going to terminate that conciliation, but that should not prevent us from recognising that we have a challenge that is not being solved. I meet many employees, particularly at the end of the 1950s, who at that time in their lives have been on the labour market for, let us say, 40 years, and who every day can feel that now the body can no longer. Then there are some who say that they can get a job at Silvan and do something else, but that doesn't hold out, because it must also be possible, when you have delivered the effort in this society, you have to, to withdraw in a proper way. So there is a 'yes' to solving the specific challenges that exist. I do not pretend that I have answered; I hope we can find them together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092653	Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092655	Thank you. I would also like to sign the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur says in his speech that the most important thing is the children, and that it is important that as a child you can make your own dreams happen. It is difficult to disagree with that, but frankly, I think it sounds rather hollow when you hold it against the policy of the Social Democratic Party when it comes to school. For the truth about children who are allowed to realize their own dreams is that today there are 121,000 schoolchildren who choose something other than primary school and who choose the free schools. That is what they do when they realize their own dreams and have the free choice. Social democracy then says that we want to impose a ceiling on that. That is only 10%, and that is to say, about half of those who today choose the free school, which, if the Social Democrats are allowed to decide, must in future be allowed to choose the free school. That is why my question is: who is it of the half of the 121 000 school pupils who have today chosen the free school, which must be forced out of the school in which they want to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092758	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092800	We do not have a ceiling on how many people have to choose one type of school or another. On the other hand, we have two other proposals. The first is that free and private schools must also start to assume greater responsibility for the entire group of children in Denmark. If we are now completely honest with each other, we must say that not least the integration task today is certainly not reserved for all schools. Let me put it this way and, above all, there are some primary schools that are allowed to carry out a very large task. We want all schools to lift this in the future, including free and private schools, and we are willing to make legal demands for this. The second thing we want is to stop the overpayment by this government to private schools. Because I have basic confidence that parents make the right choice on behalf of their children, but I think it is fundamentally wrong at a time when many primary schools have to save and when it is difficult to make the economy coherent, that one can then see that private schools have increased their subsidies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092857	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092859	But today we are financing 76 per cent. of the cost of free and private schools, the rest pay the parents themselves. There's a self-payment, and this government has lowered several times, so that free school is available to more people. Compared to that with the 10%.: It is therefore the chairman of the Social Democratic Party's own teaching rapporteur who says that there must be a ceiling of 10%. of Danish school-seeking students who are allowed to choose a free school or private school, which is why half of those who have today opted for an alternative to primary school have to be forced out of free and private schools in some way. And you might think so, but you also owe it to you to give answers to how you intend to throw about 60,000 students out of free and private schools. Because that is the consequence of agreeing to that ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092947	But we are not in favour of that ceiling, so we can clarify that quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092950	Thank you. Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004092955	First of all, of course, thank you for your speech. And I would also like to thank my colleagues in the opposition parties for having been able to agree on a text for adoption. That's really, really nice, because it means a paradigm shift in the climate area. I think this is the first time we have formulated climate policy in relation to what science recommends. So thank you for that. When I sit and listen to such a speech here, I also listen to what is not being said. And something which was not mentioned at all and which I am therefore curious about is the whole of international cooperation and European policy. Can the rapporteur say anything about whether social democracy also sees Denmark as a strong Denmark only if we have strong European cooperation? I am very curious to hear where social democracy is in European politics right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093050	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093052	The short answer is yes. Of course, Denmark is only a strong nation if there is a strong Europe, because we are part of Europe, and at a time when we are seeing an aggressive President in the East, when we are seeing a Middle East still on fire, and when we are seeing an American President, who unfortunately pulls the United States further away from the international world community, the need only increases for stronger European cooperation. I think that the European Union is a success story beyond all borders. These are the only decades in which Europeans have been able to live in peaceful coexistence, because we have worked together and committed ourselves to each other. But it is also cooperation that squeaks because many people in our people think that the proportions and some of the decisions are wrong. And that is why, of course, it is important to reform European cooperation so that we get closer to the individual Member States again and thus to the respective peoples.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093154	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093156	Well, it is nice to hear the Social Democrats talk very strongly about European policy, because when I have been following the European debate this way over the last few years, I think that there has been a long way to go in the direction of withdrawing from such a more national policy approach to border barriers; there will be no talk of quota arrangements in relation to refugees, etc. etc. And what I would like to ask the Social Democrats is, of course, how we can get the debate on Europe much higher on the agenda together, of course, also in relation to a perspective which is about the elections we are facing next year, when we must have elected some good people into the European Parliament. So how will social democracy help to ensure that the level of ambition is raised when we talk about European policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093245	But European policy is a lot of things. I myself am in favour of border controls, and I think it is quite natural that in a country you know who comes into your country, of course. Well, there is also passport control at Kastrup Airport when you come from non-Schengen countries. So for me, border controls are quite natural. For me, it is also natural for us to have a much stronger focus in Europe on employees' rights, because I think we have to recognise that the free movement of workers and the internal market have meant that many ordinary workers have experienced that their working environment, their wages and their general conditions have been put under pressure. There I think the market has been allowed to decide too much; there I would like to have employees' rights higher up on the agenda. When we talk about climate, the answer is clear: we need more Europe, and so do we when it comes, for example. is about the fight against tax fraud and speculation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093335	Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093339	I'm sitting here smiling a little bit for myself at the confusion over at mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mrs Britt Bager, on the text adopted by the opposition. I think the confusion arises because Mrs Mette Frederiksen and the Social Democratic Party here clearly reject a number of the proposals from the Danish People's Party in the field of foreigners. And I think that's good. I am pleased that we agree that it is unworthy of giving people money to leave their families in conflict zones as part of the debate on a paradigm shift between the government and the Danish People's Party. Then I agree with the Prime Minister that we need more foreign labour as a second part of foreign policy. And then we all agree together that it is good to integrate refugees into the labour market and to retain basic integration training. And that's why this is really just an example of the fact that immigration policy is not a fixed whole, where some people agree on everything. That is why my question is: why is it that we should cheat ourselves for welfare, for the possibility of making the intentions of more nurses or educators a reality that lies in giving companies the opportunity to get more labour where they might find it? If the Socialists think it is okay to pick up foreign labour in Europe on one side of the border, I do not understand why it should not then be picked up in Ukraine or on the other side of the EU's border. It will, of course, contribute to our welfare; it will make it possible to make some of the good thoughts a reality. But we cheat ourselves when we prevent companies from getting the manpower they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093519	I did not hear any uncertainty or doubt from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and that is because the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party are very much in agreement on the vast majority of foreign policy. Because we need to know how many people are coming to Denmark. Then there's a disagreement about the Igu. Well, I guess we can handle that. The question of foreign labour is, after all, much more serious than the Igu. After all, this is a relatively small agreement for a limited number of people. What the government is proposing as far as foreign labour is concerned will, of course, open up massively to external labour imports. And what I basically do not understand is that, for three years, you say to the young people who fortunately choose to take a vocational training and become craftsmen: we cut off your education; we make your chances of becoming more skilled; and then we take in equal labour not the highly specialized, not the academic labour market, but skilled labour. That is our appeal. When things go well, it's about making good times better for everyone in this society. So let us use the boom to bring them into the labour market, which is now outside, but not through foreign policy. I am fundamentally opposed to being able to import labour from a great many third countries for wages that are lower than many Danish craftsmen go to. Basically, I really disagree and I do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093639	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093641	I actually knew that in advance. But it was actually more a question of recognizing that it would be difficult to deliver 1,000 extra nurses. Because already today there are places in the public sector where it is difficult to recruit. It will be difficult to afford the things we would like if companies do not have the opportunity to get the labour they need. And that's what somewhere, I think, makes it incoherent. They say: 'Well, you can recruit in the EU without a limit, but you can't recruit right there, on the other side of the EU's border, even if that's where the labour force exists. But it doesn't cost anyone anything. Mrs Mette Frederiksen and the Social Democrats have been involved in spending money from education savings themselves, for example. On a police settlement. Instead of inviting foreign workers, it would have been possible to avoid the savings in training which we are now jointly expressing our scepticism about today. And that is why it is a question of choosing between either a foreign colleague more at work or savings on your children's education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093745	We must insist that companies that need highly specialised labour should be able to get it to Denmark. We want to play our part in holding on to this. Nowadays, the limit on the amount of this is well over $400,000, and I really feel pretty sure that if a company really wants to pick up an employee from the other side of the globe, then it must also be possible to pay a proper salary. Then there's another element in this, and that's that we have to make the country stick together, too. And that is why we in the Social Democratic Party say that there is a limit to how many foreigners can come to Denmark because we need to be able to keep up as a society. Perhaps this really reveals more than you can see, because perhaps this reveals a new dividing line in Danish politics, where the government is now clearly on the side that one is more concerned with the immediate needs of business than one is with the cohesion force in Denmark. And it's a good thing it comes out now before an election, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093843	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093846	Thank you. I'd like to ask about the time of educators. Now Mrs Mette Frederiksen talked a lot about nurses' time, what is really important, and about the time in our society where things are urgent. I have asked about this before, but I have found out that if you ask Mrs Mette Frederiksen enough times about the same thing, then Social Democracy suddenly changes its mind. That was the case, for example. with the training ceiling. So now I'm also trying to set minimum standards that I've asked about before. About a week ago there was a teacher who shared a sign on his Facebook, which said: kl. I'm 14.00, and right now I'm alone with 25 kids. It became such a campaign. It was divided thousands of times and liked 8,000 times, and many other educators did the same. The next day, I think it was, there was such a statement of standards which showed that there is a mile difference between living in the municipality of Vesthimmerland, which has the worst standards, or living in another municipality that has better standards. I think it is absolutely crucial that our children have time with competent adults. So can the Social Democrats imagine that, after an election, a minimum standard is introduced to ensure that there are enough adults for our children both in nurseries and in kindergarten, so there is time for the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093957	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004093958	I am still unsure whether making minimum standards is the right way to do this, because at the same time we in the Social Democratic Party are concerned with actually having more confidence that the right management decisions can be made in the institutions. I have to say that the needs of our children for good adults are also dependent on what kind of life they are in themselves. So, of course, all children need proper adult contact, which is why we need to lift our welfare society into the future. We have the opportunity to do this together because, unlike the government, we do not spend all the money on tax cuts and do not keep trying to find money for tax cuts. If you do not, you can afford to hire more nurses, and then we will also be able to afford to ensure a welfare economy that can keep up with demographic developments. But I also think it is important in the discussion about the educators to say that we have some children, not least the most vulnerable, those with the most difficult upbringing conditions, where we need some extra time. And then there are some children who are so well off that we may be able to cope with a more general standarding. So I think we should also have a quality discussion into it and an exposed child element into that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094112	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094113	The only problem is that general and general standards are poor, so that it is all children who experience that there is not enough time for them. I'm gonna want to compare it to primary school. In primary school you have a class ceiling where you say max. Twenty-eight students in the class, and that's for all children. And then it's not so bureaucratic that you can't out there decide how to organize teaching and whether you can do team sharing. Why is it so different from a day care center and a day care center? Why is it that you cannot also say, as in primary school, that the future red-green block will ensure that there is no educator who has to stand alone with 24 children or 25 children at 10 a.m. 14. That is simply not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094153	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094155	I believe that what we need to do first is to reverse the political and economic priorities so that we can create a space for us to invest in the welfare society again. My guess is that there must be some of the country's educators and that there must be some of the country's nurses and some of the country's schoolteachers who, when they have seen the announcements with the Prime Minister of all the billions for welfare, think: I wonder where all the money has gone, because what we are feeling is that, Mr. Jacob Mark describes today that there are educators who experience being alone with too many children. There are night shifts in nursing homes that experience being alone with many citizens. There are nurses who experience running too fast. So I think that what we need to do together is at all start focusing on welfare again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094244	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094247	Thank you for that and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. In fact, I would say that so far this is the best speech of the day. I would like to ask a few questions about the many initiatives currently being put forward by the Social Democratic Party and a little about the financial bill. As far as I have been able to read out, the Social Democratic Party is proposing to follow the demographic trend and it costs 23.5 billion. kr. per year in 2025. You want to remove the ceiling on cash benefits, you want to remove the re-priority contribution, and then there are a large number of other initiatives. Now there is another initiative for 1,000 more nurses. That all sounds very good, but it may also sound a little too good to be true. So my question is actually quite simple: where should the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094334	The fact is that, together with a number of different decisions in which we have agreed with some and disagreed with others, we have created an economic space for the years to come. It is an economic space which, if you give the right priority, can cover the demographic trait, that is, that we will need more welfare money because there will be more older people. On the other hand, it is not a room for manoeuvre that affords tax relief, nor is it a room for manoeuvre that allows you to strike out with both arms and legs and promise a lot. However, if you stick to what we think is the most important thing, namely to strengthen welfare, then economic room for manoeuvre can afford to cover the demographic trait. That is the basis of our 2025 plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094422	Sir. Anders Johansson.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094424	That's interesting. Now the Social Democrats aren't running away with economic plans, but I've been cheating and digging up a bit from home. In fact, I have found the 2025 plan and it is quite true that it shows that there is an economic space of 39.5 billion. kr., but when you ask the Ministry of Finance, there is a room for manoeuvre of 27.5 billion. kr. This means that there is a calculation error of approx. 12 billion kr., so it could be that you had to go home and count again on whether there actually is room for all these promises you're now out to make. In any case, I can call for this, because does Mrs Mette Frederiksen not think that the Danes are actually entitled to have a well-defined and proper economic plan put forward for all the initiatives that are now being taken before the elections and promised to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094503	The remarkable thing in this case is that we presented a 2025 plan years ago. We're still holding on to that. How many plans has the government put forward? How many have it come to be? Is that a two or three? They have then had to be reviewed along the way, because fortunately the majority in the Danish Parliament could not be obtained for example for a later retirement age and for deteriorations of one, then the other and the third. So it can be said that, contrary to the government and the governing parties, we are sticking to the plan we originally put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094531	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094535	We have a good benefit system in Denmark, where as a Dane, as a citizen of this country, you can pay in monthly, and then you can assure yourself against being fired, against unemployment. It's safe. Then it is the case that refugees with the so-called Igu agreement now have an allowance right without paying anything. We in the Danish People's Party think this is unfair, and that is why we have also put on the agenda that we have to discuss this Igu system, where we simply get in front of the Danes who laboriously pay into the benefit system and have been doing so for perhaps many years to insure against unemployment. What I would like to ask Mrs Mette Frederiksen is whether that is fair. Is that something that the Socialists agree with, in other words, that refugees are thus favoured in relation to Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094641	I would not argue that the Igu agreement concluded by the government with the social partners is absolutely perfect. On the other hand, in a situation where it has been very difficult in Denmark to ensure that everyone who comes here also enters the labour market and contributes, we choose to welcome the fact that the social partners have taken the lead and have said that they want to find some other ways. If we are finally to talk about injustice and unemployment benefit, I think that the biggest problem we have in the area of unemployment benefits is that EU citizens' access to unemployment benefits is what it is and that we have a Commission that really wants to reduce the conditions in the area of unemployment benefits even more so that you can take out unemployment benefits longer out of Denmark. But I do not want to say that every corner of the Igu agreement is quite perfect, but we choose to support it because we think it is a positive contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094728	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094729	What we are after in the Danish People's Party I think you can understand that if it is the case that we favour refugees rather than Danes in our system, and now it is the daily allowance, but it could also be housing, and it could also be other circumstances, then we have a problem, both with the Danes' understanding of the refugee policy we are pursuing, but also in relation to the quite fair thing that is in that if you pay into a system, you also expect the neighbour to pay in if they are to benefit from the system. That is why we hope that the Socialists will help to cut that right from the Igu system. That was point 1. Paragraph 2 is that I would like to ask the Socialists what action will be taken to ensure that people who have come to Denmark and have been given shelter also return so that they can help rebuild the countries from which they came, because that is what is so much needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094830	Yes, that is what is needed and, in fact, I think it must be a fundamental, healthy principle that, if you flee a country and enjoy our protection for a period, you also want to go back of your own accord and, of course, make your contribution to rebuilding the country. We have to admit that a historic mistake has been made here, because we can see that refugees who come to Denmark have ended up becoming immigrants and have remained in the country, and it can be said that we must have turned our policy, and in this way it is completely and completely without reservation that we welcome the principle of people returning and helping to rebuild their country of origin. What we can then discuss is how we use the time they are here as best we can, and that is where I think it is important that we are allowed, yes, that there is indeed a requirement that we contribute to Danish society in the meantime.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094920	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004094925	Thank you. First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that the President of the Social Democratic Party is celebrating free school elections today. I guess that wasn't quite the message earlier, but it's always nice when you look at things differently than you did before. Then I think it would be a good idea, just for the sake of history writing, to note that it was while Mr. Bertel Haarder was Minister for Health that the first two medical helicopters came; otherwise Mr. Bertel Haarder probably had a little difficulty flying around in them while he was Minister of Health. Well, my question concerns the fact that the Social Democrats usually say that the whole room for manoeuvre must be used for welfare and that, at the same time, the Social Democrats say that more money will be spent on the green transition than the government wants. Now I have tried to look at that 2025 plan, which the Social Democratic Party has put forward, it has a few years on the back and has not been updated either, as the Conservative rapporteur has just stressed, and from that plan there is nothing to show about the green transition, so I would just like to know whether Mrs Mette Frederiksen will today give the Danish Parliament an answer as to how much the Social Democratic Party will use of the room there is for manoeuvre on the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095031	There were several things in this. First of all, about the free choice of schools, I would like to say that we have free choice of schools in Denmark and that I am confident that parents make the choice that is best for their children, but at the same time I think that we have an obligation as politicians to ensure that we have a primary school that is as good as possible. And that is what I challenge in government policy: that at a time when many municipal public schools are experiencing economic narrowness, one has a government that chooses to set up the subsidy for private schools. I think we should try to find out what kind of a medical helicopter is in that picture, because, in all due respect to Mr. Simpson... Bertel Haarder and age, that medical helicopter looks new. But we need to find out exactly when it's dated from. The green transition costs resources, of course, it does, and that is why it is good that we have together created a green space for some of the agreements we have entered into. This is the case at the latest with the energy conciliation, where I can well say that we were a number of parties who insisted that funds were set aside, which we can translate now, for example, when we are going to reorganise the transport sector, it is absolutely crucial to have it reorganised.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095143	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095144	Well, thank you. I interpret this as a very clear answer to the fact that of the economic scope there is, the Social Democrats will not use more than what we have agreed together. It's okay, then I got so much smarter. I should also like to understand why, as I have said, the figures in the Social Democrats' proposal for a savings of DR agreed with the media settlement, which the Social Democratic media rapporteur will roll back, i.e. 800 million. kr., should also go away from the room for manoeuvre which the Social Democratic Party would otherwise say one would use for welfare. Because it's just a little hard to spend the same money twice. I know that this is an exercise that the Social Democrat Party is very good at when you are in opposition, but it is a bit tricky when you sit at the top of the table. So it would just be nice to have an answer today about the 800 million. kr. to DR must go from the room you would otherwise use for welfare, or whether they should come from somewhere else, because you cannot spend the money twice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095242	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095243	But it is also important to say that a 2025 plan is not an exhaustive list, an exhaustive catalogue of everything you intend to do until 2025. In other words, when we are going to negotiate climate with the government this autumn, I assume that both the government, we and the other parties in the Folketing will jointly find the resources needed to restructure, for example, the car park. Because I have to say that when the Prime Minister stood up on Tuesday and said that the government wants a ban on petrol cars by 2030, the goal does not do so alone; then it requires political decisions as early as this autumn. And that is where we will have to find together the resources needed to achieve this goal. As far as the DR is concerned, we have opposed the media settlement that the government has made, but I cannot promise that we can bring back all that money. That will be a concrete political priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095343	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095346	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur has recently said that she is genuinely sorry about her reform of early retirement. A number of people who should have an early retirement don't get it. Too many end up in grueling and hopeless work tests. Mrs Mette Frederiksen said that was not the intention, and I am very pleased about that. Something similar has been said for a long time now by the Social Democrats' employment rapporteur. So far, however, we have not heard any concrete proposals from the Social Democratic Party on how to correct it. So my question is: what changes will the Social Democratic Party propose in the legislation to ensure that municipalities cannot treat seriously ill citizens in the reprehensible manner described by the rapporteur himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095439	I am sincerely sorry to say that I am truly sorry, because the intention, what we wanted with that reform, I think was the right one. And I still think that's the right thing to do. We could see that there was a large increase in the number of very young women already in the early 20s who, due to a mental vulnerability, were granted an early retirement pension. I think it is wrong as a society to say to young people at the beginning of life that we will never be able to use you in the community that the labour market is also. Therefore, we would like to see whether, with rehabilitating and holistic efforts, we could not help more, both of our somatically ill, but also of our mentally vulnerable, to get around their challenges and sufferings, their illness, in a way that they could maintain or gain a link with the labour market. And I still think that's the right thing to do. When I hear examples of people waiting month after month for clarification as to whether they should be in resource sequences, and the resource sequence is dragging out, and about bedridden work tests, that was not what was meant to be, and we need to change that. I do not have a complete recipe for how we are actually to do this in terms of legislation, but I believe that time here, as in other respects, has a role to play. We must not delay the proceedings as long as we see, at least in some places in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095558	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095601	I cannot understand why no concrete answers can be given to this question. The criticism of that reform is certainly not new, and it has not only come from the Enhedslisten, it has come from a wide range of organisations from society. Two years ago, the rapporteur himself said that bed practice must be ended, so now I have to ask: do we have any answers to this before the parliamentary elections, or is the silence due to the fact that it is well known that the Left and the Liberal Alliance, which are conciliation partners here, can veto fundamental improvements and that it may not be necessary to shed light on this before the parliamentary elections, because then it will reinforce the call for this conciliation to be terminated? I have a suggestion. I propose that the Social Democratic Party immediately initiate negotiations with the Enhedslisten, with the Danish People's Party and with the Alternative. I am sure that we can reach a good agreement before the elections, which really helps the seriously ill and disabled people affected by this reform. Once we have made that agreement, the Social Democracy can terminate the settlement, and then the changes can enter into force immediately after the parliamentary elections. What does Mrs Mette Frederiksen think of that plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095711	I have not myself attended the meetings of the Ministry of Employment and Employment. I am now looking right over at the Minister, but I have to say that it is actually my experience that the Minister has also been sensitive in this area, that there are some obvious challenges that I actually find that the conciliation circle has sat around a table and has started to deal with. An agreement was made, I think, just before the summer recess with some changes, and we have then pointed out that more may be needed. But I do not actually see that the government in this area is argument-resistant or how to put it, but that there is a need for some change. Even if we can get far enough, I dare not say in advance, but from the point of view of the Social Democrats it is not everywhere that early retirement reform acts as we would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095806	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095811	Thank you so much. The number matters, Mrs Mette Frederiksen said, when it comes to how many refugees we can accept, and we fully agree with that. The government announced a few minutes ago that neither will we receive quota refugees for 2018. I would just like to ask whether this is a resolution supported by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095837	We do. And we do, because we can see if we look at developments since 2015 and forward to now that we have received approx. Fifty thousand refugees and families joined together, and the challenge of integration is still great. So, despite a fall in the number of asylum seekers, despite the fact that there are no refugees currently on Europe's motorways, the challenge of integration is still so violent in my view that we maintain the position we have on quota refugees. What we can then discuss is whether we can take some of those who are most vulnerable in the quota refugee system and help them, also at the moment. But, yes, we continue to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095920	Here you go, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095922	I think that is, of course, very welcome. I was just under the impression that a compromise had been reached in the Socialist Group, where for 2018 some refugees had to be received. However, these are perhaps the refugees that Mrs Mette Frederiksen is talking about now and which Mrs Mette Frederiksen would like Denmark to receive in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004095948	Yeah, I think we have room for that. When we conduct the tight immigration policy we are doing today in Denmark and it is good that we are doing it across the political centre then at the same time we have little elbow space to help some of the most vulnerable. We have said this all the way through, and it will also apply to 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100010	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100013	Thank you. One of the things that annoys me a little about the Social Democratic announcements recently is the ambiguity about what you really want in relation to the ceiling on cash aid, the integration benefit and the 225-hour rule. But to go for something a little more concrete: now we just have the country, what I think is a really, really fine media agreement, and that is where I can understand it. Mogens Jensen, that if the Social Democracy comes to power, you will reverse all the media reconciliation, including the savings that we have on Denmark's Radio. Can Mrs Mette Frederiksen confirm that we would rather spend up to 1 billion? kr. more on journalists than on welfare in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100056	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100057	I have to say that the timing of the media conciliation that has been concluded is remarkable. I believe that we are at a time when we need to strengthen public service, not to weaken it. After all, I am the parent of children and can see that many parts of child and youth life today live on platforms that are not Danish, with enormous external impressions, which are not subject to the considerations that would normally be made on an editorial board, for example. Fake news is here. At such a time, I really think it is obvious to see if we can strengthen what we still share in Denmark, for example our public service media, which the Danes are also happy about. But it is clear that our main priority after the next elections is welfare. That is why, of course, we do not promise that the savings for Denmark's Radio can be reversed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100158	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100159	If I may try to look forward: we are now going into some film negotiations, and I understand from the Social Democratic Party that you will start to brand tax the Danish cinemas. This is true in relation to Danish films such as "Klovn" - "The Movie," "Whitestone Group" - "A royal affair" - "If you look backwards." Why is it that you want to brand tax Danish cinemas and thus risk denouncing what I see as a crucial part of Danish culture?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100226-2	What is important is to ensure that there is a production of Danish media, and that is whether it is television or film, and that is why we must constantly seek to provide resources for more production. Personally, I think that the most important thing in this respect is to have some of the foreign streaming services assigned to them, that they should contribute more to production in Denmark. We have also tried to get the government to do so without success, unfortunately. I think it is important that they begin to contribute more to the production of Danish television and films, and I also think it is important that they start to pay the tax they have to pay, as do all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100309	Then it's mr. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100316	Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen for her fine speech. I was particularly fond of bikinianalogy, which I will take with me. I have a rather simple question: if Mrs Mette Frederiksen were to be the lucky winner of the opposition's many prime minister candidates, will she guarantee that a refugee camp will be set up in Africa during the first parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100342	This is a strange question, because the questioner knows very well that today there is a broad recognition in the Folketing that the current asylum system is unsustainable, that we should set up reception centres, that we should move asylum treatment, as we have proposed, to the neighbourhood instead of Denmark. But to stand on this platform today and promise exactly what date that construction can be set up would be simply irresponsible. But what we can do together is to set out to get it done. Because if the government and I are quite sure that the Danish People's Party is also a supporter and we and perhaps others say that we will go from an unsustainable refugee system, where people risk their lives, and come to Denmark and seek spontaneous asylum, and replace it with an asylum system where we provide protection, but do so in the vicinity, then I think we have the opportunity to establish it at some point. But that will require political cooperation, and it will require diplomacy of a high nature and a great deal of foreign policy action. And of course I can't put on a date.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100453	Sir. Mads Birded, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100454	I sense that, in relation to such realism in having a refugee camp in Africa, it has a rather long prospect. But can we perhaps become more specific in relation to how much social democracy wants to increase the benefits of integration if Mrs Mette Frederiksen is to become prime minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100511-2	Well, I have to say in relation to moving asylum treatment from Denmark to the neighbourhood, that then I consider it to be realistic. And I do that because I can feel the same movement in many of the other European countries. Too many refugees simply came to Europe in 2015, and over the past few decades too many people with a non-Western background have come to Europe. We cannot keep up; cohesion has been put under pressure; integration is lagging behind. If I still think this is realistic, it is because I can hear the same discussion in the Netherlands, the same discussion in Belgium, the same discussion in Germany, the same discussion in France. It's gonna come, but it's gonna take somebody to take the lead. That is why I could say that, unlike today, this task will have a clear priority if I become Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100601	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004100618	Thank you for that and thank you to the Prime Minister for his speech on Tuesday. After all, it was a speech in a newly renovated Parliamentary Hall, where there have been significantly better conditions for disabled people, and I and the Danish People's Party are very, very good. It's really nice, and it's nice that it happened. It's something we've needed for years. When you heard the Prime Minister's speech on Tuesday, you heard about an e-mail that the Prime Minister had received from Per. They heard about Katrine and Malou, and that's nothing new. So, in the past, the Prime Minister has met Åse and Marian, Jamil, Cecilie and Liva, Maisha and Fajame and Mona, as I believe was the Prime Minister's teacher in the primary school, hoping young people at Esbjerg Gymnasium and even more hopeful children at the Technology School at SDU in Odense. Or what about the young man who commutes between Viborg and Copenhagen? And today, the Social Democrat President was to be included, and it was with Gudrun. That is why I was just so happy on Tuesday when I left Christiansborg Palace Church in the morning and also met a real human being. I met Jesper, and I was so excited to tell you about the meeting with Jesper. What if I couldn't be in it at all? Jesper had just been dismissed from his job as a sosu assistant in Assens Municipality. He had been part-time and he really wanted to have been full-time and Jesper told about some of the things that he thought marked a good care for the elderly: An elderly care where there were dignified and decent conditions for the elderly, where they made sure that there was a smell of freshly cooked food at the nursing home, where they made sure that there was time for care and presence. He talked about all the things that I actually think many of us well know characterise a good welfare society in relation to our elderly. And now it may well be that if you heard the Prime Minister's speech on Tuesday, you would want to jump out like everyone else does in these days with Kim Larsen quotes, i.e. "Blip-boat," and God, how are you doing? However, we must also recognise that in some places there are actually some shortcomings, that there are some places where we can do better. And I just think that this example of Jesper was very good, because it was at the same time that we came over and heard an opening speech and yesterday we got a government proposal that was about that now there was much more foreign labour to the Danish labour market, because we lack hands, we need people. And there I stood with Jesper, who had been dismissed and who wanted to stay in the care of the elderly, and he would actually have liked to have gone full-time if he had been able. In fact, the FOA figures show that if those of their members who are part-time and who want to come full time were allowed to do so, there are 2,500 posts in it. In other words, it might well be that one should just spot the opportunities we have in Danish society to use the resources we already have in Danish society before one necessarily opens up to 1.4 billion Chinese. And I am not saying that there will be 1.4 billion Chinese, but Chinese society is quite large, and there will certainly be a number of Chinese people who could see the perspective of coming to Denmark and working. And not a bad word about anything other than the leadership of China, that is, the Chinese leaders. A lot of Chinese people are definitely good people. However, it is not certain that the Danish labour market has such a great deal of benefit from the fact that there are a lot of people coming in in a short time, what the government can actually do with its proposal. So I think you should think about Jesper, and I think that Jesper should be part of the PM's future speeches and I can make sure that the PM can meet Jesper if it is. And when we talk about the conditions of the elderly, we are also talking about the economic conditions of the elderly and the erosion of the economy of pensioners and early retirement through what is called the rate pool over the years. We want to put an end to this. We also believe that pensioners should take advantage of the fact that things are going well economically in Danish society, and we will also take this on the agenda in relation to the financial law to be negotiated over the next month. When we talk about health, the Prime Minister discussed it a great deal in his speech on Tuesday, and I think that is a good thing. We share the ambition that there should be greater proximity in our healthcare system. For us it is a matter of changing our health system that when you go further away from your home to go to a hospital, and when you are in the hospital for less time, there has to be another offer close to you, close to where you live. And it is the municipalities that must be the focal point for those offers. In this way, we create greater proximity in our healthcare system. It is also a situation in which we find it difficult to see that the regions then play a role, and that is why the state and municipalities can run our health services in the future, instead of it being like today, where we have three links that really have to deal with it, namely both state, regions and municipalities. When we talk about our welfare society, we also talk from the Danish People's Party about continuing to expand our police force. It is an initiative that we have had going on for a few years, that is to say to increase the police force. We do this because, among other things, we believe that there is a need for close police. There is a need for police officers who are familiar with their local area, and in this way we can also strengthen our efforts towards young people who are on the wrong track. We need to do more preventive work for young people, and the police need to be involved in this. And then we need to strengthen the visibility of the police. We got the riding police back. This is something we in the Danish People's Party have been fighting for for several years. We appreciate that. It creates security when you see visible police, and the riding policy in this context is very good to have as part of the police. Now we need to strengthen the close police with more manpower, and we also need more police officers to strengthen border controls. Border control is an effective means, it is not old-fashioned, as some have tried to describe it. This is not a temporary measure. Border controls have come to stay. It is actually very healthy and positive for a society to show where the borders are. But it also requires skilled policemen and others, among others. The Home Guard, who is helping us with that effort. Then we need a Denmark in balance. That's what we've been fighting for. And, yes, I very much regret that the new initiatives we are taking from the Danish People's Party, as they do in other parties, are not entirely new. That is what we are known for, but that is perhaps the most boring party in the Danish Parliament I know. Yet this is actually something with Denmark in balance that we want to continue to fight for. The Prime Minister did not have time to discuss it in his opening speech on Tuesday. And that seems strange to me, in view of the fact that in previous great speeches it has been a point that has received very much attention. But the Prime Minister can reach it later today, when he comes up and has to answer all these things we are debating. For us, it is a year-long struggle, that is to say, the relocation of jobs, so there are state jobs spread across the country. For the first time in 100 years, the islands have a net migration. Why do they have that? It is because we have made a political decision that it must be easier and cheaper to get to our island communities. It is because we have wanted politically that it should also be possible to live on our islands. Similarly, with our rural areas: if we are to have mortgage institutions and banks to grant loans in rural areas when people want to buy houses or they want to expand a business, then we must be able to believe that we are politically fighting this battle for years until we succeed. Then you can buy a house or expand your business in a rural area. If this alone is something we discuss for two years and then forget again, people will naturally fall away and believe that it is only inside the big cities that it works. It shouldn't be like that. If you're gonna keep the public schools out locally, there's gonna be some kids to put in them. That is why there must be some settlement, and there must be life and joy in rural areas too. Why should training places be so large in large cities? Why do we say to the young people: you must move in where it is most expensive to be, when you have to study and maybe not actually have so much money in your pocket? Why don't we have more educational institutions around the country? What about the target of 10%? the number of places in the universities is to be offered outside the four largest cities? What about the requirement to 50%? In the case of vocational education and training, should it be outside the four largest cities? Are these completely foolish proposals? No, it's not. It will be something that helps to create a Denmark in better balance. The economy of the municipalities must be better distributed. I see both the Social Democrats' proposals here not long ago, but also the government's proposals, which came up quite conveniently right here to the opening debate, as a confession that the present system of compensation is too poor. It is then surprising that a better equalization system was not negotiated in the spring. We did not get that done, and now we have 2 billion and 1.4 billion respectively. kr. Over a few years to the municipalities, which really do not have an adequate economy. Of course, we think it is fine to patch up an inadequate equalisation system, but it would be better to create a better system. Foreign policy must take a great deal of action. We welcome the fact that the number of asylum seekers, which the Prime Minister also mentioned last Tuesday, is the lowest in 9 years. It is important to keep that course, but the next step is to ensure that when we say temporary stay in Denmark, it is also temporary. And then you get help during that period until you can return to your homeland again, and then you help rebuild your homeland. It is, as the Prime Minister said, a moral obligation. We also believe that this should be a legal obligation, and then we should put action behind words, so that this happens. It's not like that today. Virtually everyone who comes to Denmark and gets asylum or family reunification stays in Danish society. It shouldn't be like that. Criminal aliens need to get out. You shouldn't be able to run around here on tolerated stays and bother Danes. You must contribute to your repatriation when you have committed crime in Denmark. And there are a lot of things that I would really like to talk about, among other things. The European Union, but now my time has passed. That is the way it is, but I will come back to it in all the questions that are now being asked, and I will look forward to them. Then I just want to read (on behalf of V, LA, K and DF) the following: Suggested adoption Since 2015, many decisions have been taken that are moving Denmark in the right direction. More are in private employment and fewer are on passive public support. There are positive developments in all parts of the country, but initiatives must continue to be taken to ensure a better balance for Denmark. We are concerned about ensuring a better climate and environment for future generations. The necessary tightening of foreign policy has been achieved. The direction must be maintained so that the number of asylum seekers continues to be kept at a very low level. At the same time, practices need to be changed so that temporary stay is also really temporary. That's common sense. The Danish Parliament looks forward to making agreements to ensure this in the autumn. The positive development means that welfare can be lifted. And the close health service must now be strengthened through a health reform that will create more closeness, security and coherence for patients in the future. • V 2)
ParlaMint-DK_20181004101713	Thank you. This proposal is also part of the further debate. Sir. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004101720	Thank you for that, and also thank you for a good speech, where we among other things. I was given the opportunity to meet Jesper and the rapporteur also pointed out that the government is planning to open up the Danish labour market to far more foreigners, among other things. from China and India. I understood the rapporteur's view that, like the Social Democratic Party, it is a really bad idea for the government to reduce what is called the limit. That is why my question is very simple: will the rapporteur today tell the Danish Parliament and the Danes that it will not agree to this either during the current period or during the forthcoming parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004101806	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004101807	Thank you. Yes, our policy is very clear. After all, we have together set a limit of money which is higher than the government has wanted for several years, and now the government is coming up with a new proposal which will then have to lower the limit of the amount. Then you have tried to choose 12 countries, and now you try to get a majority in the Folketing to lower the limit. Our position is the same, namely that we think that all resources should be used to get those who are in Denmark on board, and we should use the boom for that. There are still a lot of Danes who feel left outside the working community, and we must help them in. It is also the case that, regardless of whether we in the Danish People's Party think that it is sometimes a little too easy, Europe is free in relation to labour. There are quite a lot of people in the other European countries who can come to Denmark without any limit whatsoever, and now we are talking about people from third world countries, among others. China, which the government wants to have easier access to the Danish labour market in some areas where it is not in any way specialists, but quite ordinary workers. There will in fact be pressure on the working situation of European workers, because labour can be retrieved very far away from Denmark's borders, and we do not think this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004101926	Here you go, sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004101928	Thank you for that answer. We share the view, together with the Danish People's Party, that we actually have people in Denmark that we would like to enter the labour market, and also some young people we would like to have trained, and this is the most important task we can take on, rather than opening up the borders for a great many more foreigners to enter the Danish labour market, which among other things. can help to push wages, as the rapporteur has said. I understand the answer given by the rapporteur, so that what the government has played out with will not come true if it is in the Danish People's Party. If, after a parliamentary election, you are in a situation where there will continue to be a blue government, and if Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is part of such a government, nor will the Danish People's Party be able to participate in it under those circumstances. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102020	Our policy is crystal clear, including in this area, and it is the same policy that we have before and after elections. I know it's gonna sound banal to somebody, but in here it can sometimes be a little surprising. That's the way it is. It should be borne in mind that we must not only make policy in a boom, we must make a policy that makes Denmark stick together over the years, even at the time when, unfortunately, we are again going to have a recession, and we know that there will be more unemployed again. If we are to have a society that is connected over time, the solution to a boom is not just to open up the floodgates for outside labour, because it is a labour force that we must expect to be here in times of recession. And who is the first to be pushed out? Yeah, these are the ones we needed to use the boom now to help in. So it's often the same people who become losers in this game over the years, and we don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102118	Mrs. Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102119	Thank you. And thank you for a very fine speech where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentions the whole of Denmark, the vicinity, our skilled police and so of course, one is tempted to say, immigration. And immigration is, of course, one of the most expensive things for So I'd like to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl agreed with the Left that had the Social Democrats been in power from 2015 until now, so had the bill been much bigger?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102157-2	Yes, I have no doubt that if the then chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, had been allowed to continue her work with the Radical Left, it would have gone very wrong. Well, it would have gone really, really wrong. For then we would not have made the restrictions on foreign policy that we have jointly made since 2015 and that have ensured that the number of asylum seekers is now the lowest in 9 years, as the Prime Minister also mentioned on Tuesday. And then, of course, these expenses would have been much, much higher, and the challenges we have in Danish society today, which are large, would have been much greater. So in this way, it was absolutely crucial in relation to foreign policy that we had a change of government in 2015. We are pleased with the cooperation we have had with the government in this area in recent years, although our patience is sometimes put to the test because there are some things we would like to go a little faster on, and it is not always that the government can be drawn at that pace. But that is also where we hope that the adoption we jointly have today illustrates that we are ready to take some new steps together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102301	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102301-2	Thank you. That's what makes me ask, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: We are aware that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is preoccupied with this temporary stay, but could Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl doesn't tell us a little about what exactly are some solutions that the Danish People's Party wants us to choose in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102322	I would like to sign for the Prime Minister to actually say that it was Tuesday evening in one of the television programmes that he said that, apart from being morally correct, it is also common sense that you should go back to your home country. And that is also what has been reflected in the adoption. We want to make it our own words, too, that it is common sense. And then we have to find the tools for it. It is clear that this is a problem, because when has so much connection been established with the Danish society that even if you have the opportunity to return to your home country and actually have to do so legally, it will be lifted by the fact that you have got such a strong link with Denmark that you no longer have to go back anyway? After all, we negotiated this very intensively in November-December last year, and there we had a chance of what it took to avoid establishing that link with Denmark. So, after seven years, for example, if you can return to your homeland, then you will return to your homeland. Then it is not the case that one can say that the link is now so great with Danish society that it cancels the demand for a return. After all, these are the tools we need to get hold of with these negotiations. Well, we need to look at exactly what needs to be changed to ensure that we do. And there we have had a lot of discussion about egu, that is, the fact that you can have a link with the labour market, which means that you do not have to return. But it can in fact be other things that are more important.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102436	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102439	Thank you for that, and thank you for a very nice speech. Somehow, I'm glad that Mr. Knox... Kristian Thulesen Dahl has met some people. Me, too. I've met some folk pensioners. In fact, I have met some of the 300 000 pensioners who have nothing more than a retirement pension and who, for some of the poorest people, have lost over the last few years what is a total of DKr 8 000. a year because their national pension is constantly becoming less and less worthwhile. And it does, as the Danish People's Party knows, because a majority in here takes the money from the folk pension and spends it on social stakes instead. I understand that it is now the Danish People's Party's priority that this should not be the case. Is it correct to understand that the Danish People's Party and I would really like to support this and support it now intends to use these financial negotiations to ensure that the pensioners get some of the money that they have lost over the past many, many years, among others. because the Danish People's Party has been involved in taking the money from them?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102556	If the Danish People's Party had had 90 seats, this system wouldn't have looked like it did. Because it has been obvious over the years that we have thought that it has been fundamentally wrong that one has hollowed out, among other things. the public pensionists' economy through the rate pool. But we have respected the fact that there was a majority in this Parliament who had the view that this system should work, and we have the view that it is better for us to share the money that comes out of it than for us to be outside. But when we take it up this autumn, it is because we think that the time has now come for it to be possible to have a majority here in the Folketing to recognise that the system is One should not, year after year, undermine the economy of the pensioners and early retirementists, and that is why we have put it on the agenda of the financial law negotiations that will have to be here in the coming weeks and months, to try to put an end to this system, so that at least the erosion that is taking place by people's pensioners and early retirementists' economies is stopped. Then it is true that there is a discussion about: what about what has been lost along the way, etc.? We have to take a look at that, but we have to stop this erosion of the pensioners' economy. And we very much hope that there will be a majority in this Parliament who will support us in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102700	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102702	This is so funny, because there is actually a majority in the Danish Parliament who says that they must now lie down under a majority and rather share in sharing than being outside. So if all the parties in here did what they actually say, then that less regulation would no longer be there. That is why I am surprised that at some point we will not get anything done about it soon. But let's just leave it alone. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that now this must stop, and then there is a discussion about the money that has been lost. - Sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl does not see that there is something hypocritical about on the one hand for incredibly many years to have stood autumn after autumn and boasted of the money that has been handed out to vulnerable groups. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have taken away from the people's pensionists, and on the other hand we would like to have credit to do something about it in the future, without in any way patching up everything that has gone wrong in the past for the many pensioners who have far too little money between their hands, something which I believe, by the way, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl agrees with me? But that's one of the reasons why Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has taken a great deal of money from them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102818	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102818-2	No, it's not. On the contrary, I think it is quite right that over the years we have both discussed this system and that we have also said that we basically think that what is going on is wrong and that we are then trying to find the right time to put an end to it. So I think that this is about political craftsmanship and whether you can succeed with what you want, and we have put this on the agenda now, because we believe that the time has now come and if Mrs Pernille Skipper is right in her introduction to the question, that is to say that there is a majority in this Parliament who has the same view, then we should also succeed. And it would be fantastic if we could have our policy implemented in this way. Then I would like to say to the point that over the years we have been sharing some money, saying: yes, you have. Have you ever hidden where the money comes from? No, of course you haven't. Have we had this kind of discussion before, in relation to whether the system is basically right or wrong? Yeah, we've had that. Did I enter them myself? Yes, I do. Have I said along the way that I think basically this is the wrong construction? Yes, I do. Now we are trying to find the right time to hope that there can be a majority who are prepared to break up this system and we believe that the time has come now so that we can stop the erosion of the pensioners' economy. And I am glad that Mrs Pernille Skipper thinks it is a good thing that we are doing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102928	Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004102933	Thank you. I would also like to sign for the speech, especially for the part where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl draws a voice from society into the Assembly Hall, here in the form of Jesper, who has something in mind in relation to the political situation. I think that's really good. I always think we should listen to the voices that are out there. Some other voices that are out there and that have something on their minds are, after all, the Danish companies that desperately lack labour and who also want to do so, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl points out, namely to get the last Danes into the labour market. But they also say that it is not enough. It is not enough to meet the needs they have and therefore they have a heartfelt desire that we help them to be better able to recruit from abroad. I would just like to ask quite simply: what is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's response to that voice from society, that is, private companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103024	It is basically that they need to be better at using the people we have in Danish society. I understand that some companies may find it more difficult to help people who may have been outside the labour market for several years to enter the labour market. I understand that as a company you think it's more attractive and I don't blame the companies if you can find someone from abroad that you can automatically put into your business and that can then work 100% from day one. So, the fact that companies would like to have a large supply of labour and would like to from all over the world, I do not blame them. That is a perfectly logical point of view for companies. But the thing is, in here, you don't just have to run a business, you have to run a country. So you have to have a country hanging together, and we also have to have that over the years, both when the economy goes well, but also when the economy goes not so well. If we do not use a boom to bring everyone along, including those people who otherwise find it very difficult to get into the labour market, then we are actually losing an opportunity with the boom. Because it is not the case that you cannot seek outside labour. There are plenty of opportunities for this already today, and that is why we now have the highest number of foreigners ever working in Danish society. So I'm just afraid that when you open it up more, you really lose that opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103137	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103139	Actually, I think it's the other way around. In fact, I believe that companies are looking at this in the opposite direction in relation to the developments described by the rapporteur. It is easier for a Danish company in the first place to take in a Dane who lives right around the corner, can speak, knows society, is integrated and has children in school and all of this. After all, it is immediately easier to integrate such an employee into your company. The companies point out that we need extra hands in addition to getting the last Danes with the latter, I think we agree that we must of course lift, especially in a boom, I fully agree with that. But when companies point out that, in addition to that, we also need extra hands, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl saw that we also owe it to us to listen to what the companies are saying?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103224	Of course, we must listen, both to Jesper, whom I emphasise, and to Gudrun, who was mentioned earlier here, and to all those mentioned by the Prime Minister through the recent speakers, and to the companies. Of course we do. Then you might wonder about this whole discussion about whether there is any possibility of companies being able to get outside workers today. Yes, there is. That is why we have never had as many foreigners working in Danish society as we now have. More than one in five people living in Copenhagen are born abroad, so it is not the case that foreigners do not come to Denmark. But is there anything about Copenhagen that also challenges our cohesion in relation to what are some things that move if there are many foreigners? Of course there is. We must have a look at that too. For the fact that we are now going down in terms of income levels, I would say that you can get everyone you want from the European Union. That's where you can pick up all the workers you want. There are no demands. And, by the way, you can pick up people from third world countries if you want to pay them 418,000 kroner. Every year including. So you have opportunities today to pick up people from outside, if you want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103325	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103328	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I would like to say straight away that I can sign that the Danish People's Party actually has quite a good sense of humor, because I know several of the members of the Danish People's Party who have an excellent sense of humor. So I do not think that the rapporteur should overrule the talent of the party. What I want to ask you is the climate challenges, and there is not a single word about them. When you have seen quotes from the Danish People's Party, you can get a little bit uncertain about what the Danish People's Party's climate policy is • quite concrete, in terms of whether the climate challenges are man-made or not man-made and I would like to get a clear answer today. What is the position of the Danish People's Party? Is it manmade? Or isn't it manmade?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103419	Thank you for the question, and also thank you for the fact that it has been noted that we actually do. Now it's not necessarily me, but in the party there are people with humor. I'm glad to hear that, sir. Uffe Elbæk emphasizes. Then we'll see if we can find it. I firmly believe that climate change is also man-made. I am not somebody running around saying that all the climate change that is taking place is natural. Human influence is also there. What, of course, in the discussion can be difficult to get a hold on completely is how much of what. Perhaps I believe most that, with regard to some of the man-made in relation to climate change, we are speeding up some things in climate change, perhaps some climate change that would come in the long term, but which will then happen faster and more drastically due to human activity. One can say that the precautionary principle that one must then put down on it, when one can see it here, will of course be to try to work constructively with this in the Folketing. So what do we do? What are we taking of initiatives? This is the way the Danish People's Party has dealt with it. This is also why, just before the summer holidays, on 29 June, for example, the whole of the Danish Parliament. I believe that in other countries we are somewhat envyed by the fact that we in Denmark can actually make such an agreement in agreement which points 30-40 years forward in relation to energy policy. This shows that we think it is good that we are also taking some initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103550	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103551	What is still unclear to me is whether the Danish People's Party sees the human impact on climate change as crucial or not. It is still unclear after the answer given to me by the rapporteur just now. There is something I do not understand, in relation to the Danish People's Party, which otherwise cares very, very much about how many refugees are coming to Europe and perhaps also to Denmark. Because if we lean on the UN figures, we know that if we do not do something fast enough when it comes to climate change, we will have around 2050 250 million refugees due to climate change. So I do not understand that the Danish People's Party does not have greater ambitions in this area than what we normally hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103641	I certainly think we have ambitions, but it is clear that our ambitions are also based on a recognition of Denmark's share of global development. Now I have had the opportunity to stay on the Manhattan in New York for a few days, and I have seen what is moving there and what are some petrol-consuming cars driving around and air-conditioning systems that roar all the time, and illuminated windows in virtually every office I could see, even at night, even though there were no people in them, etc. The discussion we often have in Denmark is about how far we should take the lead in relation to everyone else, because it is said that we must now also ensure that we save the planet from climate change. There we just allow ourselves to be the voice in the class that sometimes asks the question: What does it matter to the individual Dane when it is seen in that perspective that it is in relation to what is Denmark's share of all this? So it is not at all a question of us not taking part in initiatives and that we will in future also be among the circles of parties that take responsibility in this context. But we also think that there should be room to ask these a little more critical questions as to how we actually put it into practice and what it means for the individual Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103750	The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103753	Sir. After all, Kristian Thulesen Dahl spoke a lot about the elderly and about the need for employees in the care of the elderly. This is actually an interesting example, because if you implemented the Danish People's Party's integration policy, people who come here should not work. They must be locked up and wait; there must be a stop to integration. But last year, at least from 2016 to 2017 • more people were employed with non-western backgrounds in the older sector than employees with Danish backgrounds. This has been welcomed not least by the sectoral chairman of the FOA, Torben Klitmøller Hollmann, who says: "We need many people to apply to this area because in the coming years there will be a huge shortage in the sosu area. There is therefore the problem of the Danish People's Party's policy in this area that it is not really connected. We want to do something for the elderly, but the refugees must not be integrated, the employees must not be picked up abroad and, finally, the elderly will be waiting for the help they need. That is why it is sad that once again, on the first working day of Parliament's opening debate, we are rolling out the nail mat to prevent the government from implementing its economic policy in this area, a policy which could also remedy this situation. It is a pity, and also a little strange, that we support a government whose economic policy, time and again the nail mat is laid out to prevent its implementation. That brings us to the natural question that I can ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Is it still the case that, although the Danish People's Party supports the government, after an election, a queen will be demanded and the Prime Minister will resign?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004103932-2	I have to answer that, sir. Morten Østergaard actually asks, namely FOA's figures. At the end of the day there will be a major debate on the parliamentary situation after an election, but the FOA figures show that if those members of the FOA who are part-time but wish to be full-time are allowed to do so, there are some 2,500 posts in it. When do you realise that there are resources in Danish society that are not used today but that would like to be used? When do you get to work? I believe that the employment rate of women from non-western countries in Denmark is 47 per cent. It is not refugees who are here on a temporary basis, but there are some who are here on a permanent basis. Why do we not get them out to those jobs before we start talking about the fact that it is very, very important to have refugees who come here and are here for a period of time integrated as soon as possible? Why do we not get those who are here permanently and who have come many years ago set in motion? If the labour market screams at that labour force, then it is getting started getting these people started. It will benefit the economy, it will benefit people's self-esteem, and it will provide labour. But the labour force we have in Danish society, which is not being used today, is not so busy putting it into practice. It is more concerned that new labour is being taken from outside. I think that is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104057	Sir, I'm afraid so. Kristian Thulesen Dahl then take up with FOA. I just quoted the chairman of the sector that is part of the FOA as being concerned about the lack of labour in this area and that he was pleased that it had been possible to hire a number of people with a non-Western background because otherwise there would have been no more. So let us rejoice instead of getting so excited. But it is perhaps possible to get an answer to the specific question: will the current Prime Minister be overthrown after a parliamentary election? I ask because when there was an election campaign in Denmark ten years ago, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard said on that occasion to Mr Pia Kjærsgaard. Naser Khader, that now you had to make up your mind, because you couldn't play a double game. There Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard said: "You cannot say on the one hand that Anders Fogh Rasmussen is a prime minister candidate and that you want a queen. Either one or the other. A queen woman means that Anders Fogh must resign. That is what Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard said at the time. Now the PM's name is Lars Løkke Rasmussen, but the view is not Mr. Løkke Rasmussen. Naser Khaders or the defunct New Alliances. It's the Danish People's Party. That is why I just ask: is the Prime Minister supposed to resign after a parliamentary election? Does the Danish People's Party still demand a queen?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104209	Our position is that we support the present Prime Minister also as Prime Minister after a forthcoming election, but as Prime Minister of a newly formed government. It is clear that the ultimate way in which we can provoke it is, if necessary, to have a queen's queen. That's the way it is. These are the parliamentary conditions. This is what Mr. Morten Østergaard is really something about, because it is something that the Radical Left has read up to every election to know what to do after a parliamentary election. Then I just have to say about employment in the elderly sector, that my answer was just about "and it is also in relation to the quote from the FOA that those with non-western backgrounds that are in Denmark, who have permanent residence permits in Denmark, and many of whom are here with Danish citizenship, then have to work. I mean, what's that? It is said as if we in the Danish People's Party think it is important that we keep them outside the labour market. They have to go to work. They're gonna have to order something. I mean, what's that? And if the employment rate of women with a non-Western background who are in Denmark and who either have a permanent residence permit or Danish citizenship is 47 per cent, while it is 70-80 per cent. For Danes, they have to go to work. What is the point of questioning whether they should? They have to. Whether it is in the care of the elderly or elsewhere, we have to find out, but they have to order something.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104333	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104336	Thank you. In SF we are concerned with ensuring that there are fewer students than today who are under pressure. We can see that they are under pressure from the structures we have put down on them that they must quickly pass through the education system, and we are also concerned with having an education system where you can become smarter all your life. That is why we were so opposed to the education ceiling, which was adopted in 2016, because it means that a nurse who has been trained and who finds out that he wants to be a teacher cannot be allowed to do so, or that a teacher who has been trained and suddenly finds out that he really wants to use his competences to become a social worker cannot be allowed to do so. We believe that it is contrary to common sense that we cannot become wiser in our education system. There is a majority against the education ceiling, even so soon after it was introduced. Social democracy and the Liberal Alliance are now also opposed to the education ceiling and have said that it must be abolished. Then I actually came to sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl already on Tuesday and said that now I wanted to ask this question because I would like to give the Danish People's Party a chance to say: yes, let us now get rid of the educational ceiling. Now I'm just so excited, because I've been waiting for these two days and I've been saying to all the people: look with me when Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl on the open screen abolishes the educational ceiling once and for all. So what exactly is the Danish People's Party's position on the educational ceiling? Can we do away with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104458	We really think that there is a lot of logic in saying to young people who are taking an education that it is also fair to try it out in relation to the education and try it out. In other words, when taxpayers have paid for an education and you also get SU while you are studying, we basically think that is fair enough. That is what the educational ceiling is all about. After all, we have made some exceptions which say that if you get an education in an area where it is difficult to get a job, and you want another education where you have easier access to work, you can get an exemption. We have made some rules that if you have taken an education, after six years you must be free to take another education. But basically, if you as a young person take an education on behalf of others, you have to try and see if it doesn't work to use that education. We think that is common sense, and that is why we are sticking to it a little. Whether it can be made even more flexible and so on, we would, of course, like to look at, but basically we are not running from the agreement we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104604	I am a little sorry to hear that, because it is true that you can take a new education after 6 years, but 6 years is a long time for a young person who finds out that he or she wants to spend his or her life on something else, and you can also see that this means that there are a lot of people who drop out just before they finish their education because they think that they dare not because they are not sure that they need it for so long of their working life. I think that is unreasonable. But I note that there is a majority, the Social Democratic Party and a governing party, and also the Liberal Alliance, which has been sidelined by the government saying that it must be abolished. Since there is this majority, the Danish People's Party tends to be so pragmatic that you want to discuss it. So if you can find an alternative funding for this proposal, is that something that the Danish People's Party wants to take a look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104646	Now we are not in an area where it is heartblood in that it is very, very important to hold on to the education ceiling, but we just think there is some logic in it, and that is why we are not running from any agreement we have made on this. We are negotiating with the government and other parties, among others. on the subject of lifelong learning, in other words how we can ensure that we have a better situation in which we can continue to train in a working life. If I had to choose between spending money on abolishing the education ceiling and spending money on ensuring that there is more lifelong learning, I think that the latter is the most important thing for many people. It is just to say that there are some priorities here, because we cannot just knock our arms out and say that if it is 300 million. kr., it costs to abolish the education ceiling, so we just do it. Then we have to assess it in relation to what we could have got in the education system. If we had 300 million. kr. What could we really get for it somewhere else?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104745	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104748	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech, too, about Jesper. I was also accompanied by an exciting person on my way from the church back to Christiansborg. There is just one problem: I have forgotten the name of the person, and then it does not count in the world of politics. But I remember all the points about the challenges for the medical secretaries. I would like to stay a little in the field of health care in my question to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. After all, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party have had a number of common views on the future of the regions. We both want to get rid of the regions, not in order to draw an easier organisational diagram, but because it is fundamentally wrong that there is so much geographical difference in the quality of the treatment offered in Denmark. But I would like to ask about the family doctors, because that is also one of the things we are going to touch on in the health reform that we are about to do. It is incredibly important for the Conservative People's Party that there is the proximity of having your local doctor • the general practitioners, who play a huge role in very many families and who know the patient particularly well. I would like to hear from the Danish People's Party whether it agrees that the family doctor should still play a central role in the future. Unfortunately, we are standing right now and can look forward to that by 2021 there will be 300,000 Danes who cannot have their own family doctor, because so many have closed the access of patients today. So throughout this discussion about proximity and the local: Doesn't Dansk Folkeparti agree that we should also look at the family doctor as an important role?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004104914	Well, that's the best thing, you might say. The very best thing about the close health care system is that you have a doctor, a family doctor, with whom you have a very close relationship and who knows the family relationship, which means that when you get to the doctor, there is a high degree of confidence at first, and you don't have to explain it all over again. That goes without saying. Then we also know that it is practically challenged because, as Mrs Abildgaard says, there are a large number of places where access to the family doctor is closed. And you can understand that: when no more can enter, no more can enter. We have a doctor who is immediately our doctor, but if I go in and see when he has time, then I think it could be a few months before I can actually pop in in a while. Then it's nice for me that our doctor is in a doctor's office, where there are some other doctors who actually make it possible for us to get to the doctor. That is the way we may have to look at it here: that you can have a doctor who is an anchored in the attachment you have, but a doctor who works with other doctors, which means that there is the flexibility that if you have to do more quickly, it can actually be done. So it is not with the family doctor, but with someone who is in the same house, and who knows? These are the practical solutions that we need to work out in the way we need to find in the coming years to make it work out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105035	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105037	I fully agree with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in that we need to look a little more modern on this family doctor thing. There are many who have such an old-fashioned view that it is such a solo doctor who has his own little clinic without there being other employees. It certainly doesn't have to be. It's that personal attachment that's important, and it can easily be in a medical center where there are more doctors, nurses, midwives, and what might be relevant. One of the ways in which we can ensure that there are not so many doctors who have closed down the entry of new patients today is that it is 70% who have closed off the approach • that we train more in the thesis called general medicine. We have done this with the Danish People's Party recently, but it is pointed out that there is a need to do it further. Is this something that the Danish People's Party could be willing to discuss in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105118	Yes, we would very much like to discuss that. Our health rapporteur, Mrs Liselott Blixt, has been out on several occasions saying that there are too few doctors being trained. Also in relation to the absorption that came here after the summer, she was immediately out on our behalf saying that she thought it was simply too small; there should be a greater intake generally to come in and be trained as a doctor. That is what is needed in order for us to be able to have more people on the different specialties as well. So that's the only way to go. There have been too few doctors trained for a number of years, and we bear the consequences of this now. It is urgent to change it, and we would be very, very happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105156	The next question is Mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105200	Thank you. During this period, the government has tried several times to raise the pensionable age. This means that Danes, who have been working for many years on the labour market, worked hard throughout a lifetime and who may already at this stage think it is quite inconceivable to have to work so long, the government will have to have to work even longer. Fortunately, it has succeeded in thwarting those plans, among others. through good cooperation between the rapporteur's party and my own party. But it's still a hot dream for the government to go through with this. The other day, Finance Minister Kristian Jensen said in Berlingske Tidende that it was still an ambition and that it was still something that was expected to be achieved. I would like the rapporteur to explain the position of the Danish People's Party on this matter. Can we continue to count on you to be against raising your pensionable age?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105247	After all, the retirement age will increase with the rules that have already been made. What the government has seen from time to time is that it must increase even more. Already with the increase that has been proposed, we know very well and it has also been discussed this morning that there will be people who feel they are getting into trouble because they rightly feel worn out and feel that it is going to be a very high retirement age that we are already getting with the existing rules. So this thing about wanting to add an increase or a faster phase-in and something like that that we hear from time to time is not a good idea. What we need to use our strength for is instead of seeing how we can help those people who, after all, are now going to be longer, from one area where they will not be able to be any longer, to another job. In relation to the discussion we have about the lack of labour, it is also about whether we are capable of getting people retrained in an area where they cannot work any longer, to another area instead of abandoning them as seniors, but still away with years up to the official retirement age. I believe that a great many Danes would like to be on the labour market. It is part of the identity of many to be associated with the labour market too to feel that in a senior age you are still in demand. That is what we need to spend much more gunpowder on than to continue the discussion on whether or not to increase the retirement age further. We're not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105410	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105411	Thank you. That was, in fact, a clear answer. Now I have the opportunity to ask a follow-up question, and then I can go for a crystal clear answer. Because sometimes it is the case with the Danish People's Party that you go along with some compromises with the government, where you say that yes, we are not really in favour of this direction, but it would have been worse if we had not gone along with the compromise. So we just want a crystal clear answer and a guarantee that the Danish People's Party will not under any circumstances support any increase in retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105444	It is tempting just to say yes, but it would break with my principle that we never have ultimate demands or ultimate things. I think the questioner is actually well aware of where we stand and that the very clear answer I gave covers the fact that there is a very clear awareness among us of what is sensible here. I have to say this to the Prime Minister in the past, but he can take it, and it is nice that the Prime Minister's re-elections have grown bigger because there are some of the things in the government's policy that it has not been implemented. He should be happy about that. We're the true friends. This is one of the areas where I think it would have been a little harder for the Prime Minister to go out and meet the Danes in the election campaign if it had been decided that the retirement age should increase more and faster than what has already been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105536	Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105541	It was a very interesting exchange of words we just had here between Mr. Dan Jørgensen and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, because what is really the problem is the rules already adopted, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says. The story about Jesper lacks the dimension that Jesper now doesn't know how old he is to last very long on the labour market. If he is 30 years old, he must last until he is 72 years old, and if you start at 18 years of age on the labour market today he does not do so then you have to last until you are 75 years old. We know that many people today feel worn out, unable to last, just until they reach 60 years, but now they have the prospect of being able to last 55 years. And the Danish People's Party, like the Social Democratic Party to some extent, is deeply involved in all the agreements that make the retirement age rise and increase in the coming years or in future generations. What is the Danish People's Party's response to those who cannot stand to be on the labour market for 55 years; who cannot stand to be there until they are 72 or 75 years old? What's the answer to Jesper if he asked?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105656	Well, that is quite relevant, because it is true, as the questioner has said, that political agreements have already been made to increase the retirement age, that we must stand by and that this is the case and that it presents some challenges for some of the people in our society who have very grueling jobs, of a different type than ours, that is to say, who have some heavy lifting, and who are lying on the rooftops in the wind and weather, for example. Those who, regardless of the weather, lay cobblestones out here in front. Well, it presents some challenges for many of these people. That is also why I am saying that the most important political task in this field over the coming years will be to show those people that they will actually be able to switch to other types of jobs where it is possible to do so. What could that be? Well, if you have to make a rafter for a house, it may be that you can make it inside a hall where there is temperate and where there are machines that make the promises so you don't have to. In other words, there are opportunities to use the technological developments that we see. It is also true, in relation to the heavy lifting that takes place in the care of the elderly, that you can get aids as a sosu assistant, or whatever it is, to remedy the damage you can otherwise get. After all, there are plenty of things we can do that prevent wear and tear that prevent work injuries. And that's one of the things I think is going to be the most important thing in relation to these people who otherwise work in areas where you can't expect them to work as long as the retirement age is going to require.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105822	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105825	Yes, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, one can have a pious hope that all physically hard jobs and mentally hard jobs disappear. They don't, and I don't even think so, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl himself believes in. You could also choose, as we have called for, to terminate the conciliation and agreements that you have about the increase in the retirement age, precisely in order to ensure those people who will continue to have the hard, hard-working jobs and who start early on in the labour market. Because what are they gonna live on? At the same time, there has been a reduction in the rate of unemployment benefit, a de facto abolition of the early retirement pension, a reduction in the level of cash benefits and so on. etc. What are the lives of those who cannot endure until they are 72 or 75 years old?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004105911	In fact, there are some interesting questions coming, about labour market policy and people's situation, because on the one hand it is said that we are a society that so much lacks labour and needs all hands to an extent, so now we have to open up to the possibility of a number of Chinese entering the Danish labour market and, on the other hand, they say that some people are being worn out so that they cannot be on the labour market. Why not use the boom and the situation we are in to look at how to get the two ends to meet, that is to say by telling the companies that these people must have a chance when they get older? Then companies must have a place in which jobs actually benefit these people so that they can stay here, because it is not because these people who are worn out want to leave the labour market; it is because they do not have a job situation in view that they can pay with the body they have after a long life. So it's about giving the people some offers that are suitable for them so that we can keep them on the labour market and hold on to their competences instead of pushing them out and just saying: then you have to get out of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004110013	Then we have come to the last question in this round, and that is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004110018	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. Now that we're in reality, I was around to look at day offers all day yesterday, by which I both became smarter at Lolland, Copenhagen, Slagelse, Odense. There isn't much time out there, you just have to see it applies both to our smallest children, it applies in our hospitals, it applies in our nursing home. I have understood the Danish People's Party in the same way as I understand my own party, namely that when more children and more older people arrive, more hands must also come in the wake of it. On the other hand, the government has promised to go the opposite way: not just maintain the status quo, but go the opposite way, so there are fewer hands in a time when there are actually a lot more children and older people. I'd like to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: What does the Danish People's Party expect in the coming years if it is that the present majority continues?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004110107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004110108	Was it Lolland, Slagelse and Odense? Was Holbæk there, too? That was a hell of a ride, man. I also hope that there has still been time to be in the individual places and that you have not just been in transport. Now it's a small country we have, so it's gonna be okay. I believe that what is our utmost duty is to ensure that there are resources around the municipalities in Denmark for proper welfare, as well as in the area of children. I do not see many municipalities wishing to say: we want to cut back on children; we want to ensure that there are poor standards in our day care institutions. I'm not experiencing that. I find it said that one would actually like there to be proper standards, that one would like there to be proper conditions for our children, even when they are going to kindergarten or crèche. And what this is all about for us is that the municipalities have an economy that makes it possible to deliver it. That is where we think there is a problem I also mentioned in an earlier speech. I mean, when you come, I'd just like to say "sorry" the term "sorry" by 2 billion. kr. to the municipalities in order to correct the shortcomings of the past, or the government comes and says that now we will come with 1.4 billion. kr. over the next two years, it has to be a confession case, compared to the fact that we have an economy in the municipalities today that is inadequate. And that's where I actually think the key is to solve these things. So it is, after all, about the fact that when we say no to large-scale tax cuts, it is about having money in the box for welfare in the future too. When it comes to equalisation between municipalities, it is to ensure that in all municipalities there is a sufficient economy to provide proper welfare. These are some of the focal points that we have in order to achieve the objective that I believe we have in common.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004110240	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004110244	I also see that we have a common ambition here. That's why I'm so interested to know what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl actually expects his partners in the government. When they go out and say something that is so diametrically opposed to what we can stand and establish a common understanding about here, namely that it is not a question of stupid municipal politicians that it is not a question of the fact that every year, when the budget is to be laid down, they do not sit and discuss where they can do better in their city and their municipality, but more discuss where they can find the money this year, then our children, our sick, our elderly. I think it is unworthy. I also think it's stupid at least when it comes to our young children, where we know that the first 1,000 days of their lives are absolutely crucial. So what is it, sir? Kristian Thulesen Dahl expects if the current majority continues? What is it, sir? Kristian Thulesen Dahl expects to get through since the eggs are over there in that basket?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004110340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004110344	You could say it's very simple. In other words, the government has had an ambition that public consumption should be reduced either by zero growth or that it should only increase by 0.3 per cent. We have a wish that there should be more money in the box for welfare. The government has had a desire to spend part of the amount available on tax relief, and there we have said no, there is no room for that, because there must also be money for the public sector in the coming years. After all, these are fundamental points of view that we have and which we have also put through. This means that there is now more money in the box in the coming years to expand our welfare societies, including in relation to public welfare, than there would otherwise have been if we had agreed to the wishes put on the table in front of us. This is one of the reasons why a better economy can also be found in the municipalities. But what is just important to us is that the economy is properly distributed among the municipalities. And there we just think that in recent days and weeks some things have come out about the way in which the parties have acted, which must show that this is a confession case, in relation to the fact that the existing system does not work and that the compensation system we know today must be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004110434	We're not gonna get any more questioners in this round, so I'm gonna say thank you to mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. And I welcome Mrs Britt Baker in her capacity as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004110521	The opening of the parliament I hope we all remember to feel and appreciate what a big thing it is to be able to sit in one of the 179 chairs. Being elected is something very special. There is a great legacy to promise after the many men and women who, with the support of the people, have created the Denmark we know. It is primarily based on cooperation • a collaboration that has helped to develop Denmark into one of the world's best societies. And we have We are nine different parties in the Folketing, and although we each have our own starting points and each have our own views on the world, we, at least 90 of us, have to agree to change the world. For the last three years, the Left has done exactly that: put the parties behind us together. The government has made a total of 117 political agreements and collaborated with all the parties of the Danish Parliament and a cooperation that has made Denmark stronger and richer. In almost all areas today we have a more stable and more balanced Denmark than just 3 years ago. For there was a time when everything looked much more bad, where there was no development in Denmark, but only settlement. At that time we had a rural minister who thought that rural depopulation was irreversible. We have put that position to shame. We decided to reverse that trend. We decided to make it easier to create development in the municipalities. We decided to make Denmark's greatest relocation of state jobs because we thought the balance should be restored. We decided to strengthen our infrastructure so that Mom and Dad wouldn't have to sit in line, but could spend more time with the family. We decided to lower the price of ferry tickets, so it is easier to get around the whole of Denmark. And then we have decided to make it easier to operate so that jobs can flourish throughout the country. Mrs Mette Frederiksen says: Let us reunite Denmark. I would say to Mrs Mette Frederiksen: we have already done so. Denmark is not divided. Denmark is not perfect; there is always something we can do better, do different, renew and improve, but Denmark is not a divided country. Ventelists have been significantly reduced, because we have added billions to health care. We have done so because we could see that there were things that were not good enough; that the waiting time for treatment should be shorter and cancer treatment should be better. We have added billions to the municipalities because we could see that money was missing for the very close tasks. And then we have tightened the immigration policy 98 times, because we believe that the number of asylum seekers matters. We have provided companies with better conditions, so more than 146 000 private jobs have been created since the elections, yes, in fact there have never been so many Danes who have a job to stand up to. And I am sure that the people who have replaced the cash aid with a permanent job, colleagues and a working community do not think that Denmark is divided. I heard Mrs Mette Frederiksen say that things are going well in Denmark. I very much agree with that. The ambitions and visions that we had for Denmark when we took over the government in 2015 have set the right course for a course that has brought us far and which can bring us even further. Social democracy has put forward a kind of plan to show how social democracy will prioritise. Unfortunately, it is not really possible for economists to reconcile the plan; there are quite simply no figures. The Social Democratic plan is distributed to all: social outlays, community hospitals, free dental care, the abolition of integration benefits, the abolition of the ceiling on cash benefits. And that's how I could stay with the list is long. It is no wonder that economists find it a little difficult to make everything work together. But if the economists do not want to be behind Mrs Mette Frederiksen, then we must hope that the parties in the red bloc will. It doesn't look like it. The discussion about who will be the Prime Minister of the Red Block will never end. A recent statement showed that the government has already delivered 240 out of 280 electoral promises. When the Social Democratic Party last sat in government, there was an inventory of 100 promises in 100 days. And remember, that was when you were friends in the red block when you could agree on who was going to be prime minister. The government has united the blue parties on many good agreements. We have created a strengthened, balanced and a united Denmark, a stronger Denmark, where we actually have money to finance our visions. A few days ago, we presented an initiative that strengthens the young people who go to university. The students must be prepared for the future... a future that neither of us knows. It is a difficult task that requires freedom and flexibility. I myself have been through the education system and experienced the pressure. But we want to remove some of the pressure that many students experience and that hurts right into their stomachs. It is so important that we create good conditions for our young people. These are the ones on which we must build our future, and they are, of course, the ones on which we must create a favourable framework. Similarly, we must create a good framework for the smart hands. Wise hands are just as important as smart heads, because without people who choose a practically based education, we are not an entire society. That is why we have presented a vocational school initiative to ensure that we develop smart hands. We have also presented a psychiatry plan, which sets aside 2.1 billion. kr. to help more people out of their darkness. It is so difficult for those who have pain inside, and for the relatives and the surroundings who so much want to help, but who are uncertain about what it is that is needed. We have to do something here. We have a duty to do something for these people. And we will, because we have ambitions and visions to make the world's best society even better and bring everyone along. That is also why we will shortly be presenting a health reform aimed at ensuring better coherence in the treatments and raising the Danish health service even higher. We will present a visionary climate plan to make Denmark even greener. Indeed, we have great ambitions for the parliamentary year we have just started. In blue block we have spent the last 3 years delivering results, creating a stronger and more balanced Denmark. We'll keep doing that. We can do this because we are behind one single course, one united vision and one Prime Minister's candidate. We have a common course that makes Denmark freer, makes Denmark richer and makes Denmark safer. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004111403	Thank you. We move on to the series of questions, and the first questioner is Mr. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004111410	Thank you for that and also thank the rapporteur for the speech. It was good to hear the Left's offer of what the world should look like, and that of course also applies to Denmark. When you have looked outside Christiansborg, you have also seen that there have been some very, very large advertisements, and the Prime Minister's face has filled the city picture, and the message has been that you really want to make the welfare of the Danes better. Therefore, it has also been interesting when you dig a little in the reality that is out there, what it is we can look forward to. When you ask in the Ministry of Finance, in the coming years there will be 10,000 fewer public employees. That is why I just want to ask the rapporteur quite simply today: how many fewer nurses out of the 10,000 will there be? How many fewer schoolteachers should there be? How many fewer educators should there be? How many sosu employees are there gonna be? Then we can put aside all the advertising budget and just relate to the figures that come from the Ministry of Finance, and when, among other things, we do. Says that you want to strengthen health care, so let us start with the nurses: how many fewer of them should there be up to 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004111524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004111526	We can easily put away the campaigns, and then we can start with some history writing. We can start with the story of then, sir. Nicolai Wammen was last in government and where there were 2,100 fewer educators and 2,700 fewer school teachers. That's how it was the last time the Social Democracy had the power of government. While this government has had government power, we have strengthened public spending by 5.7 billion. kr. We have also given more money to the municipalities. They've actually got 2.5 billion. kr. more precisely because we think the citizen-centred welfare is extremely important. More nurses and more doctors have been employed since 2001, in fact one every day except on Sundays. So when Mr. Nicolai Wammen is trying to draw some kind of fictional scenario of what it's gonna look like in the future. Nicolai Wammen relates to reality. And the reality is that this government has strengthened public spending by 5.7 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004111636	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004111638	It is always interesting to hear historical considerations from the Left, but I note that there was absolutely no relation to what I asked. I ask: what are the figures from the Ministry of Finance up to 2025? If the rapporteur does not want to go into this, we can take the answers that have come from the rapporteur's party colleague, the Finance Minister, the other day, who shows that there will be 1,000 fewer nurses up to 2025, that there will be 1,000 fewer primary school teachers, that there will be 1,000 fewer educators, and that there will also be between 500 and 1,000 fewer sosus. That is the reality, that is what the rapporteur has to do, and so I would just like to ask: how does it strengthen the Danish health service that there will be 1,000 fewer nurses up to 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004111740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004111742	Now, sir. Nicolai Wammen was in the Folketing for many years, actually quite many years more than I have, and therefore I am surprised that Mr. Nicolai Wammen doesn't know that what he has in his hand is a computational estimate. It's not government policy. For government policy we present in the Finance Act, in the Finance Act. We make politics when we make an economic agreement with the municipalities. When we provide the municipalities with more money for service, that is an expression of our policy. When we strengthen the health service by 5.5 billion. kr., which means that we can halve the treatment time on the waiting lists and that significantly more survive cancer, then it is an expression of our policy. Sir. Nicolai Wammen also knows that you can ask a question exactly what you want and get exactly the answer you want. Our policy is in the financial bill. Our policy is what we have been building on for the last three years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004111847	The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004111850	Thank you to Mrs Baker for her speech, and a receipt that we are making a proposal for adoption today, which is, of course, about temporary stay in Denmark for those from outside, who receive help here in Denmark, also becoming really temporary, and that we have to come to an understanding on this in the autumn. Can Mrs Britt Baker tell the Danish Parliament a little bit about how the Left might see the possibility of having it implemented, that is to say what tools can be grasped, to ensure that this temporary nature which has been very close to our hearts for several years, but which we now happily agree is a manifestation of common sense and actually becomes something in the real world?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004111937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004111939	Thank you for the question, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and thank you for the excellent cooperation we have had on foreign policy. We have managed to tighten it 98 times. We have the lowest number of asylum seekers in nine years. In 2017, only 3,500 asylum seekers came to Denmark, and that was because we have tightened up together and together we have pursued a realistic, tough and consistent immigration policy, and we must also do so in the future. As we have written in our joint adoption text today, it is reasonable that a temporary stay is practically only temporary. As soon as there is tranquillity on the home front, in the home country, you have to go back and help build your country. For us, it is also important to be self-supporting to a much greater extent than is the case today. 36 billion kr. kr. We have a duty to be able to do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112047	Yes, I fully agree with that, and it was good to have these things fleshed out. Then we say that we are now sticking to the line laid down and keeping an asylum figure at the absolute minimum for the sake of Denmark's future. Then some people have come to Denmark that we agree should have help in Denmark, but only temporarily. You have both a moral and a real duty to return when you can to help rebuild your country. We have then proposed this with the Igu, that is to say this with a link to the labour market, with the right to benefit and so on, and whether it is reasonable to have it if you are going to go back and rebuild your country. There we have seen that the government is a little reluctant to just smoke out and back us up in those views. Then we just ask ourselves what other tools we can imagine we can obtain in order to make temporary temporary arrangements in practice as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112141	I can clearly say that we share that ambition with the Danish People's Party. When it comes to the Igu, it is no secret that our policy is going on two legs: Denmark for those who can and will, and it also means that we think that the refugees who are in Denmark must go out and become part of the working community. They must learn the Danish language, they must learn about the Danish culture, and they must become part of the working community and become self-supporting. There we just have different approaches to it. But that does not change the fact that we have strengthened Denmark together, that we have tightened our foreign policy together, and then we have to sit together in the autumn and find a solution to what we can do to ensure that we move forward, to ensure that this temporary nature is only temporary and that we keep up with and act when it requires action.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112236	The next question is Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112240	Thank you. I am really glad to have the floor, because I actually think that Mrs Britt Baker was treated a little unfairly by the Socialists just now. It is true, as Mrs Britt Baker says, that the government must be measured by what it has done over the last three years, and it is also quite right, as Mrs Britt Baker says, that a doctor has been employed a day, except on Sundays. That's what's the big battle number. That's right, too. What Mrs Britt Baker may then forget is that sosus, nurses and medical secretaries have been fired, so when you put it together, four additional employees have been added to the total. Not in one hospital, but four in total throughout the country. And when you compare to the 50,000 extra patients, what you're really proud of maybe starts to fade a little bit. Then try again, Mrs. Britt Baker! Does the Left think this government has strengthened our health services, has this government sent more hands, more than four pairs, into our health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112412	I will insist that public consumption has increased by 5.7 billion. kr. Mrs. Pernille Skipper will get more answers. I have one minute, as far as I know. Health care has been strengthened by 5.5 billion. We have given more money to the regions, and then I am not here at national level interfering in how the regions will spend that money. I am just wondering a little bit about the logic that Mrs Pernille Skipper is using here. There have been 60,000 more patients who have become fewer doctors. Could Mrs Pernille Skipper then answer me how it might be that we have been able to halve the time on waiting lists? Can't Mrs. Pernille Skipper answer me that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112458	I can do that. That's because the employees are running really fast. That's what they say all the time. They run really, really fast, they run too fast, they run so fast that mistakes are made, they run so fast that they cannot provide patients and relatives with proper information. They run so fast that patients must lie on the halls. So I can explain why things are still connected in the Danish healthcare system, and that is because some employees are working hard. Mrs Britt Baker says that they have sent money to the regions, and Mrs Britt Baker does not want to interfere in how it is distributed, but Mrs Britt Baker wants to boast about how many doctors have been employed for that money, and then Mrs Britt Baker has to deal with how many nurses have been fired, how many sosus have been fired, how many medical secretaries have been fired and that there are no extra hands. Can't Mrs Britt Baker admit that there are no extra hands? There are several patients, but there are no extra hands in the hospital.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112554	I'm not actually bragging. I am simply telling you about the policy of the government, and it is factually correct that there are kr. to health care. That's factually correct. And to the picture that Mrs Pernille Skipper is trying to draw here with patients on the corridors and staff who cannot keep up, I would say that frankly, I think that Mrs Pernille Skipper should move a little more out in reality. A little more. Because that is simply not the Denmark I know. It's not the health care I'm in, because it's going really, really well. The quality of the treatment is getting higher, we are entitled to have Europe's third best health care. It is not the black hole that Mrs Pernille Skipper is trying to draw up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112641	The next question is Mr. Uffe Elbæk from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112646	Thanks for the speech. I would like to start by commending the government for the initiative the government made on electric cars. I would really like to stress that we in the alternative are very, very positive about this. On the other hand, I would also like to ask what the Left's position on agriculture is when we talk about climate change. We know that there will soon be a climate change initiative on the part of the government, and perhaps there is something about agriculture. However, my question to the rapporteur is: how does the role of the Left view agriculture when we talk about climate change? How do we ensure that we have a progressive climate policy when it comes to converting agriculture into sustainable agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112739	If I have to start by putting a few words on what the Prime Minister announced about electric cars, then I would say that when we come up with such an ambitious target, it is of course because it is important that we keep looking forward. It is important that we also dare to think forward to 2030. It is important that it is not only in the field of energy, where we have reached a broad and good agreement before the summer recess, that we are ambitious, but that we are also ambitious in the area of climate change. This will also be reflected in the initiative taken by the government in a very short space of time. That's what Mr. Uffe Elbæk is also well aware of the specific aspects of what is going to happen to agriculture. But I can say in general terms that we are concerned about agriculture. We are concerned both with ensuring that agriculture can exist in Denmark, that there are proper framework conditions, but also, of course, that we take the environment into consideration. That is also why, with a pool of money, we have been able to ensure that the equivalent of 150 football fields has been converted from conventional agriculture to ecology. Because we know that there is a need for us to think that way too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112847	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112851	I'm not gonna give the government any advice, but I'm gonna do it anyway. I hope that the government is as ambitious when it comes to agricultural conversion as the government was when they set the 2030 targets for electric cars. My second question, of course, follows on from the first one. We know that the meat industry, which of course has a relation to agriculture, is one of the most CO2 so my question is: is the Left ready to say that we must eat less meat in order to achieve the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement? Everyone says that we will have to eat less meat if we are to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004112940	I think it is important for each consumer to do what he wants to do in relation to what he eats. I also think it is important that we, as a society, inform about what meat does to the climate. But I am not a member of a party that legislates on what people should eat. I'm not. I am in favour of allocating money to research, but I am not in favour of regulating what people should eat, although I am well aware that meat production emits more CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113014	The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113019	I think that Mrs Britt Baker is doing well and everything is going fantastic, it is peace and happiness. And it's just after that, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was on the platform and, as the government's support party announced, the government was to resign after the next elections. Well, it can hardly go any better than that, oh, we're having a good time. At least now it's going out there. Well, it could be funny if it wasn't just because mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl on the same occasion once again made a great virtue of having prevented the government from pursuing the economic policy it believes is right for Denmark. Today, too, the nail mat has been rolled out and said that when it comes to the recent attempt to conduct a responsible economic policy, namely to recruit foreign labour, neither will one help. That is why the question is really just for Mrs Britt Baker: is it for the Left that it is more important for the Prime Minister to be called Lars Løkke Rasmussen than for the government to pursue an economic policy that is in line with what it thinks it needs?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113124	I absolutely believe that the government is pursuing an economic policy that is in line with what we in the Left want. We have pursued a two-legged policy in the time we have sat in government. We have invested massively in the welfare society, in other words in the areas we chose to strengthen, which we think is important: health, the elderly, the children, while at the same time reducing taxes and taxes. After all, we have done so because we are convinced that growth in private companies must be achieved in order for prosperity and prosperity to be provided. And I think we have succeeded in that policy. There is nothing inside my belly that knots when I talk about our economic policy, on the contrary. I am proud that during this reign we have invested heavily in the areas we promised, while at the same time having a very good economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113220	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113223	This is bad news for all those at the country's educational institutions, who must then look forward to that if the government continues or is being replaced with the Danish People's Party or how it is then massive savings on education will continue, because one cannot increase the room for manoeuvre with e.g. foreign labour. That is something we are pleased with, and there are no knots in Mrs Britt Baker's stomach. That is why I would like to ask: what about international students? Does it also give no knots in the stomach, since the government is so determined to intervene with regard to the educational institutions' ability to be part of internationalisation, and when you go in and tell the universities that besides having to cope with less money, they must no longer attract foreign students who would like to come to Denmark and contribute to the international study environment and perhaps even contribute to the Danish society if they are stuck behind? Is it also just something that is lovely and that one can look forward to for an infinite number of years if the Left continues?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113327	There were a lot of things in it, sir. Morten Østergaard asked about this. So, I know that the Danish People's Party has no desire to save in the field of education, in the vocational schools. I just sensed that on the question that Mr. Morten Østergaard asked. It is not something that I have noticed that the Danish People's Party has any plans for "Now" one should not say too much here before the financial law negotiations • so that Dansk Folkeparti will make a wish that we should not strengthen the vocational schools. I have no idea. When we have played out to strengthen vocational schools, it is because, as I said in my speech, it is important that we have wise hands. It is important that in Denmark we also have sosu assistants, have people to expand in stores, have craftsmen who can come and repair our house. It's extremely important. There is demand for it, and that is why we have come up with a very ambitious vocational school proposal for 2.1 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113424	The next question is Mr. Serdal Benli, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113426	Thank you. After all, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has announced that for the third consecutive year Denmark must refuse to take responsibility for some of the world's weakest refugees, namely the United Nations quota refugees. Denmark has historically taken modest 500 of them a year as part of our basic international responsibility. The Minister once again justified his decision by the need for a breathing space, because the influx to Denmark has been so great that we cannot even help the 500 refugees who need it most. However, at the beginning of the year, the Minister boasted that the number of asylum seekers who came to Denmark in 2017 was the lowest in 9 years, as the rapporteur also said earlier. So, what's the point? Why does the Left not think that we can take our share of international responsibility and do as any other country with which we compare ourselves, namely take quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113534	There are two things to say here: we are not bragging about anything. In fact, we argue that in 2017 there were 3,500 asylum seekers. We're proud of that. We are, of course, proud of this because we have tightened the immigration policy 98 times in order to correct the mistakes made by the previous government, where it just fell across the borders with refugees. So I am firmly committed to the objectives of the immigration policy that we have pursued so far. If we do not then open up to quota refugees, it is because we still have a challenge to solve in terms of integration. We are far from achieving the goal of integrating the refugees who are in Denmark. Although employment has risen, although we now have refugees who have started on an Igu and are likely to have easier access to the labour market, there are major problems in parts of Denmark. We need to resolve this before we start opening up to more refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113634	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113638	The Left therefore believes that we will not be able to integrate the lowest number of refugees for nine years if we accept a further 500 quota refugees. Then the question is where does the Left get that impression? Does the Left therefore disagree with its own mayors when they say that the refugee situation is now so under control that the municipalities can manage to receive quota refugees again? In other words, those who are actually responsible for integration in the municipalities say that it was nice to have a breathing space, but now they are actually ready again. Why not listen to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113717	It's not the 3,500 that make it all up here. It is also the sins of the past; that is all that happened earlier. It is all the refugees who came here earlier, and that is because integration has not been addressed in the past. So it's not the 3,500 that make it all up. But then I would also like to reassure the rapporteur and say that if at some point we sort this out better integrate the refugees who are here, we will of course look at quota refugees, but it will not be right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113752	The next one is sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113755	I am glad that health professionals in Denmark have not had time to follow Mrs Britt Baker's answer here from the parliamentary platform when Mrs Britt Baker interprets the health care situation as she does. The reason why health professionals do not have time to keep up is, of course, that they are running around at the moment in order to achieve everything. When Mr. Nicolai Wammen and Mrs Pernille Skipper are asking about the government's own policy, the economic policy underlying the 2025 plans, so Mrs Britt Baker is a little out of the question. I really think we should just follow up on the question that Mr. Nicolai Wammen used to make a reference to the calculation made by the Ministry of Finance. This calculation shows that if you follow the demographic trait, there will be a technical increase in the number of employees in the public sector, and if you follow the government's economic policy, there will be a technical calculation of approx. 10,000 fewer employees in the public sector. If Mrs Britt Baker can confirm that you follow the demographic trend, there will be more, and if you follow the government's economic policy, there will be about. 10,000 fewer?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004113922	To the answer I gave to Mr. Nicolai Wammen: I am surprised that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht has not actually taken the trouble to read that answer, because the answer says that this answer is not an expression of government policy. It's a technical calculation. The government's policy is reflected in our financial bill, where we strengthen the core welfare and where Mr. Benny Engelbrecht's own party has been out to say this looks like an election document. 5.7 billion kr. is what is more in public consumption than there was in 2015. 5.5 billion. kr. is what we have strengthened health care with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114002	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114005	I would like to ask you about the calculation technical answer given by the answer. I am not asking Mrs Britt Baker about all sorts of other things. I'm asking you about this answer that I've read. Listen to me! It's pretty simple. I myself have asked the question, and it is simply to answer it: is it true that, if you are based on the government's own basic economic policy, there will be fewer employees in purely computational terms? I understand that Mrs Britt Baker does not think it appropriate to answer that question. But is it not fair to the health care professionals who are out there working hard, so the sweat jumps that you are not standing on the parliamentary platform laughing silly, but actually give a firm commitment that we in the Folketing want our health workers to have proper working conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114052	Even though Mr. Benny Engelbrecht seems to have both asked a question and read this answer, I would just like to quote from the answer: this is not an assessment of the impact of the government's economic policy on the number of public employees. Well, it's clear what it says. Well, that's clear and clear. The fact here is that health care has been strengthened year by year. That is our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114120	The next question is Mr. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114122	Thank you for that, President. I would like to ask a little about retirement age, also called retirement age. We have made a broad agreement, which means that, for example, if you do not want to do so, you will have to do so. As Mrs Britt Baker was born in 1976 I understand that you can get your retirement pension when you are 71 or 72 years old. Nevertheless, I understand that the government is still maintaining its proposal that it wants to further reduce the retirement age. Really?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114200	At any rate, I would like to start by signing for the good research that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht has made, because it is quite true that I am from 1976 and I think the retirement age is also correct. It is not a secret that we played out with a deal other than the one we have landed on, compared to the retirement age, but now we have come up with a really, really good agreement, an agreement where more seniors can stay on the labour market if they want, if their body is able to do so, and where we have knitted together some arrangements that make it possible to get an early retirement pension or a senior early retirement pension if health is not possible for you to be several years on the labour market. We are very pleased with that agreement and we stand by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114245	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114247	Now that's not what I asked, and by the way, my name is Morten Bødskov and not Benny Engelbrecht, but it's okay. So, in order to get the rapporteur on the right track, I would like to say that it is Mr. Morten Bødskov, who asks and asks a question to which he would like an answer. Shall we try it? Is it true that the Left still wants to reduce the retirement age, in other words raise the pensionable age? The reason I am asking is that the Minister for Finance, who is now looking at this questioning, has actually been out saying that the government has still looked away at retirement age. It is not far off for the Left and the government to propose, for example, that the phasing-in of the agreement that has been made should be brought forward. That is why it is a very natural question: does the Left want the government to further reduce the retirement age? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114352	I'm sorry I got to confuse you, but you guys look a little alike; you're also wearing almost the same suit today. You're gonna have to discuss for yourself who it's a compliment to. What is true, I would like to say to Mr. Morten Bødskov, is that we have no plans to change that pension agreement. We stand by the voluntary withdrawal agreement, which we think is a very good agreement, both for Denmark and for the hardworking Danes who are out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114429	Then we turn to another questioner who can hardly be confused with the previous ones, namely Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114443	Thank you. At the end of the debate in May, I asked the rapporteur whether the regions had fulfilled their responsibilities, since the Left had previously stated that they had made this parliamentary term prove their worth and whether the Left would abolish the regions. There was the rapporteur's reply that the Left had no current intention of doing so. That is why I ask the rapporteur now: when you read the Prime Minister's speech and also heard it the other day, you can see that the Prime Minister says that there must be 21 new health communities in the future to bridge the gap between the hospital, the municipality and the general practitioner. Does this not really mean that the regions will be put to death after a parliamentary election if the government is still in power?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114524	But a great deal has happened since the end of the debate and then now. There's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... We have had a major discussion about whether the regions have actually delivered, both at processing time and also at quality. We believe we have a responsibility to look into the systems that exist and challenge them to challenge the way our society is built. That is what we have done, and that is why the Prime Minister has set up a committee which is working on how the health services of the future should be organized. But I am actually much more concerned with what kind of treatment is being given out there. I am concerned that we can give good cancer treatment, that there is a greater chance of surviving cancer. I am concerned that we continue to reduce waiting lists. That is what I am concerned about, and if that means that the regions are not the right ones to shoulder that responsibility, then that must be the case. But I am not going to conclude on that today, and I am not doing so out of respect for the work we have started in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114626	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114630	I didn't expect you to get a clear answer to that either. Then I'd like to hear about something else. Because when the rapporteur speaks and mentions a lot of things in his rapporteur's speech, it sounds very rosy. And when we talk about health care, it turns out that sick people are still away in the halls. Fire guards sit around the halls, and in the psychiatry it lags tremendously. Many have probably seen the documentary about the dangerous insanity in which relatives report that aid is only too late. That is why the rapporteur can tell us what the Left is going to do about the number of beds in the psychiatry. Does the rapporteur consider that the funds allocated are sufficient? There are so many things that need to be corrected that the rapporteur does not mention in his rapporteur's speech, but does not talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114726	I do not know whether I am talking about it or whether I am talking about it and highlighting what I think is most important, because I only have 10 minutes in my speech. And I think psychiatry is very important. I think it is so important that we have far more equal physical and mental illnesses. That is also what we are proposing. That is why we have come up with a psychic triad game where 2.1 billion are being allocated. kr. to improve this area. Overall, we will take action in three places: firstly, against the young vulnerable people who walk and have pain in the soul but who do not have a diagnosis. They need much more help. We need to know those signals much earlier as a society. Secondly, those who have a minor diagnosis must be able to receive the help they need much earlier. Thirdly, those who are really ill, who have a really serious diagnosis and who go in and out of hospitals must be taken seriously. They must stay in that hospital until they are healthy, instead of smoking back and forth between the municipality and the region.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114833	The next question is Mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114841	Thank you. I think that Mrs Britt Baker replied a little differently from what Mrs Britt Baker's party colleague, the Minister for Finance, said in an interview with the Berlingske Tidende here on 13 September when it comes to the question of retirement age. It has been the policy of the Left and it has been put forward here in a very necessary overall plan at the time, we had to understand that one wants to increase the retirement age in Denmark more quickly, while at the same time there are very many people who have difficulty in keeping to working life just as it is now. In fact, I would just like to ask Mrs Britt Baker to answer whether it is correct and that it is actually the policy of the Left to increase the retirement age earlier than has actually been agreed, and that this is also what the Minister of Finance says in the interview he gave to the Berlingske Tidende in September.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114938	I understand if it's unfamiliar to sir. Jesper Petersen, that you stand by what you agree to and stand by your promises. But in the Left we stand by our promises. We stand by the withdrawal agreement we have made. That means there won't be a new deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114953	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004114957	But listen to me: there was an agreement on how the retirement age should develop when the Left then came up with the proposal to increase it further. So it is no problem for the Left to propose new increases in retirement age, we must understand. This has been done several times. The agreement that is then made is actually about some other things. After all, the Left still has the opportunity to propose an increase in the retirement age in order to finance the many reliefs from the tax that one would like to have. You just put it with it now that there will soon be parliamentary elections, because you know that you actually have a huge problem with people who are already unable to cope with working life and who do not offer any solutions. Nevertheless, we are ready to increase the retirement age more. Is it not the policy of the Left to increase the retirement age more and more quickly than what has been agreed now if one could decide for oneself, according to the interview with the Finance Minister in the Berlingske Tidende?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115049	Well, we have a lot of options, and it's really nice. But that does not change the fact that we stand by the agreement we have made. We are firmly committed to the agreement we have made, and we are very pleased with the agreement we then made in relation to voluntary withdrawal. I think it is great to see all the seniors who are out on the labour market, all the seniors who have the body to be longer in the labour market. So that voluntary agreement was a really, really good deal, and we stand by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115120	Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115125	Thank you very much. A political issue that should be above all others right now is the issue of climate, which, if we do not resolve it, is that much else can be quite irrelevant. If Denmark is to live up to its climate commitments, we will not avoid doing something about agriculture and we will not escape the fact that the number of animals, our animal production, must be reduced. That is where I get a little worried about the Left, because the Left is known for a very, very, very close relationship with industrial agriculture, and it is known that consideration of this relationship is often put in front of consideration for wider social conditions, for citizens, so we saw it during the manure scandal, and we have seen it many times. I hope that will not be the case this time, because it is such a crucial issue. That is why my question to the rapporteur is actually: does the rapporteur agree that if Denmark is to meet the commitments we have to reduce our emissions, then we will not avoid reducing the number of dairy and meat cattle in Denmark, reducing animal production in Denmark, in the decade to come?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115244	Thank you for your question, and also thank you to Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted and Enhedslisten to help ensure an ambitious energy reconciliation, which we landed before the summer holidays. It is nice when, as a government, you can succeed in bringing together all the parties of the Folketing to make Denmark greener. So I hope that Mr. Pelle Dragsted and Enhedslisten will enter the upcoming climate negotiations with the same realism and the same positive approach to leading Denmark in a greener direction. I share the ambition, that's for sure. I absolutely share the ambition that we should remain in the green jersey. I don't think that's surprising either, sir. Pelle Dragsted that I can't stand here revealing what's coming in our upcoming climate action. I understand that it is very exciting, it is just on the way, it will come, you will be invited to negotiations, and then I hope that we will be able to come up with an agreement that is as ambitious as the one we landed in the energy field before the summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115341	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115343	After all, I did not ask about the specific climate change issue either; I asked about political recognition or scientific recognition that if we are to achieve our objectives, we need to reduce the number of animals in Danish agriculture over the years to come. About 20%. of our total emissions come from agriculture, and everyone who is experts in this area says that if we are to achieve in line with the reductions we have set, we need to reduce animal production in Danish agriculture. I just didn't hear anything about agriculture in the Prime Minister's opening speech in relation to climate, and that's why I'm a little worried about the history of the Left and perhaps too close relationships with the top of agriculture... if you really take this seriously and want to take the steps that need to be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115433	I'm concerned about leaving an even better society for my son than what I was born in. This is true when it comes to the welfare state, but it also applies to our nature and our climate. But when I do not mention anything specific about agriculture, it is because Mr. Pelle Dragsted is also well placed to deal with the issues of agriculture in the climate scenario. And I'm not going to stand up here on Parliament's platform and reveal what's in our climate play that's coming in a few weeks. We are concerned that agriculture must be climate-efficient. The agriculture we have today is also one of the most climate-efficient in the world. We must continue that course, and that course will also be reflected in our climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115519	The last question in this round will be Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115528	Perhaps the Prime Minister is not in control of the figures about the vocational schools, or perhaps it is an expression of such a normal practice, then the attitude of the Prime Minister goes on. I'm not gonna be able to say that. But I note that, in connection with the vocational school initiative, the Prime Minister said that it will end in a plus. Now it turns out to be completely wrong. And I would like the rapporteur to confirm that it is the case that until 2022 vocational schools will have to save more money than the number of crowns they receive, so that they end up with a big minus. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115611	The rapporteur cannot confirm this. The proposal we are making is a multi-billion-dollar proposal. We do this because we want to strengthen vocational schools. We do that because we know there's a need to recruit smart heads. And the re-priority contribution that has been made to vocational schools is less than the result of the proposal we are making. So this doesn't go negative. This is going to be plus.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115639	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115643	It is clear from the media today that if you have to take the figures in such a concrete way that there is a small plus of 45 million. kr. the first year. But then it sounds like minus 90 million. kr., minus 223 million. kr. And then minus DKK 350 million. I don't really think it's particularly hard to understand. Well, I understand that I can't get a confirmation that the numbers look like that, despite the fact that with plus and minus it is not particularly advanced mathematics. I would like to ask the rapporteur: if it were to turn out that these figures are correct, would it be possible for the Left to actually take the view in principle that, of course, we should stop for this minus the next 1 January? Well, let's put the numbers war aside. If it turns out that it is true what we are saying, namely that there is a total minus, is the Left of the opinion that vocational schools are so important for Denmark that they immediately stop the erosion of vocational schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115744	In fact, I did not think that the Socialists were concerned with figures either, because that is what Mrs Frederiksen said. And that is also very good in addition to the proposals you have made, because there are also missing numbers. You're preoccupied with time, not numbers. But if we are to deal with the figures, there are 2 billion. kr. More to the vocational schools than there was before we made this proposal. That's 2 billion. kr. more to strengthen vocational schools, to ensure that we grab young people when they go to primary school, so that they become aware that there are very good opportunities for obtaining vocational education. And I understand that Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil thinks that it is a little problematic that we have actually delivered in all the areas in which we went to the polls. We have, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004115827	There are several questioners on the list, but unfortunately the 45 minutes have passed, so I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Britt Baker. Now I'm suspending the meeting until 8:00. 13.00 for lunch break.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004130003	The sitting is resumed. We will continue the debate on the Prime Minister's statement to the Danish Parliament in accordance with section 38 of the Constitution. In the series of rapporteurs we have reached Mrs Pernille Skipper as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004130025	And as usual to a full hall, I see. It's always good. The honourable Members of the Danish Parliament know about the fact that you have a family member who is just brilliant when you sit there at the family parties, i.e. one of those people who, when you've been sitting and listening for a whole night, think that it's almost a wonder that Bill Gates hasn't been there with some million contracts and delivered an offer that wasn't to be refused. At least there is one of these in my family, and without mentioning names, I would say that after Tuesday I can also guess who has that role in the Løkke-Rasmussen clan. The Prime Minister used much of his speech to commend himself on Tuesday. All the potential medal harvesters were listed. It was the unemployment benefit reform, it was the pre-retirement reform, it was an increase in retirement age, and it was, I think, various cash benefits reforms, and then the Prime Minister concluded by concluding: that is actually quite good. Then what I'm thinking is: Hm, perhaps that praise would have been a little more attractive if it had come from some of the people who have actually been affected by that policy, because I think that the thousands of people who are living in poverty today, as a result of all the reforms that the Prime Minister listed, may think that the talent is missing. I also believe that all the employees of our welfare system who run around, and all of us who use welfare and need proper nursing homes for our parents and grandparents who need proper schools, proper kindergartens in which we can deliver our children safely, think that it might be just as tame enough when the Prime Minister praises his own great efforts for community and equality in Denmark. That was also part of the speech by God helping me. I am actually more interested in what all those people think of the policy being pursued than the detached figures and ads that have been strewn around in Denmark and also from the speaking chair of the Folketing as recently as today. One should not move one's nose very many centimeters outside Christiansborg to see and know that reality is another. All those who go to work every day and pay their taxes, all those who pick up their children in kindergarten, hand them over in primary school, all those who have parents in a nursing home or live there even after a long life and need care and support, are, like all the time, moved around in the back of the queue because there is just some rich heir who needs a tax discount first. Reform on reform has been implemented and has made it a potential life-changing event to become ill, for example. to get a work injury. Karina, who is a cleaning assistant... she has been a cleaning assistant for 13 years in the same place... gets a work injury in her shoulder, and after a longer period with the municipality they take her sickness benefit from her and declare her ready for ordinary work as long as she doesn't work with the shoulder or raises her arm above the horizontal. She's a cleaning assistant! Who imagines that it should in any way be possible to work as a cleaning assistant without raising the arm above the horizontal or working with the shoulder. When Karina wrote to me, she also wrote that it has now been four years, and it has not improved. She cannot get public help, either to get better or to receive financial support. She's in pain, she can't sleep, she's crying a lot, and she's worried about her family and her future. The life Karina is now living is a direct consequence of the policy pursued by a majority in here. Unfortunately, she is not alone either, and frankly it should not be Karina who had trouble sleeping at night. It should be all those inside this hall who have created the situation she's in. The insecurity of ordinary people in our country has grown enormously. I must also say that it is still incredibly safe to run a bank, no matter how bad you are at it. Danske Bank has been part of the billion-dollar money laundering case for the Russian mafia, oligarchs related to Putin, North Korean arms smugglers, and this is not the first time that Danske Bank has got us all in trouble. When the crisis hit back in 2007-08, the state also had to step in and rescue a certain body part of the bank. It had simply become too playful and risky because there was money to be made, and the reason why we had to go in and save it was not least that the bank had grown so large that if it went down, we all went down with it, and since then it has multiplied in size. It's like the Titanic without a single life jacket, and we're all just on board at once, and that's why the political afterplay shouldn't end now either. We must start to divide up the big banks, we must discuss whether there should simply be a ceiling on how big a bank can be, and then we must set up a community bank, a public bank that can provide loans to ordinary people, low green investment, sustainable investment and ensure that the profits actually benefit customers and the community. After all, no one voted for the banks, we should remember. They are not democratically elected, and therefore the banks should not regulate Danish society simply because they have become too big. No, we have to regulate the banks in here. While the outgoing director of Danske Bank has received a golden handshake of at least 13 million. kr., then several folk pensioners experience real poverty in Denmark. As many as 300 000 pensioners have only the retirement pension, and thus they also have a very fragile economy. Meanwhile, there are also fewer hands in the care of the elderly, the folk pension is slowly eroded. It is safe to be Danske Bank, but it is not quite as safe to grow old. Therefore, I would also like to tell you about Susanne, aged 63, who wrote to me recently. She has worked as a educator all her life, but she was fired 3 years ago, and then she has had osteoarthritis after many years of hard physical work. Although she doesn't have the happiest of everyone in this country, she's been so lucky that she could go on early retirement. But for all the educators who are working hard for our children and our community right now, that opportunity will be gone in just a few years. In fact, the educators who are about my age have the prospect of having to be 10 years more in the labour market than Susanne has been, and that is not because it has become less grueling to be an educator; it is simply because the majority in this House have decided that the retirement age should rise and rise. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl did a rather big trick last year, it has to be said, out of the fact that they took an extra retirement age increase off the table. It has also been mentioned many times today, and we have not even been sitting here for many hours. They got through the fact that the retirement age does not increase more than has already been agreed and, as with the Prime Minister on Tuesday, there has been a tendency for severe satisfaction with their own efforts. But the truth is that both the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats will again vote for the retirement age to rise in full years for the unskilled, for the bricklayer, for the sosu assistant, and for them there is absolutely no reason to be satisfied. There was a time when the pursuit of growth was about securing resources to raise the standard of living, raising the security of the general population. It's changed. Now the argument has become that we need to cut back on security in order to ensure growth. At the same time, we are facing a huge climate crisis in which it is clear that precisely the pursuit of growth and the pollution that comes with it directly undermine the living conditions and safety of ordinary people. So there is simply someone who has lost focus on the purpose in here. None of those affected by the reforms announced by the Prime Minister on Tuesday have felt better. The security of all of us has also deteriorated. So what's the point? I think that the Danish welfare community really can do something if we want to. The basic idea holds up. It is also possible to build the strong welfare society while we take good care of the climate and ensure proper integration. These are not at all contradictions, but it requires those who have the most to start contributing more to the Community, and then it requires us in here to start taking decisions that do not always take account of the small group at the top, but that we pursue a policy that actually benefits the majority, the ordinary population.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131034	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. And then there is the possibility of asking questions. I have a number on the list, and the first one to ask for the floor is Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131043	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper for her speech. I was really trying to listen to you, because since then, Mrs. Pernille Skipper has become Prime Minister's candidate. And that's why you have to look at what's gonna happen if Mrs. Pernille Skipper gets... doesn't the microphone work? Can't somebody hear what I'm saying? I'm really sorry about that. I thought I said some smart things. Try again). Hello, hello! That's better. I just have to kneel down here. You might as well get used to it). I hope that, with the permission of the President, I may spend some extra time. Extra seconds are allocated to start over). Prime Minister's candidate, Mrs. Pernille Skipper, is also full of humor. Thank you. I listened very carefully, because, since the last time we were here, it has to be said that Mrs Pernille Skipper is now a prime minister candidate. And then I have actually been thinking about whether Mrs Pernille Skipper and Enhedslisten are going through a development right now, when it becomes so important to get into a new government, and perhaps even sit in the driver's seat, that you are ready to skip a lot of previous political sticks. And the reason I got the idea was that I looked up on Enhedslisten's website, and there you have such educationally made such questions-answers that can make us smarter on what Enhedslisten is thinking. And one of the questions is about immigration policy, and then the Enhedslisten answers, and I quote: 'But we will not escape the fact that there is currently a majority in favour of strict immigration policy. That policy will be pursued if Løkke is allowed to continue, and yes, even if we could force ourselves into government, then we would be forced to pursue a strict immigration policy. I mean, I think that's fantastic. Does this mean that Enhedslisten has come to terms with the fact that because there is a majority here in the Danish Parliament today who wants a strict immigration policy, one is willing to sit down in government seats and continue the tight immigration policy? I would almost say that there was once a trade unionist who said something about victorious ad h till now I am not going to say the full quote. But I would like to say to Mr. Peter Skaarup, that's when we start to be well on our way. Well, that would be an innovation in Danish politics. It's on Enhedslisten's website. I've been looking it up right now. So what is behind the analysis that makes it possible to arrive at a willingness to pursue the tight immigration policy, even with the Enhedslisten in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131309	I'm so fond of Mr. Simpson. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's question, which is always filled with wonder about Enhedslisten's policy. And that curiosity, I'd just love to sign for; it's so nice. And that is why, of course, I would like to explain quite clearly that the quotation that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentions • if I remember correctly • is part of such a longer series of questions-answers, and precisely as an argument that one should of course not go into government at all costs. But I can promise you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that Enhedslisten will not sit and implement Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's foreign policy as part of a government, if that was it, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was waiting for a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131352	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131354	Now I don't understand anything, because it's on Enhedslisten's website, and I've looked it up right now on the device list.dk. It says: 'The Unity List is targeting a red-green government. And then you tell about a chronicle that Mrs. Pernille Skipper has written in a newspaper with others from the Enhedslisten, and just below that there are some questions-answers to guide readers, that is, the Danes, in what Enhedslisten is going for in relation to getting a new government. And when you go down to the last question-answer it's not many, it's only six, seven questions-answers, it's about • here's the thing about the tight immigration policy that will be conducted if Løkke is allowed to continue, and then it says: "And yes, even if we could force ourselves into government, then we would be forced to pursue a strict immigration policy. The Danes must then have some explanation: Is it what is written on the Enhedslisten's website during questions-answers that are applicable, or is that what Mrs Pernille Skipper is now saying, that is, that no, of course you will not pursue the strict immigration policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131453	I am simply sorry that I have to explain this to Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: You have to have a majority in favour of your policy. I'm a linguistic student, and that's why I'm not such a great mathematician. But I can count to 90, and unfortunately there are no 90 seats for Enhedslisten's immigration policy. Unfortunately, there is a majority in the Danish Parliament who insists that Denmark should not take its share of responsibility for people fleeing and will treat people who come from other countries but, for example, are born and raised here, worse than others. That is not the policy of Enhedslisten, and until we get a majority for something else, yes, it will be Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's policy. And I will do my part to ensure that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has as little influence as possible. That is why, of course, it is also the case that if you sit as a minority government, you have to do what a majority in the Danish Parliament says the end. But will the Enhedslisten? No, we don't want to sit at all costs and go through with it, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's policy also even if there may be others in here who will.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131602	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131605	Thank you. And thank you for a good speech. It's nice to have such a very clear, ideological speech from Mrs Pernille Skipper. I would actually like to ask a question in the same marvelous spirit as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's question. There is something that has really puzzled me for a long time about Enhedslisten policy, and that is the approach to the issue of foreign labour. The Enhedslisten is on the shoulders of a history of the workers' movement, international solidarity, solidarity across national borders, slogans saying: Workers, unite the rapporteur himself knows the story and therefore I wonder why one has so much resistance to foreigners being allowed to come to Denmark and take a job on proper pay and working conditions. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, what is really wrong with a welder from Brazil? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131657	I am sure that there are many brilliant welders in Brazil, and if there were to be a place there I do not know whether Mrs Christina Egelund is moving as much around on the unitary list.dk as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl makes Enhedslisten have a problem with welders from Brazil or foreign workers, who come here on proper pay and working conditions, so it is wrong. We think it is quite all right to come here if it is on proper pay and working conditions, and that is one of them. Therefore, we are fighting so hard for a social protocol in the European Union so that companies cannot exploit underpaid labour in other countries, which are forced by their circumstances of life to accept poor conditions, to also press for wage and working conditions for workers in Denmark. It is precisely international solidarity that we say no to companies having to use people from poor countries to print the conditions for Danish workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131757	Thank you. Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131759	In fact, I am quite happy about that answer, because if you are to take it at face value, it must mean that, in order to stay in the example of • welder from Brazil, you are welcome in Denmark, you can take a job, settle and live among us if you work on a collective wage. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131824	Is Mrs Christina Egelund referring to the limit on the amount? No, she doesn't. Yes, it is true that Enhedslisten thinks that there can be labour from other countries, but that it must be on Danish pay and working conditions that it must be on contractual terms, and we will then have to adapt our legislation to that, so that we can set the requirements for Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131850	Thank you. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131854	Thank you for your speech from Mrs Pernille Skipper. As Mrs Pernille Skipper knows, I have great respect for the social commitment of Enhedslisten. I had it yesterday, I have it today, and I want it tomorrow too. So only praise for what has been said so far. But where I am genuinely curious or where I simply do not understand the position of the Enhedslisten is in relation to Europe. Mrs Pernille Skipper herself said just now that we are working for a social protocol in the European Union and that it is important to ensure good working conditions for workers around Europe. But why is it that the Enhedslisten, if I have understood it correctly and that is why the question is so great a critic of European cooperation and basically wants, if I have understood it correctly again, that Denmark should resign from the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004131951	It is a misunderstanding that the Enhedslisten should be opposed to European cooperation. However, it is quite true that we are strong critics of the European Union, and these are two different things, I think. International cooperation cannot be avoided in the world in which we live in relation to climate change, refugee crises. Sir. Uffe Elbæk can even write about what we need from each other to solve across national borders. What is the problem with the European Union is that it is international cooperation which does not allow us to promote human rights, respect for the environment, respect for workers' rights. It is a basis of the Treaty which enables companies to consistently take into account the interests of employees, for example, and it is also, unfortunately, a cooperation which makes it impossible for Denmark to take the lead in a large number of areas. Sir. For example, Uffe Elbæk knows very well himself that we cannot ban dangerous chemistry in toys because the European Union has the legislation that the European Union has. That is our problem. It is not the cooperation itself; it is the construction and cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132101	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132102	The alternative is completely different from the Enhedslisten in this area, where we would rather work together with progressive forces in European cooperation. Take, for example, some parties to which the Enhedslisten normally refers as some, they work closely with and respect the fact that it is Podemos, or it is Syria, where, according to what I know about it at least, there is the view that you should not have more EU or less EU, but that you should have a better EU and that you should go in and ensure democratisation of European cooperation. And I really wonder how Enhedslisten stands side by side with Dansk Folkeparti. I know that it is with very different arguments, but both parties want Denmark to step out of European cooperation if it stands up as in this case • Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132158-2	We certainly have a very close cooperation with, for example, Podemos, with which we are also conducting a joint international election campaign towards the European Parliament elections, as we are doing with La France Insoumise, which is a major progressive party in France, the Swedes and so on. etc. What we have in common is precisely that we are very critical of the Treaty basis on which the European Union is founded and that we believe that it should change, or we must withdraw. This shows precisely the experience of Greece, where the Greek people chose a completely different government and a completely different policy, which could not be implemented despite the large majority, because the European Union kept the country in a state of deadlock. It is not just undemocratic, but it is also wrong and it is harmful to Greece. That is why there are a large number of our sister parties in the world who have actually agreed with Enhedslisten, and not vice versa. I really want to tell you a lot more, but I can't do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132254	That's right. And now it is Mrs Karen Ellemann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132258	Well, luckily the chance comes again here. I would really like to follow up on some of what Mrs Christina Egelund asked about in relation to the government's initiative and this also about attracting qualified foreign labour, which must also be seen in the context of the fact that at the same time one is very, very concerned about ensuring that Danes enter the labour market. I was very, very pleased with the answer given by Mrs Pernille Skipper, because it was, in fact, a commitment to support. My sideman ran away worriedly because he could see that I am beginning to count in mandates, compared with the fact that we might be able to make an alternative majority for exactly the game that lies. So I would actually like to ask the Enhedslisten, and thus one of the many prime minister candidates of the Red Block, to confirm that it is in fact in agreement with the government in relation to the proposal that the government has made for the attraction of foreign labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132350	No, I don't think that's gonna work. One of the major criticisms we have is the proposal to reduce the threshold. Because if you put it down to 27,000 kroner, for example. Then you open up to bus drivers and other unskilled or low-skilled people who can come here and get jobs, and of course we fear this will be used for wage pressure. If that is not what you want to attract the workforce, then there are plenty of idle hands here in Denmark. If it is highly specialised labour you want, then you can get all the manpower for it. You just have to pay a decent salary for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132439	However, there was a very clear question from Mrs Christina Egelund earlier in relation to talking about the Brazilian welder, i.e. the skilled labour force, which is so lacking around Danish jobs, and this should not be seen as a contradiction to ensuring that Danes also get well trained and enter the labour market. But it is also precisely the discussion that there is a need for additional labour, and it is the qualified person, and that is exactly a limit of DKK 27,000, and it is also by agreement and on contractual relationships. If Enhedslisten can agree with that, I find it very difficult to see that you cannot simply confirm it, so we are absolutely sure that we can at least count the mandates of Enhedslisten in that equation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132530	The problem is that it can be a contradiction. But it's easy to get a welder here. You just have to pay a decent salary for it. So if the companies are really lacking welders, then it is possible to give a job to those who come from other countries. You just have to pay a decent salary for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132548	Thank you. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132549	Radical Left and Enhedslisten share the criticism of the money laundering scandal at Danske Bank. That is why I would like to ask Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether we should not do what is working, namely to ensure that we join the European Banking Authority, which is after all those who want enough muscle to deal with such a matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132615	The question was about European banking supervision. I know that there has been a proposal from the Commission that would like to extend it. We have not yet taken a position on this, but we are, in fact, willing to do all kinds of international cooperation, including through the European Union, as long as it does not limit Denmark's ability to take the lead and introduce even stricter controls, if that is what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132644	Thank you. I think it is nice if Enhedslisten would like to join the banking union, because what I heard Enhedslisten's rapporteur say before was that you are immediately very concerned about getting Danske Bank split up. I believe that this will lead to their simply moving out of Denmark and thereby losing jobs. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132708	To the point that they want to move out of Denmark and that we will lose jobs: I think it is absolutely necessary that we start talking about the banks having to be split up, so that they have the ordinary banking system, the mortgage business for themselves and so on, otherwise the banks will be too large. Mrs Lotte Rod is welcome to make some alternative proposals on how we can ensure that this does not happen, but I think that the Radical Left as well as the Enhedslisten know that it is not sustainable that there are banks that are so large that the entire Danish society will be dragged down if they go down because they have made too risky investments. Then it may well be that Mrs Lotte Rod has a concern for some competitiveness, but frankly, I also think that the Radical Left knows that the problem is more serious than that. It could be the whole Danish economy if we do nothing to the banks.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132759	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132804	Thank you. The rapporteur spoke a little about taxation in his speech: that some were in the back of a queue because some others had to have a tax rebate. The 2012 Tax Agreement, in which the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Left and the Conservatives were included, raised the top tax limit. This means that 275,000 taxpayers no longer have to pay top tax. If a red government again proposes reliefs in the top tax, as happened last time in 2012, when Enhedslisten was a support party for a red government, will the Enhedslisten overthrow the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132852	That may well be the case, it may be. Well, there's no reason to hide that. I really hope that no one in here has overlooked the fact that the 2012 tax agreement was something that really gave way to the relationship between Enhedslisten and the then government, for which we really were parliamentary basis. Nor is there any doubt that this is one of the reasons why we have subsequently adopted a new parliamentary strategy in which we have said in advance to the Social Democratic Party: if one should sit and form a government on the seats of the Enhedslisten, there is a limit to what can be done with the right, that is, if one wants to continue to sit on the seats of the Enhedslisten. And a tax reform of a caliber like that in 2012 may well be something that means finding a different parliamentary basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132950	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004132951	Well, thank you for a very precise answer. The rapporteur also said a little that some people needed support. At one point, Enhedslisten says that the government kicks people who lie down • it was back in 2015 as a response to the government's cash relief ceiling. I would like to hear what Enhedslisten is saying that the Social Democratic Party will not promise to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits, but will have a benefit commission look into the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133035	I find that extremely poor of the Social Democrats they do not want to promise. In fact, I think every member of parliament from the Social Democratic Party is aware of this, so that all Enhedslisten's members of parliament think it is uncommonly poor, that one does not want to promise it, especially in view of the fact that one can promise the property owners security and tax relief, and that one can promise everything else. But just as for something that both affects a lot of people who are at risk, who are already having a real, really difficult time, and who have to deal with poverty, and hit the safety of all of us, you can't really promise anything, because uh, uh, you wouldn't want to do that. I think that is extremely poor, and I think that is something that is well known in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133122	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133126	Thank you, sir. President. If you look at the immigration policy that Enhedslisten is the guarantor of, and the one for which the Danish People's Party is the guarantor, then there is probably some kind of diversity. On asylum seekers and family members and others, the Enhedslisten believes that we must integrate and that we really should make them immigrants in Denmark. That is also what is happening, among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 3 of the four initiatives advocated by the Red Parties. Some of the examples we saw in Denmark include the fact that a great many of those who have come from Syria to Denmark choose to take the plane home on holiday either from Sturup in Sweden, or from Billund, where there is also a direct route to Lebanon, where there is a bus hired to take them home on holiday in Syria. This is something that is happening in quite a massive and increasing number. My question to Enhedslisten is in this respect: Does Enhedslisten think that you are genuinely persecuted when you get a residence permit in Denmark with the rights that come with in terms of finance and subsidies, and what do I know, and then choose to go home on holiday? For these are the ones that are really being held up in economic terms with the policy pursued by Enhedslisten towards foreigners? You give them a very good and favorable Igu education in Denmark, and then they choose to spend the money buying flights to travel home on holiday. Is that in line with Enhedslisten's policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133308	In fact, I would like to start by saying that I do not think that Igu training is particularly favourable. Well, you don't get paper on your education, for example, so I actually think we could do better. And why should we do better? Yes, because it is in the interests of all of us to ensure that people who come here from other countries, for example. refugees who all experience shows must stay here for very, very many years, get an education and learn Danish and know our society. And the very best way to do that is to get a foothold on the labour market. It's integration. If we do not do that, but do what the Danish People's Party wants, then we will have an underclass of people who cannot Danish, who have no education, who have no work, and in this way is an expense for society instead of an income. I have not heard specific stories about people travelling on holiday in Syria. I also do not know whether there are any areas where it is safe enough to be able to do so, so I would rather not reply to that when I have no knowledge of it, here from the platform. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133418	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach. No, it's Hans Kristian Skibby again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133422	Thank you. Well, I was actually asking about something that's a fact. Today there are tour operators who travel for resident family couples and Syrians with permanent residence permits, who then travel home on holiday via an airline located in Lebanon and who have arranged flight routes from Billund Airport. It is something that is widely known in Jutland, where I come from at least. I also believe that some of the Enhedslisten are aware of this. I just ask: are you persecuted if you are able to go home on holiday in the country from which you have fled? I asked that very frankly and clearly, and the rapporteur did not answer that question. Are you stalked when you go home on vacation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133512	I'm from Jutland, too, right? So calm down. If Hans Kristian Skibby asks me whether I believe that there is a need for protection for people who come from Syria who have fled from the Islamic State, who rape women, cut off people's heads, cut off the arms of people who commit terrorism and who, moreover, fight the Assad regime, which oppresses its own people, then yes, as a starting point. Then there is always an individual estimate whether you have a protection need or not. If you go back to your home country, it can be part of the consideration of a need for protection. However, as I said, I do not have an overview of whether there are a few areas in Syria where there are safe enough to do so. I haven't even heard of this general knowledge that the questioner has.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133609	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133611	Thank you. It's a good thing we just got the last part of sir. Hans Kristian Skibby's question is in place. I have a need to get something welded, I would say, in relation to Mrs Pernille Skipper's answer to Mrs Christina Egelund's question earlier where a welder from Brazil was asked. I would say that it does not necessarily have to be a welder from Brazil, it could also be one from Canada or from the United States or from Australia for that matter. But if the welder in question is employed on a Danish contract, is he or she welcome in Denmark according to Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133654-2	I simply do not know the agreement of the welders, but I know that the current limit is approximately DKK 34 000. I mean, everything included in the month... and I think that's really fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133708	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133710	I don't know if I'm going to consider that a clear answer, but let it go. It may be that there are others who want to follow it up further. In fact, there was something in Mrs Pernille Skipper's speech that made me think of the inheritance tax. Mrs Pernille Skipper had, I think, a comment about a rich heir who was going to have a tax rebate. And in the Liberal Alliance we want to abolish the inheritance tax, but I think the Social Democrats want to increase it. Therefore, I would like to ask Enhedslisten whether Enhedslisten actually thinks it is reasonable that Danes who have worked their whole lives and saved their entire lives should be plagued at their last hour, or at least right after their last hour, by further taxation of the savings that they had actually intended for their loved ones, their children and their families.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133801	I am very pleased that the questioner noticed that I was making a pill about the inheritance tax. That was on purpose. We also think it's really nice that if you inherit a lot of money, not some you've earned yourself, but some you've just been born to, you pay something that in tax to the community, just like people who go to work every day and work hard, pay part of it to the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133832	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133833	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I should like to ask Mrs Pernille Skipper about the proposal for adoption that we have been distributed and that Enhedslisten is part of. There are some sentences that I have to understand quite correctly, and that is really what this is all about. It says in the fourth paragraph: "Third, integration really promises so that more new Danes enter the labour market, including maintaining the IGU scheme. When I read it, I make it mean that these Igu people who are on that scheme are new Danes. Is it also Enhedslisten's view that this is what you mean by what you write, that it is new Danes who are on the Igu scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004133927	It may well be in time. Well, with all due respect, sir. Peter Skaarup and I know that we are being asked in the sweetest and most astonishing way, because it's exciting with the policy of Enhedslisten: I actually feel that when we know how long the war in Syria has lasted, we know that it has no prospect of ending, we also know that people who come here on the run and get refugee status, very, very rarely have the opportunity to return, because conditions very, very rarely change for the better, then it is no use for us to shove people into camps. It is both inhumane and not fair; it is not right for the children they have to grow up here; and it is also bad for all of us, because we do not need a new subclass of people who do not know the Danish language and do not know our society. We need them to join the community. The Danish People's Party should, if any, like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134030	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134032	One thing is that this Igu scheme favours refugees rather than Danes, because they offer daily allowances without having paid into the scheme for many years that Danes are going to have to do, and we in the Danish People's Party are extremely puzzled because they have allowed something else to be called people who are going into this scheme, which has been defined among other things. as refugees who have come to Denmark in recent years, for new Danes. Well, I guess I actually think everything's gonna stop. Because the idea, which I have heard from both the Social Democrats and the Left here today, is that temporaryness is temporary, which means that if you come as a refugee, you have to return to your home country. Then you're not a new Dane. What the House could hopefully spend some time on in the autumn is to make sure that it is But shall I understand the proposal for adoption that has been put forward and that Enhedslisten is part of, so that one also sees the Social Democracy as a party that has now signed that it is new Danes that we are getting into via the Igu scheme? Because then I think that agreement goes a little further than I expected.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134148	I don't know if sir. Peter Skaarup missed his question to the Socialist rapporteur. It would otherwise have been more obvious to ask about the policy of social democracy there. I think, unfortunately, that I have to admit that it is not in this round that I have convinced the Social Democrats to pursue a proper and humane foreign policy on all points. I'd really like to brag about that if it was. But I am actually glad that we can agree that it is better to integrate people, it is better to get them to become part of the Danish labour market and teach them the Danish language than it is to create a new subclass of people who then have no connection with our community.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134226	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134229	Thank you. I'm just gonna follow up on Mr. Kim. Uffe Elbæk's question. Would Mrs Pernille Skipper not confirm that the position of the Enhedslisten is that we want to hold a referendum in Denmark on continued EU membership? And could not Mrs Pernille Skipper also share with us what such a referendum would recommend to the Danes to vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134257	It is true that if we get a majority in favour of it, we would like to hold a referendum, and we would also recommend that Denmark leave the EU depending on what the agreement that has now been concluded would be about. That is absolutely right. It is one leg of Enhedslisten's EU policy, that is to say, on the one hand, to try to create other international cooperation forums which do not have the Treaty basis, as I know Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen is also rather critical of, and ensures that companies can exploit migrant workers, people from other countries, for example. to print pay and working conditions in Denmark. The second leg is, of course, to try to change the conditions from within. And that's also why, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen also knows very well that Enhedslisten is running for the EU Parliament, part of the Left Group, working internationally with our sister parties across countries, among others. in order to combat social dumping and to do more in our national parliaments, while at the same time working in the European Union and proposing that Denmark should support a social protocol in the European Union, here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134405	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134405-2	Thank you. There should be no doubt that, in this way, I have both understanding and respect for • and I think it is also wise, as such, to take the path of reform in the European Union too. And we fully share the view that it is too easy today to create social dumping and so on. What I, on the other hand, am puzzled about, like Mr. Uffe Elbæk, I think, is why you want to have a referendum at all, in which you would recommend the Danes that we should resign from the European Union. That's the first thing. The second is the question: will not Mrs Pernille Skipper also confirm to me, as I have been able to explore the terrain, that the Enhedslisten is one of the very, very few of the many like-minded parties that Enhedslisten has in Europe and in the European Union, which actually recommends the same thing as the Enhedslisten, namely to hold referendums like Brexit and, as such, also recommend the people to resign?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134506	No, the latter is not correct. In other words, it is true that there has once been such a little division between the left-wing parties in Europe, where the southern European parties were much more EU-positive than the northern Europeans. This is no longer the case, and it is, among other things, because the consequences of the European Union's policy in Greece have been seen. This has made Enhedslisten's like-minded attitude as Mr. Uffe Elbæk also tried to ask about the change in attitude on long stretches, and now also says that if you cannot change the Treaty basis in the foreseeable future, you will have to withdraw. And then you have to do it on proper and orderly terms. And, of course, cooperation with the European Union can still be done away with. This is the case in Norway, which is not a member and which has not yet gone back and forth, on the contrary. Of course it can be done. It is basically about ensuring that we do not continue to beat in a duvet in the European Union where reforms are being talked about. And I know that the Social Democratic Party and the SF-Alternate have not done so by its very nature for so many years also keeps talking about the need for reform. But when are they coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134611	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, SF, who's asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134615	Thank you. We have a lot in common with Enhedslisten. Therefore, it can also be difficult to find the good questions for Enhedslisten's speech during opening and closing debates. I believe that what separates SF from the Enhedslisten is our parliamentary strategy, that is, how many conciliations you have to be in and what it takes to enter into a settlement. I can sometimes miss Enhedslisten in the many settlements where we sit and box with making Denmark redder and greener. Then I saw an announcement from Mrs Pernille Skipper that the Enhedslisten would like to be in government after the next election. I even think you were playing with the idea of wanting to have the PM post. But it is the case that if you go into a government, you also go into all the reconciliations. SF did. The Liberal Alliance has done that. And that is what you do because you have to manage an entire country and manage all the reconciliations. I would really like to hear, since Enhedslisten has both presented this plan for the first 1,000 days and flirted with the idea of Prime Minister's post, whether Enhedslisten will be ready to enter into all conciliation and finally come in to SF and help make Denmark redder and greener, so get in where you actually do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134728	We didn't quite make it to 1,000 days. That was 100 days. But I would like to take this opportunity to advertise 100 days with the Enhedslisten. This is an example of what we could do if we were given power, as we have been watching, and if we had a red-green progressive government to the left of the Social Democratic Party, which we really would also like to see the SF aim towards. It is not our aim in life to make a Social Democrat Prime Minister. We have a much more ambitious goal, and we really want our very good friends to be more ambitious than that. Then I don't know what kind of settlement it is, sir. Jacob Mark misses Enhedslisten in. Is it the early retirement and flex-job reform, is it the North Sea Tax Agreement, is it the 2012 tax reform, or is it the primary school reform or the rate pool agreement? But I can promise that this is not a settlement in which the Enhedslisten intends to enter. Should the day come when Enhedslisten and perhaps the SF and the Alternative could form a government on the left, then we have to deal with what kind of settlement we would like to enter into and what kind of settlement we would like to terminate together. It is part of negotiating intergovernmental cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134843	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134844	But then Enhedslisten de facto disclaims all the possibilities of influencing some of the things that matter most to our party's voters. After all, it is in the conciliation on early retirement and flexible jobs that we can improve the conditions for the unemployed. It is right now, or rather in one hour, in the public school circle that we hope to make school day shorter. It would be such a big help that we had more red parties in those conciliation circles. Does Mrs Pernille Skipper not recognise that if the Enhedslisten will never be part of conciliation circles, that is, where parliamentary work is being done and decisions are being made, then there is no earthly chance that Enhedslisten will be in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004134919	Sir. Jacob Mark is absolutely right that there is a lot we can agree on and that this is some of what divides us. Because it is not in the public school circle that you have to make school day shorter. That's where they made it longer in the first place. And what the SF is doing in that settlement, I have no idea. What SF is doing in the settlement on flex jobs and early retirement, which has forced people into work testing 2 hours a week bringing the bed to work, I have no idea. And no, it doesn't make the world any better that we're more people doing bad things. It would make the world better if we were more people who insisted that people affected by disease who need help and support actually got it. It would make our world better if we were more people who actually fought for the primary school and who listened to the teachers and pupils who go there, as was done by the reform that the SF agreed to in no way. So what the SF is doing in those settlements, I have no idea. Enhedslisten won't be there. We don't want to be involved in bad things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135019	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135022	Thank you for your cooperation on the proposal for adoption until today. I think we have done well, and that is why there is also an outstretched hand from here to see if we can continue the good cooperation. I would like to make a small thought experiment: a company lacks a skilled employee. It could be for a year's salary of DKK 350,000. in accordance with the rules and agreements in force, including: Then there are two applicants. One is from Portugal and the other is from Brazil. The salary is fixed by agreement. We are not interfering in this at all; the social partners are managing it. The conditions of employment are exactly the same as those of colleagues. The parent objective of the Portuguese and Brazilian applicants is quite the same, namely Portuguese. The question is: is it essential for Enhedslisten that the company recruits the Portuguese rather than the Brazilian?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135119	Of course, it is not nationality that is crucial, but there is also a difference in that we are already part of the internal market, and so is Portugal. So there are two different sets of rules. And, no, we are not going to create an internal market around the world where we can use labour in the same way to come and subdue wage and working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135142	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135143	Good. So nationality is not the determining factor. What I think I heard in the debate was that what was crucial was the terms of the agreement, which guarantees proper pay. And when we in Denmark have arranged it in such a way that it is the social partners who, after a negotiation, agree with each other on what is a proper salary for the work being done, then it should actually be okay for some people to be employed, even if they did not happen to live in the EU, if only the salary was the collective wage. Couldn't we find each other here? We could even make the extra condition so I think that Enhedslisten could be with us saying that this only applies if you have apprentices, so that you cannot pick up skilled labour abroad without taking a training responsibility. If we say that you have apprentices and you have an agreement, should we not let the company decide for itself whether it is the Portuguese or the Brazilian that you hire?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135237-2	The problem is that this is not really the case. In other words, the problem is that often when foreign workers come from other European countries, they do not get the same allowances as others in the workplace. I think this is a dangerous development to open up to, that is, that people from all over the world can come from all over the world and work in Denmark, because of course there are many who have a great interest in working for much less than in practice in Denmark. That is why I think that the limit is a good idea. It ensures that companies can obtain highly specialised labour if they are willing to pay for it and if they really lack it, but it also ensures that companies look for the available Danish labour force and do not print pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135327	Thank you. Then we'll round off with mr. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135331	Thank you. I would like to say to Mrs Pernille Skipper that the green, conservative, liberal government is about to come up with a proposal for a new climate plan. A little has been lifted up that we will, for the first time ever, phase out the sale of new cars running on petrol or diesel from 2030. We have already decided that coal will be phased out by 2030, and for the first time ever Denmark has decided to put an end date on coal consumption in Denmark. We have made an energy reconciliation, the most ambitious ever, together with all the parties of the Danish Parliament including the Enhedslisten; it is a settlement which means that we are now going to build three large offshore wind farms. In general, the green measures that have been taken just in recent years are the most ambitious we have ever seen of green measures. Is the Enhedslisten not quite comfortable with the fact that we have a government that takes care of the green agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135448-2	I don't know what would happen if I said yes. The Enhedslisten is quite pleased that some kind of green competition has arisen in here; I think that is actually quite liberating, so it is about looking most green. Then we also just need to make it about trading And even though the energy settlement, for example, builds on previous energy reconciliation and thus in itself is a step forward and therefore Enhedslisten is also with "so no, three offshore wind farms are not enough. We should build more. No, I do not think that it is particularly flashy to phase out petrol and diesel vehicles by 2030, without saying whether or not to impose a ban by 2030, as I understand it. It is just such a loose objective that has no consequences. I do not think that is ambitious. In Enhedslisten we would say: In 2025 we prohibit the sale of new petrol and diesel cars in Denmark. Then the market has some time to adjust, and then we also know when there is an end date on it. There are no fluffy objectives, we're just doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135559	I didn't expect us to be able to meet all the wishes that Enhedslisten has. But for another question, which I think is important, we are getting an answer to here today by Mrs Pernille Skipper: when we negotiated the new family law system and I was with myself, all the parties of the Folketing were involved. It was gratifying because it is a major reform, a major social reform that we have made. But a large part of the money we spent and which went to the family law system came from the rate pool. What I would like to hear from Mrs Pernille Skipper is this: if we are again to allocate money to the rate pool, can we expect here in the Danish Parliament that Enhedslisten will ensure that the money that is to be entered into the rate pool when they are willing to spend it afterwards, for the last time there was no money for which Mrs Pernille Skipper and the Enhedslisten had voted, they have just voted against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135711-2	I would like to start by saying that it is absolutely true that the government does not meet all the wishes of Enhedslisten for the green transition. I wish we could perhaps just meet a few of those that climate experts and others have for the green transition, so we would get really, really far. The bet pool? No, Enhedslisten will not enter into the bet pool settlement. We would very much like to help find funding, among other things. to new family houses in a different way. That is what we said at the time, and we say it again. We would very much like to find other ways of financing, but we do not enter the rate pool. This is an antisocial way of financing social projects and, unfortunately, it is not real social projects anymore, but ordinary welfare projects such as a divorce system being financed by them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135759	That was the answer, and so we thank Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Then we welcome the next in line, and this is Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004135814	Thank you, President. The Liberal Alliance has disproportionate influence. That's not what I'm saying. That's something, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says. Thank you for your compliments, and I agree entirely with you, by the way. It is good that the Liberal Alliance has so much influence, because when we have influence, we relieve the tax of more than 20 billion. kr.; when we have influence, there will be more freedom in primary school; when we have influence, the Danes will get cheaper cars; when we have influence, the first serious steps will be taken for a fixed link across Kattegat; when we have influence, we will improve conditions for the elderly; and when the Liberal Alliance has influence, the media market will be adapted to today's circumstances. These are all things that have been important to us, for which we have fought hard and for which there was no immediate majority, but which have been successfully achieved in cooperation with the Danish People's Party, the Left and the Conservative People's Party. Thank you so much for that. When we enter government offices, it is with the premise that man is more important than the system that the citizen is more important than the state. The other day I had a dream about Poul Nyrup Rasmussen and I did that and it was a wonderful dream, because I dreamed of his election slogan back in the 1990s, and here I'm not thinking of the women thing, namely that women will have Nyrup, which stood chiseled with big characters across the face of the Prime Minister's candidate. No, I'm thinking of the election poster that had the slogan "Gang" in the '90s. What had to boost the wheels was a reduction in taxes and taxes because it would increase competitiveness. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen chose lower income tax, lower corporation tax, lower taxes. The social democracy, which wants to lower taxes, is something that can make an LA's totally soft on their knees. That is why I am surprised when I hear the left rage today against tax cuts, as if it were something the cat had dragged in. Excuse me, we're not government raisers. So citizens are not there for the sake of the state. And that is why we should all stop talking about tax cuts and welfare as if they were opposites. This is a false contradiction, because tax relief is also welfare. Tax reliefs have a definite impact on Danish families. Let's just take three completely random of them. We could call them the Skippers, the Dyhrs and the Elbæks. The Skipper family experience greater welfare when it is not the economy that determines whether you can send your child to a free school. The Dyhr family experience greater welfare when the government's tax relief on income, free phone and PSO gives them approx. 10,000 kroner. more in your hands a year • money that you can spend on a gardener, a new bike for the children or to take grandmother with you on vacation. And the Elbæk family experience greater welfare when they can afford a larger and safer car • or even car number two, so logistics are a little more connected. So more air in the private economy is also welfare. It gives citizens more freedom to adapt as they please, and not as we wish on their behalf. The public sector does not have a monopoly, we do not have a monopoly on providing welfare to the Danes, and we must stop pretending that welfare is contrary to tax cuts. In the Liberal Alliance, we are deeply serious when we say that we are working for more freedom, for lower taxes, for more growth and for smaller states. These are four key issues which are at the heart of our political work and which we believe are crucial to Denmark's future. We fight for that, we do it in society, we do it in the government, and we do it here in the Folketing. We are not going to get through everything, but we are doing what we can and I think we are getting good currency for our 13 mandates. The Minister for Education of the Liberal Alliance has recently put forward a plan for the future of our primary schools. Basically, it is about more freedom and more freedom for school leaders, more freedom for teachers and, above all, more freedom for school pupils. It's important. We must remember that primary school is the school of the people and not the school of the system. I have no doubt that more freedom in primary school is what it takes to strengthen primary school. It is important that we have a strong primary school, which is at the heart of education and education, but it is also important that there are alternatives to primary school, namely the free schools, either the free schools, which offer a special emphasis on a professional, educational or creative aspect, or the free schools, which voluntary forces in civil society have laboriously established after the death route of primary school closures by many municipalities. In many of those villages, the small free school is the very centre of activity and community, and that is why citizens can stay instead of having to move to the nearest larger city. Free schools are so important for rural life. During this parliamentary term, we have reduced the own pay for parents in free schools and thus made the free choice available to more citizens. Mrs Mette Frederiksen does not like that. In social democracy, the line is that the free schools should be for the few, because they think that max. 10% of the school pupils must attend a free or private school. Today, almost 20 per cent chooses. It is precisely the 121,000 children who have chosen a different offer from the primary school; that is what is called free choice. And that is why Mrs Mette Frederiksen also owes an answer to who exactly it is of the 121 000 children who have to leave the school they have chosen. What kind of villages are they gonna lose their local school? We'll start this week the last session before the next parliamentary elections. If you had any doubt about that, you could just look at the many proposals for increased public spending that roll out of the campaign offices of the parties. Everyone talks about how much money you want to spend and what you want to spend it on, and very few talk about where the money should come from. Everything is going well in the Danish economy. Employment is high, unemployment is low and companies have order books full. The public sector is growing less than the private sector. The latter was also an ambition in Anders Fogh Rasmussen's bourgeois governments in the 00s. Not quite then, it is now, but there is one, but we are in the middle of a boom, and despite that, economic growth does not even reach 2%. This is problematic because economic growth is the foundation for better living standards, for development, for welfare, for more freedom and actually for a better life. One of the barriers that stand in the way of higher growth is a shortage of labour. Companies report that they look up positions in vain and have to reject orders because they simply cannot recruit. It is worrying, but no more worrying, than that we can actually do a great deal here in the Folketing to solve that problem if we want to. We can improve the fast track system and we can lower the limit. I have to admit that I simply do not understand the opposition to the last one because quite frankly, what is really wrong with the former welder from Brazil, or what is wrong with a health assistant from the United States? If they match well with a need in a Danish company and want to settle among us, what is the real problem in that? Why is it that people are not allowed to hire the people they want? Why do we even have to get involved in this? In general, we must intervene much less. We need to be less paternalistic, less knowledgeable and more trusting to our citizens. As a liberal party, we see it as our task to get in the way of the citizens as little as possible. It is with the mindset that we are working and we are also going to the elections to continue in government with the Left and the Conservative People's Party. The government is producing results for the citizens. We have given priority to welfare. Recordmany Danes have a job. The number of asylum seekers is the lowest in nine years. More than 146 000 private jobs have been created since the elections. And we will stand together to make Denmark even freer and richer. It's the course that's set. I've heard that sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl does not believe that the Liberal Alliance should set the course for Denmark to the same extent. Apparently, you want a different course. But, frankly, that would be a pity, because that would mean the opposite: more asylum seekers, higher taxes, more expensive cars, less freedom. Honestly, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, I think we can agree that would be a wrong course for Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004140820	Thank you very much, Mrs Egelund. There are a number of questioners, and if you keep to the speaking time, I think we will get through them all, otherwise it will be difficult. The first in line is sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004140830	Thank you very much for your speech. I almost wanted to say that the rapporteur is not the only one who dreams about Poul Nyrup Rasmussen sometimes, but I still think that would be a little strange to say. But there are many of us who respect the old giant. I'd like to ask you about tax relief. It is obvious to everyone that I think we could all keep up with this last autumn that the rapporteur's party failed to implement the historicly great tax concessions that had been proposed. Trees and trees crawled up. All those things we know. But could the rapporteur not elaborate on behalf of the government what the ambition is for future tax cuts? And does the rapporteur share the view of the many ads and posters we have seen from the ruling party of the Left, where, in fact, much more money has been added to the welfare society and that is what needs to be done now? Can the rapporteur not elaborate on how to look at the whole consensus or disagreement within the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004140945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004140948	When we talk about this dreaming thing, I'm not gonna dictate who, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen dreams of, but when I dream of Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, it might be that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen should begin to dream of Mr. Anders Samuelsen at night. Laughter To the question of taxation and what the Government's ambition is for tax reform, I would like to say that I am now here as political rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, and I would very much like to answer what the Liberal Alliance thinks would be a sensible tax policy in Denmark. I think that is well known. I think we also know that we are very ambitious when it comes to not burdening both citizens and companies with lower taxes than they are paying today. We mean, for example: Not, you have to pay the tax of the first 7,000 kroner you make a month. At the same time, it is a very good social policy. It is something that can do that some of those who are still away at the edge of the labour market can actually be allowed to get a foot inside. These are the last ones we need to get in. We do not think that we should pay more than 40%. Baby. We believe that companies should be made less expensive by tax. We believe that taxes should be reduced so that goods become cheaper and we strengthen Denmark's competitiveness. So the price of our tax policy is quite clear and well-known.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141058	Thank you. The rapporteur should now be in no doubt that I actually sometimes dream of Mr. Anders Samuelsen. This is what is called nightmares and especially nightmares in relation to what it would be for a society we woke up to if Mr. Anders Samuelsen and the rapporteur were given as much power as they had heeded. In August in the Berlingske Tidende, the Minister for Finance said that the government will not be able to vote for more tax cuts, either at the bottom or the top or anywhere else. The rapporteur is now saying that the Liberal Alliance wants more tax relief and, at the same time, we have also heard that the governing parties are going to elections to continue as government after election. I would therefore like to ask: does the rapporteur agree with the Minister for Finance that there should be no more tax cuts, and what does that mean when it comes to going to elections together to form a new government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141155	Well, it's no more complicated than the Liberal Alliance and the Left being not the same party. I have also heard what the Minister for Finance has said, and that then insulates itself to the ambitions of the Left. I think it is quite out of the question that different parties have different policies. That's how I think it's in the red block, too. We can then, for example, do it with us. agree on who we think should lead the country. So that's how I think we're gonna go a little bit further. In relation to this nightmare: I have noted that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen has engaged in the Swedish election campaign and apparently likes the Swedish Social Democrats. I just want to say that our tax policy is more left-wing than the Swedish social democracy's tax policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141234	Thank you. I do not know if we will continue with the dreaming, but at least now it is Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141243	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I found it very interesting that it was established that the Liberal Alliance is working for more freedom and that you are a liberal party. But at the same time, while you've been in government, there's been a ban on some clothes that you can't wear. Private homes have been expropriated. A revision of the logging notice has been postponed, which means that thousands of Danes are still being monitored. There has also been a dispute of equality before the law in the form of double sentences in certain residential areas. It seems to me that this is not very liberal, and I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it really is an expression of liberal politics in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141329	Yes, it is. If we were to take some of the impact points that Mrs Rosa Lund has, for example. I think it is also Mrs Rosa Lund's knowledge that the Liberal Alliance chose to free our Members on this issue. Personally, I voted against it, and many others did, and some voted in favour of it. As far as logging is concerned, it is true that a revision of the logging order has been postponed, and that is because there has been a judgment in the European Union, as Mrs Rosa Lund well knows, back in December 2016, which means that we have to implement the current logging rules. I am quite happy about that, because I think I share the ambition that Enhedslisten usually has when it comes to logging, namely that we need to monitor more targetedly instead of this general logging that we have now. So in this context, I am pleased that we have that EU judgment and that we will actually have to set up new logging rules across different positions, which are more in line with a more targeted logging and a less mass-supervising logging.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141429	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141433	It is simply because Mrs Christina Egelund said in her speech that there was so much liberal influence in the government, and this burka ban has been implemented in a way. But let me give another very specific example. After all, the government's so-called ghetto plan expropriates private homes, in other words throwing people out of house and home, is making a huge interference in private property, which is usually high on the agenda of the Liberal Alliance. And there I find it hard to see where the liberal influence in the government is. Where are the private freedoms of this government that the Liberal Alliance claims to represent?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141512	But it is true that as a liberal I don't dream when I don't dream about Poul Nyrup Rasmussen about expropriating, I don't, but I dream that we solve the problems we have with parallel societies and ghetto formations in certain parts of Denmark. And then, from a basic point of view, one can climb up on the high horse and say: I am simply too fine to solve these problems. But we don't feel that way. So the problem is that problems have arisen in some parts of Denmark, in ghettos and in parallel societies, and I think we should solve them. And that is perhaps the difference between the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141545	Thank you. Then we'll go over to mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141552	I like how the debate is about to take a very new turn: We both talk about and explain the Danish society between three family types • the Skipper family, the Dyhr family and the Elbæk family. I would just like to say that although I have apparently been given much better opportunity to get a car during this period of government, I would just like to say, as a public bonus information, that I do not have a driving licence. So it didn't really hit me. Laughter On the other hand, of course, I have a question which goes more on the decision of the government on Denmark's Radio and Public Service. This is much more serious to me than whether I have a driving licence or not, because I see what is happening both in Denmark and in the world as a challenge to democracy in many ways. We are challenged by fake news, we are challenged by some very unpleasant ways of influencing the public from outside our own country. In this situation, the priority is to cut Denmark's Radio by 20%. But what has actually been done is that over a four-year period almost a small billion kroner has been cut out of the public service budget, and that has not gone to another way of making public service production, it has gone directly out of the budget. That is to say, it is used for tax relief, and I know what. But the fact that public service production has been weakened at a time when we are experiencing pressure through fake news, I simply do not understand. Can the rapporteur explain this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141742	I think the questioner is saying something very right, namely that democracy is challenged, and we must take this seriously. That's how far we agree. I do not therefore agree that the only answer to the challenge facing democracy is a very large Danish Radio. In a modern time with many new media platforms, many new ways of communicating, new entrepreneurs who create the media in a completely new way... we know them all... they must also help deliver answers to the challenges that democracy faces. So I simply do not buy the premise for the questioner's question, that is, the fact that democracy is under threat and that the only answer is a very large state-funded media. I think we are more faced with the threat that I agree with there, with a diverse media market, where we also have more room for other ways of doing things than the way Denmark's Radio does them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141839	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141842	That was also exactly my point: it may well be that you can imagine Denmark's Radio having a different size and functioning in a different way, but my question was that you have downgraded public service production with a small billion kroner over four years. This means that the money has been taken out of the area. That's all that matters, isn't it? It's a downgrade. So what I see you have done is that you have downgraded it, while at the same time privatising it. It has been said that there must be some other players. The latter part can be discussed in purely professional terms if you can't do it in some other ways, some other platforms. But my question was that a small billion kroner has been taken out of the budget. This means that public service production as such has been downgraded.I am not talking about Denmark's Radio, but public service at a time when we need a strong public who can go against fake news, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141933	At the same time, however, it has been spread out so that more people have the opportunity to bid to deliver public service tasks. It was basically the same thing you did when you made Radio24seven. My point is that it cannot be right that the only people who are able to provide public service are Denmark's Radio. I simply disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141951	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004141955	At once, I was both happy and stunned over all that talk about personal freedom. Because I think there are many liberal liberals who have been disappointed by the measures that have come from the government, so it is no longer the case that no matter who you are, you have to decide where you want to settle in Denmark. It is now determined by one's income ratio. It is no longer free to decide how to dress, and no matter how you stand, it is still on the watch of the Liberal Alliance. But now we have to try to look forward and see what it is. That is why the government's legislative programme is looking a little far after changes to the Public Service Act, a place where there should actually be more freedom and openness. I would also like to hear what the Liberal Alliance is going to do about the bill to ensure the correct body touch on the reception of new citizens in town halls around, that is, the so-called handshake injunction, which seems to have to be legislated for. Is it with the full open mind and support of the Liberal Alliance that the government is now resorting to legislation to impose fines on mayors who do not shake hands in the right way to their new fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142109	I believe that, in this way, I share the disappointment of the questioner that during this parliamentary term it has not succeeded in reaching agreement within the conciliation circle behind the Public Access Act to ease public access to documents. It is so fair, I think, to say that it is part of history that Mr. Morten Østergaard was part of the conciliation circle under the government which introduced the austerity, in which large parts of the work of the public administration were really darkened. I am just as tired of that, I think, as the questioner is. With regard to handshakes, I would like to say that I would agree that perhaps I do not think that is what is at the top of the list of important two do-things that we must do in order to save society. On the other hand, it has been brought up as a political proposal, and then you have to take a position on it. I also think it would be very strange to throw ourselves warmly and passionately into the fight for the right to refuse to shake hands. I think both sides are kind of weird. But when we have to choose, I think it's more natural to confirm that in Denmark we are shaking hands, and we think that we should do that at this ceremony, instead of insisting that we should have the right to refuse to shake hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142215	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142218	But the government has written in its government basis that the Public Service Act should be relaxed. A bill has been produced which could have been put in the Folketing and which would presumably receive a great deal of support, even if it would be a small step. What is simply astonishing is that one can twist oneself a little and say that it may not be the most important thing, but the government has no difficulty in making legislative proposals that deal with cover-up bans or handshake injunctions and things like that. It goes straight ahead and then it goes into the law program and then it goes out there. The Liberal Alliance looks either passively or actively, but when it comes to delivering something that actually moves something, then the government is left with a little bow lamb, and we ask ourselves where the Liberal Alliance is when something is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142307	But, frankly, I do not think that the questioner is really in doubt about where the Liberal Alliance is when it comes to the Public Service Act. I also think it is known to both of us that there are very different views on it in the conciliation circle behind the Public Service Act. We weren't involved in the settlement that Mr. Morten Østergaard was involved with the then Minister of Justice, Mr. Morten Bødskov. I really believe that, in order to draw the law of the public in the direction that the Liberal Alliance wants and which the Radical Left now wants, but apparently did not want at that time, it is better to have the Liberal Alliance in the conciliation circle than outside. I think we can say quite frankly that, within the framework of this conciliation, there are very different points of view in this area. I would very much like to say, if we could agree tomorrow on significant reductions in the public procurement law, that we are absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142355	Thank you. Then it's mr. Serdal Benli, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142402	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna follow up on Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard's question about the Public Act. It is the case that on the Liberal Alliance website the party writes that the Public Service Act is a cover-up law and that the party is in favour of more openness in public administration. At first sight it can be said that the party has felt bound by the law because it entered the government and, as an excuse, leaned on the fact that the Minister of Justice made some concessions. What we can then see is that there is no change in the legal catalogue of this collection. Then my question is also whether, like this open party, which one claims to be, one is satisfied with it, or should one dismiss responsibility by saying that somebody just adopted it here at the time. I think I would like a clearer answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142455	I would very much like to reply to that very clearly. The Liberal Alliance still believes that the austerity that was introduced when the SF sat in government last time, with the votes of the SF, was a scandal for our democracy, because the press's access to documents was obscured, the opportunity to look into the cards. So we stand exactly the same place we've been standing all along. Those who have moved are SF, and I am quite happy about that, because the SF is now saying that they want more openness. It had just been really, really nice that SF had also meant it when you were in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142527	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142530	Thank you. It is true that we have been involved in this, and I am not proud of it either. But it is true that we have taken a new position on it, and that is also why I am curious and will also ask about this. Because it is important for the electorate to know where the individual parties stand before an election in relation to this issue. So I would like to ask whether the Liberal Alliance will be bound by the post-election settlement and whether the party will be free to participate in a majority which will ensure more openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142605	First of all, I would like to answer where the Liberal Alliance stands. We are standing exactly where we have always stood, which means that the three paragraphs that were introduced were the last time the SF sat in government, so that at that time we would like to be abolished, and we are still doing so. So politically, we have not moved an inch. On the question of whether we are freed from conciliation after the next elections, I would say that it is the case that if, during this parliamentary term in which we have entered the conciliation, we do not agree on any changes to the law in the conciliation circle, we will be free to do so after the next elections. I have also heard that the Radical Left has terminated the conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142636	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142644	Thank you. It's good to dream. But now we have moved a little away from the dreams, and now it must also be about the realities and consequences of government policy. What does the rapporteur think about the Finance Minister's reply to the Danish Parliament, namely that the policy planned by the government will mean 10 000 fewer public employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142703	In the first place, I think it is very good that the Minister for Finance should reply to the Danish Parliament. After all, the Liberal Alliance is not a party that believes that the public sector should not be less. In fact, we believe that the public sector should be smaller. We are following the recommendation made by the former Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt of the Social Democratic Party, namely that the public sector can easily be made more efficient by 10%. However, as I understand it, some rather strange assumptions have been put into the question: if we all sit on our hands, do not change a comma, just drive out there and do not launch a health issue, for example, as the government has said you will, then something will go in that direction. But politics is not like that. Things aren't cast in concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142744	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142747	Thank you for an honest answer. So a little back to the dreams again: What are the dreams of the Liberal Alliance? How far do we have to go down the number of civil servants before the Liberal Alliance is satisfied with its own efforts in the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142802	As far as we are concerned, this is not really about a number of public employees. It is about having a public sector that has a power and a size that allows you to provide the service that citizens are entitled to with the tax they pay. This is, in fact, the relationship that I think is important. That is where I think we have an obligation to the taxpayers of this country, who are, after all, financing the public sector, to provide the services, welfare as best we can and as cheaply as possible. I think it is a little strange that one completely ignores the fact that there has been a commission that has been sitting and looking at this and has come to the conclusion that there is an efficiency potential of at least 10%, and that one still pretends that unless one throws more and more billions into the public sector, the baby dies the day after tomorrow. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142846	Thank you. Then we reached Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004142849	I'm sorry, I just got a little confused by the last thing that I don't think I got, but I think we're just gonna let that go. I would like to follow up on some of what has been asked about earlier on the relationship of the Liberal Alliance to liberal freedoms. For Mrs Christina Egelund said earlier, as an argument for being willing to compromise private property and expropriate housing in vulnerable residential areas, that the Liberal Alliance is not too good to solve problems. And so is it, apparently, even if it goes against fundamental freedoms. And the thing about the right not to shake hands is not something that is particularly concerned about the Liberal Alliance, I have to understand. That is why I am beginning to think that it is very much similar to the argument put forward by some other parties, where Mrs Christina Egelund and the Liberal Alliance have stood with us in the Enhedslisten to say: but there is, in fact, a limit to the fact that our freedoms must not be violated. That is what we are looking for in our I find that somewhat difficult to recognise, I would say to Mrs Christina Egelund, and so I would just like to ask: what extension of our liberal freedoms has the Liberal Alliance actually achieved? And that's not the registration fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143015	Thank you. And then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143019	Well, it is very, very simple to answer: We have expanded freedom of expression and, together with the Enhedslisten, abolished the blasphemy clause. I'm really glad we could work together on that. So, in the cooperation that I feel we have been working particularly with the questioner to stand guard over the liberal freedoms, we are fighting to ensure that they receive a majority when we sit in government. This is, of course, a very concrete result: the extension of freedom of expression to a completely fundamental liberal right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143045	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143048	This is a fantastic example, for it was a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten, which carried out the abolition of the blasphemy clause, probably against the will of the government and which brought it into a minority, as I remember it. But fair enough, I also thought it was a very good extension. What I just don't understand is, what about the public law? When are we gonna do something about it? When are we going to do something about surveillance that goes too far? When are we going to do something about the openness of the intelligence services, in other words the control of the intelligence services? What has the Liberal Alliance achieved, which is not a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten, where liberal freedoms have been strengthened?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143127	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143130	Excuse me, but then I have to say this: what is really wrong with a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten? Well, it must be the content that counts. Now Mrs Pernille Skipper began her question by saying that our two parties have been side by side on these issues, and that is a pretty good example of the fact that when we sit in government, we are doing something that is quite unusual for a government, namely that one government party persuades the rest of the government to vote in favour of an opposition party's motion for a resolution because it considers the content to be important. And that's the way we work. So I don't really recognize that picture that we just sound like the others and stuff. That was a pretty good example of how you can also act as a government party in new ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143209	Then it's Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143216	Thank you very much. The government base of the government that is now there says that the government will make an SU reform and that the proceeds will have to be put into a so-called pool of competences. When it comes to revenue, it means that there are some who should have less SU than what they are getting today, or that there are some who should have nothing in the future. So I'd like to know what the Liberal Alliance's goal is for a change. Is it the many students who need less, or is it the few students who should have nothing? Then I would also like to know whether the VLAK government will carry out an SU reform after an election if they win, because as things stand now, it will not be achieved before an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143306	At least the latter has been correctly observed. We will not be putting forward any reform proposals in the area of the SU, nor will the Liberal Alliance have it as our policy, nor have we opted for cutting the SU. What we think is important in the field of education is to give the students more freedom, and that is why, in connection with our summer group meeting, we launched that we go to the polls, among other things. to abolish the education ceiling, we are going to vote on abolishing the progress reform, but we do not have any current plans to cut the SU.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143337	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143342	However, it is evident that there are others in government who do, and so I would just like to tell the rapporteur that there are at least many families at home in my municipality, the City of Viborg, among others. in rural areas, where you are totally dependent on the SU that the home-grown young person gets when you go on an education, being housed every month. There is no money for bus cards or study-related costs, for example. study trips etc., unless the SU comes. I would like to know whether the Liberal Alliance will ensure that this will also happen in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143420	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143423	Then I can reassure both Mrs Karin Gaardsted and good people at home in the Viborg region that we have no plans to cut the SU period.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143434	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143441	Thank you. We believe in freeness of speech. • Everyone must seek happiness in his own way. We accept other people's choices as long as they don't hurt us. It is part of one of the five principles of the Liberal Alliance, in fact, in the programme of principles of the Liberal Alliance. At the same time, the rapporteur says in a reply earlier to Mrs Rosa Lund, I think it was that, from a fundamental point of view, we cannot just stand on the high horse in terms of freedoms and in terms of guaranteeing the citizens' free right to live as they please and wherever they like and dress in whatever clothes they like. And the rapporteur refers to the fact that when there are some challenges we have to solve, we cannot just put ourselves on the high horse from a fundamental point of view. But to that I would like to ask: What is at the bottom? What's the most important thing? So, in my understanding of freedoms and liberalism, it is below the political ideologies and below what is politically agreed in the Folketing, because it is fundamental to our democracy and our society that we all have the right to believe in what we want and dress as we please and live wherever we want, etc. However, as I hear the rapporteur, the rapporteur compromises on what is in the Liberal Alliance's own programme of principles, namely that everyone must do what you want and believe in what you want, and so on, as long as it does not harm others. So what's more important? Is it freedom, or is it ideology?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143553	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143557	I do not think it is necessarily possible to set it up as one another's opposites. We believe in freedom, we believe in freedoms. We have that in all the decisions we make. However, in the cases referred to by the questioner, we were also faced with the task of solving some very serious problems in parallel societies. I don't dream of expropriating or telling anyone to send their children to institutions. Of course you can say that, but then we just go outside the field, and then we sit out there talking about being very, very principled and not solving the problems. I do not think that is the task we have as politicians. It is always a balance between one and the other. I think we have an obligation to solve the problems so that the children who grow up in parallel societies actually also have a fair chance to have a decent life and also to grow up in freedom and be allowed to be part of the society that provides so much, just when it comes to freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143653	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143655	But if we follow that logic, then a political majority in the Folketing can at any time override the freedoms of a political decision based on a political ideology. That is what the rapporteur is saying. And then I'm just thinking, yes, there are problems we have to solve out there. I think we all agree on that. And yes, we all want to help solve the challenges we have in our society. But we can do that without compromising our freedoms. It just seems that the rapporteur does not want to be involved, and the Liberal Alliance has compromised that at least in the way I think the Liberal Alliance has acted during this period of government. But what if we take it as a precondition that we have to secure our freedoms and then find solutions • that could not be a way to continue?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143739	I would put it this way: if the alternative has good, effective proposals which do not in any way compromise freedoms and which can work in terms of solving the problems of parallel societies, then we would very much like to see them both and discuss them with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143753	Then it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143800	The rapporteur said that the Liberal Alliance is happy to go to the elections to continue the government and also to this influence, which is believed to prevail when you sit in government. Today we have discussed health policy, and I would really like to ask a few questions about how the influence of LA has been felt here. In the social democracy we want free and equal access to health, we absolutely do not want user charges for our healthcare. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether it is the policy of the Liberal Alliance to introduce user charges into the health sector and whether this is something that we want to get into a future government basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143844	We made an agreement with the Left and the Conservative People's Party prior to the last choice not to introduce user charges into health care. It is true that at some point we proposed a user fee, I think it was 100 kr. to go to the general practitioner. But the important thing about this proposal is that it goes hand in hand with lowering taxes, among other things. by being exempt from tax from the first DKK 7,000 you earn a month. After all, it is clear that if you are to introduce user charges into the public sector, it must go hand in hand with the fact that you are actually giving citizens more of their own money to dispose of. It is not the case that you simply introduce user charges, and then it is just a hidden extra tax. I know the Social Democrats are very good at that. You have to introduce user charges, you have to open that discussion at all, then it goes one to one hand in hand with tax cuts for citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143930	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143933	I was just looking at the policy of the Liberal Alliance, and it says that these 130 kroner are being proposed. to see a doctor. The rapporteur then says that the last agreement was made with the other bourgeois parties that user charges would not be introduced. Does that agreement also apply after a choice, or can the Danes look forward to having user charges on healthcare? That is, in fact, a very clear question and one should be able to give a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004143957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144000	Well, if we are fortunate enough that after the next elections there will be a blue majority and we are going to negotiate with the other blue parties about a continued bourgeois course for Denmark, then it is not close to being what is at the top of our wish list.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144012	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144019	I would like to read out a quote that I think is relevant to this debate and it starts here: I would be so sorry to have to move because I think I've had so many good years out here. Just moving out of my view and my nice neighbors! I don't even feel I could survive it... the words come from a woman named Ena Jarland. She is 84 years old and lives in the general residential area of Bispehaven in Aarhus. The words fell in response to the so-called ghetto plan, which the Liberal Alliance is part of, and which a liberal minister is in charge of. It is a ghetto agreement which means that thousands of people like Ena risk being evicted from their homes, their childhood homes. I actually thought that the Liberal Alliance meant it when you said that you cared about private property, but that obviously does not apply to the private housing associations where these people live. Because what the Liberal Alliance is doing here, with a liberal minister in charge, is agreeing to use state power to expropriate private homes and put families out of their homes. Is that liberal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144132	I am really glad that Enhedslisten is so concerned about private property, because the last time I checked out Enhedslisten's policy, it was such a thing about nationalising a lot of private property. But if you've found a new love for private property, I'd just like to say welcome to the club. When we do this in the ghetto area, it's not to hit anyone negative, it's not to hurt anyone, it's not to ruin someone's life. It's actually about the opposite. It is about tackling some massive problems, as there are in some parts of Denmark. And the questioner can sit and shake his head, but if you do not recognise that there are some problems that need to be resolved, you are not in a position to solve them either. As I have said to some other questioners today, there is the matter of resorting to means that are robust, of course not something you dream of as a liberal. I don't. I just want to say that openly and honestly. However, I do not think it would be useful for us, when we take political responsibility on behalf of our country, on behalf of our citizens, to sit in front of our eyes and pretend that the problems are not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144239	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144243	That was a lot of extravagance, and I think the question that came from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier before was very relevant. It is, of course, fundamental when, in order to achieve some political objectives, we are prepared to undermine fundamental rights. No, Enhedslisten is not against private property, on the contrary. What you're doing here is using state power to expropriate private homes, and you are doing that because it's general housing associations. You would never do the same in a parcelhouse district in Hvidovre or a residential district in Rungsted. Like her, Ena, I quoted before, so accurately put it: The people who live in such a place are not worth anything. That is what they say: we are not good enough, we who live here. That's how I understand people feel about the Liberal Alliance and the expropriation minister Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144330	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144333	I'm getting a little confused about this new-found love for private property. The last time I looked and then it may be that I'm wrong, it may be that I have bad memory... I mean, that said in Enhedslisten's party program that you would have a fight with private property. But I'm happy if things are different. When we do this, it's to improve conditions, to improve living conditions in areas that are really, really difficult. You might think you shouldn't, and that everything will work out if you just leave it to yourself. However, I do not think that it does, because we can see how things have turned out when we have left everything to ourselves without intervening. That is perhaps the difference between political responsibility and political irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144414	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144423	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for an always good debate. I would like to turn somewhere else, particularly to our companies and the responsibility they have for the world in which we live. I do not know whether the rapporteur saw what was in Information on Monday about what it means that we import a lot of soya to feed our pig basses in this country. What does that mean for indigenous people in South America? What does this mean for nature and the environment in South America? Does the rapporteur think that companies in Denmark have a responsibility for the world we are part of? And is the Liberal Alliance going to start looking at whether we should work with some more demands for companies to live up to that responsibility, for example for indigenous peoples' rights in a place like South America?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144505	I must simply admit with shame that I have not read the information article from Monday about soya and pigs, but I will do so after the debate. The questioner asks such a little unconcern, doesn't he? Because do I believe that companies have a responsibility to ensure that conditions are good? Yeah, of course, but that depends on what you mean. I mean, does that mean chain responsibility? What does that mean? If you are a little more specific, I can also give a more specific answer to that. I just have to say in general terms that I believe that we in Denmark have nothing to be ashamed of in relation to the way our companies act, even when it comes to agriculture. We have one of the cleanest agricultural productions in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144549	Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144551	Just to the end: yes, we have clean production within the country's borders. We can then discuss how this is going to work, but this is just outside the borders of our country, and when I ask a little overarching, it is actually because I do not think that we can afford to be too specific in these debates. I know what it's like to read up to stand on the platform! So that is actually very fundamental, and that is why I am trying to be very fundamental about whether or not we should start setting clearer rules. There is discussion in the UN about what is discussed in many places. Does the Liberal Alliance think that there is a need for clearer rules in these areas, so that companies are required to live up to the need to protect it, so that, throughout their value chain, when importing soya, they have a responsibility for where it has been grown, or is it up to the free market?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144637	Okay, I get it. Then it is all about chain liability, not for your employees, but chain responsibility for the companies you trade with. So, the question is: if a Danish company imports something from a company in e.g. Chile, or what do I know, is that company responsible for the conditions of production there? I believe that it will be very, very difficult in legal terms to introduce, that is to say that we must be able to take legal responsibility for what others do, that is to say, other citizens or other companies. Something quite different is that you have a moral responsibility. Yeah, I think you do. However, to have to hold a company legally accountable for what another company is doing in another country with different legislation, I am not immediately fond of.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144719	Then we reached the last question to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and that is Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144727	Thank you for that and thank you for your introduction. It sounded pretty good: when the Liberal Alliance gets influence, that's what's gonna happen. I would like to add a few things. We could have a long discussion about that with a shortage of labour, and we will take it afterwards. However, when the Liberal Alliance has influence, preventive health and safety efforts in Denmark deteriorate. The system seems to be more important than people when it comes to doing preventive work. Sixty-one thousand people are affected every year by an occupational injury at work, 2 000 of them die from the effects of the occupational injuries each year. It costs society 80 billion. kr., money that is quite, quite crazy to spend, because it can be prevented. Why is the Liberal Alliance helping to reduce preventive action and fire people in the Labour Inspectorate year after year? Next year, they're gonna fire 25 this year. They've fired 17. Next year, you save 40 million. kr. in preventive work on health and safety at work. What is the reason why we have to be burdened with such unnecessary costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144837	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144841	I think that if we are to achieve the goal of all people being well, including at their work, it is a matter of pursuing a policy of ensuring growth and ensuring that there is money in companies to take good care of their employees. Of course, it is also about supervision and control, and so do we, and I think that control should perhaps be a little more targeted than it is today. I myself have tried to be the head of a company where I could see what was being done by supervision and control by the public authorities, a place where things were completely under control. I am absolutely in favour of having both massive supervision and, of course, also consequences in those companies where it is known that the conditions of employees are being lagged behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144922	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144925	My experience after 40 years in a work environment effort in many jobs and in the union tells me that there is no connection between economic growth and a better working environment, absolutely none, and the curves do not even follow each other when you study a little, and that means that it is not enough to believe that growth does. Why do you systematically cut preventive health and safety efforts in finance law under finance law? And this has been done all the years LA has had influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004144957	I simply disagree fundamentally with the fact that growth is not the answer here. I think it is quite trivial that if business is doing well, if there is also air in the economy in the companies, then that is where you push the employees a little less. Then you have the air in the economy to take good care of those who work there. That is why it is so important that I also said that in my speech, too, for the general good and for having a good life and greater freedom in Denmark, that we are pursuing a policy that actually leads to higher growth than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004145027	Then we thank Mrs Christina Egelund for her efforts. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004145039	Thank you. As much as I appreciate the conversations I have with my good colleagues in this Chamber, my speech is written for you at first in the gallery up here and for you, who may be following the opening debate in the country. It is not least a tribute to all of you who every day try to hold onto what brings us together as a society, instead of what divides us, that is. Those of you who leave the job, at your educational institution, at your association, in the spontaneous encounter with a stranger on the street or at home across the kitchen table defend the basic humanities and thus stand up for a generous Denmark. I will begin by going back 50 years to 1968, when I was 14 years old. I was a teenager at a time when music, theatre and films, literature, fashion and sexual liberation and political grassroots movements and alternative collective life forms challenged the established power structures. I, like people all over the globe, got a mental kick somewhere, and it will always remind me that there is, of course, a better alternative than the status quo. But 1968 also taught me that as a human being you must do whatever you want as long as you do not restrict the other's freedom space. I think that this is something absolutely crucial to bear in mind, in other words, that we are also thinking that the space of freedom of our future generations should not be challenged. On my desk there is one research report after another, and they document that we have exceeded the planet's pain limit on a large number of crucial parameters, in terms of both resource characteristics, biodiversity, extinction of species and emissions of CO2 As far as humans are concerned, the figures for loneliness, depression, mental vulnerability and stress have hardly been higher than they are today. In other words, today we are significantly overshadowing both the natural and human resources account. We see that everywhere in Denmark, and we see it in the world. The community of fate between us humans and nature has never been as clear as it is now. For both nature and us humans need to get out of the hamster wheel, a hamster wheel that we as a society have created ourselves. Everyone needs to get down at speed, down at consumption speed, down at work speed, down at performance pace, tempo, tempo, tempo. And then there are all the possible and impossible demands we make to ourselves, to be successful at work, in the family, in the circle of friends, demands, demands and demands again. The hamster wheel we're running around in has a devastating speed, and far too many gets thrown out and lands completely wrong. Those who manage to keep running faster and faster are so short of breath that it must be difficult for them to feel themselves or those around them. That is why in the Alternative we will work for a radically different Denmark • a Denmark where we do not work for the economy, but where the economy works for us; a Denmark where we have a completely different understanding of growth than the one our current GDP measures on. Or, as I said recently, when I was asked what the consequences of the alternative government programme would be for young people: it will mean that you will fly less and that you will have to kiss more. In other words, with consumption down and up with quality of life. Thus, in the alternative, we also challenge the interpretation of the concept of freedom, which has been dominating over the past many decades. We simply do not accept that the concept of freedom is largely limited to the freedom to become rich or the freedom to consume. For us, freedom is much more. It is freedom to live a safe life; freedom to have time for your children and those you love; freedom to get involved in the society of which you are a part; freedom to learn at the pace that suits you; freedom to unfold your creativity; freedom to enter nature; freedom to breathe fresh air and eat healthy, unspent food; freedom to make mistakes and learn from them. Yes, freedom to be who you are and live the life you want with those you love. Freedom for you, freedom for me, freedom for us. But that freedom is under pressure. Perhaps we do not feel it, but every time we allow the abuse of a single person's freedom, in principle we allow abuse of everyone's freedom. That's how I see it. What do you guys think? What the alternative sees is a green Denmark; a Denmark that takes the Paris Agreement and the UN's global goals seriously; a green forerunner country that inspires the world; a Denmark that dares to do what is necessary. That is also why our ambitions are so high: renewable energy in 2035, 100 percent organic farming in 20 years, 80 billion. kr. to the green transition for the next four years and a green superministerium setting the framework for all legislation. Only when we do something so ambitious can we call ourselves a green pioneering country. The Denmark that the Alternative sees is therefore a free, equal, creative and curious Denmark; a Denmark that stands on the shoulders of the results that were created more than 100 years ago when the citizens joined together in local meaningful working and interest communities and solved very concrete local challenges: whether it was creating the local cooperative abattoir, utility association, dairy, high school, waterworks, savings bank, newspaper or local free school. What the alternative sees is a decentralized and self-managing Denmark; a Denmark where we have freed our public institutions and thus the employees to take responsibility for themselves with all the skills and talents and experiences they have, where, for example, the individual primary and secondary education itself chooses their teaching and exam forms and social and cultural profiles aligned with the local environment they are part of. What Denmark sees as the alternative is a much more democratic Denmark, both economically and politically. That is why we want money out of politics, and that is also why we are concerned about developing other and far more democratic forms of business than those we know today. Or perhaps it is more to rediscover the strength of the democratic forms of enterprise that were the prerequisite for the Denmark we have today. to ensure better conditions for the next wave of cooperative and cooperative enterprises, where the common best is the motivation and driving force behind the decisions and priorities taken as a company or working community. Having these political ambitions for Denmark may sound completely unrealistic, especially considering the political majority in the Folketing today. But when I'm not a political pessimist anyway, what else can be every reason why we've just lived through a historically warm and dry summer, it's of course because I meet people, organizations, municipalities, companies outside Christiansborg, each in their own way taking on the necessary political leadership. It is you progressive grassroots, everyday activists, innovative entrepreneurs, green craftsmen, organic farmers, wise educators and teachers, visionary local politicians, community-led businessmen, serious researchers and challenging artists, and not least our young people who make me not a pessimist, but rather an optimist. For of course, we can create the Denmark we have earned if we just each take on our role as social architects. Let us together create a political and cultural mobilization characterized by profits, insight and vision, so that we strengthen the generous Denmark that this speech is dedicated to Denmark, where it is the highest and not the lowest common denominator we are going for, and where together with all of you we are going for power to change power, yes, where we are going for power to change power and share it with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150016	Thank you very much. We have a number of brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150020	Thank you, sir. Prime Minister Uffe Elbæk for the speech, because it was also a little for us. It was a lot for people outside, and it has to be, and it was very nice, but I assumed it was for us in here too. But it is clear that it is of course interesting to know how Mr. This is how Uffe Elbæk and the Alternative stand in relation to having their policies implemented, as we have now heard something about here today. A year ago, sir. Uffe Elbæk, on his way out of politics, had announced that he would leave the presidency of the Alternative and do other good things out in his country. But here, in June, at the end of June, I think it was Mr. Uffe Elbæk saw himself as Prime Minister's candidate. He also said on that occasion: "I am pointing at myself. The alternative points to ourselves. That is our agenda. And if it turns out that we cannot get that support in the population, then we are still not pointing either at Mette Frederiksen or Lars Løkke Rasmussen. ▪ Considering that things are changing, Mr. Uffe Elbæk out of politics, and now he wants to be prime minister, and then he says this in relation to other constellations, that neither one nor the other is pointed out. I just want to ask now, where we have come to October, whether it has changed or whether it is still there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150132	That is so important. I think, too, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has read and heard me say why we have made the decision we have made. We simply think it is too undemocratic and too poor if there are only two Prime Minister candidates. We are directly opposed to such a presidential election. That was the principle of democracy. And then we wanted there to be a Prime Minister's candidate party that had the green as the absolute top priority, in terms of how we understand the challenges that Denmark faces. So we are very much in favour of the resolution. It is absolutely right that I think we should all get out of here at some point. I would like to pass that on to the chairman of the Danish People's Party. But, of course, some people persuaded me to say that this is what is absolutely right for us to do, in the political reality we were in at the time, and I am very pleased with the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150232	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150233	But it has also had an effect. I saw here the other morning on TV 2 News that one took pains to have all the prime minister candidates in the studio and to comment on what would happen next. I do not think the Prime Minister was included, for it was the Prime Minister who gave the opening speech. But then it is both Mrs Mette Frederiksen and Mrs Pernille Skipper and Mr. Uffe Elbæk, who was coming. So in this way we have succeeded in coming forward on stage as Prime Minister's candidate. One might say that the difference between that and that, for example. Mrs Pernille Skipper, who is also Prime Minister's candidate, says, and so, sir. Uffe Elbæk says that Mrs Pernille Skipper says that they do not withdraw their mandates from the equation. Well, if there is no majority behind Mrs Pernille Skipper and you probably don't imagine that there will be someone else immediately, but as I understand it, that's what this DR article says. Uffe Elbæk, that if there is no support for Mr. Uffe Elbæk, you don't point to Mette Frederiksen or Lars Løkke Rasmussen. That is, it might be said, the crucial difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150332	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150333	Well, at least I'm really glad that Mr. Knox... Kristian Thulesen Dahl has read and fully understood what I have said. We have said that if we fail to get the key to the Prime Minister's Office, and with what we know today, with the statements that have come from the Prime Minister himself and Mrs Mette Frederiksen respectively, then we are neither parliamentary basis for one or the other. That is our position, and it is our assessment and our analysis that this is what it takes to break up the block policy we see in Denmark. There shouldn't just be a red and a blue block. There must also be a green one, and that is what we are standing on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150411	Then it's Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150412	I would also like to start by commending Mr. Uffe Elbæk for a nice speech and a speech that is addressed to the whole of Denmark. I would like to ask you a little further, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl did, but with a little more focus on the policy. For now it must be understood that neither the alternative nor any of the other opposition parties can influence foreign policy if Mette Frederiksen becomes Prime Minister. When it comes to the integration allowance and the cash aid ceiling, I would like to ask Mr. Uffe Elbæk: Is that something you will require to influence in the Alternative? Because I have to understand that you will not have any influence on the austerity or on foreign policy in general. So will you be thanking just for having to vote for social democracy's policy, or will you demand to have an influence on the ceiling on cash benefits and the benefits of integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150508-2	First of all, what our position is on the respective decisions, i.e. both the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit: we are opposed to them. If it were up to us, we would have to abolish the introduction of the three things mentioned. Then the questioner asks whether we will make it as a requirement for a possible Mette Frederiksen government. Again, we are not a parliamentary basis for either a Lars Løkke Rasmussen or a Mette Frederiksen government. This means, of course, that if it is Lars Løkke Rasmussen's government that continues, we will be serious about the policy pursued by that government and then we will vote against it if we disagree. The same will be true of Mette Frederiksen if she becomes Prime Minister. But, of course, I hope that the next Prime Minister is Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150608	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150609	You want me to understand this, sir? Uffe Elbæk will not use his mandates to support either government, no matter what? Because that is how I understand it, and that is also, alternatively, very interesting. And if sir... Mr Uffe Elbæk does not want it, so he does not want to withdraw his mandates, I just have to say: are there any issues that are so important to Mr Kellett-Bowman? Uffe Elbæk that he will
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150647	I believe that both Mrs Pernille Skipper and the Enhedslisten when they submitted their candidacy to the Prime Minister's post, and we ourselves do. Both parties do, and now I don't have to spend my time on the Enhedslisten, but I can just say that in the alternative, we are discussing a lot what our green lines are, that is, what will become a cardinal issue for us. Of course, we keep them close to the body. This is not something I share with the Danish Parliament. That would be a bad negotiating technique. But all parties have pain limits on what they want to do and what they do not want to do, and let us then take that conflict or debate when the time comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150728	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150732	Thank you. I'd like to thank you for your speech. It is quite true that in the Enhedslisten and the Alternative we have many similarities and very common policies. I would like to ask the rapporteur about the alternative's attitude to amending the penal code in the article on rape, so that we can have consent-based legislation instead of the definition of rape that we have today, which is more forced-based, and which is about the victim having to prove that he has actively refused. Fortunately, there are many parties in this Parliament who, like Enhedslisten, want legislation based on lack of consent. In the Enhedslisten, we want that legislation because, among other things, we want it. considers that it represents a higher level of equality. Therefore, I am interested to hear whether the Alternative agrees with Enhedslisten in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150824	Then Enhedslisten gets such a middle time answer, you might say, right? Because when Enhedslisten last tabled the resolution, we actually voted against it. We did so because there had been some very convincing arguments from the Court of Justice. Now we know that there will be a motion for a resolution again in the Chamber, and I know that there will be a conference here in October. Of course we will go to it and listen to it very, very seriously, because after we voted 'no' in the first place, as I know, there has been some rather convincing new knowledge on the table, among other things. from England, which says that it is actually appropriate to introduce this type of legislation. But it is a hell of a difficult area and there are a lot of doubts in the air. But I can promise Mrs Rosa Lund that we will go to the conference with great ears, and we are also ready to be convinced if that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150929	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150931	We will then look forward to seeing the alternative to the conference and then hope that you will end up voting in favour of our resolution, because today there is a huge problem of legal certainty for the victims. After all, there are far too few rape cases which are actually settled in a court of law, that is to say, which ever come so far. This is among other things. For this reason too, we want this consent-based legislation, and we are quite ready to put forward arguments that can convince the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004150959	I fully understand the intention of Enhedslisten. In other words, there is a problem with the number of rape cases that actually fall into conviction compared with other forms of crime. What has just been our uncertainty is whether it is the right way to do it. There have, of course, been at least legal persons, whom I very much appreciate, who have been very critical of it, among others. Professor Eva Smith, who says that this is not the way we should go, but that we should do all sorts of other things to ensure that our boys and girls, men and women understand each other's body language and respect each other's boundaries.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151039	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151042	Thank you. Thank you for your speech, which unfortunately was not directed at us in this Chamber, but at the audience. Of course, I'm sorry. I would like to say that almost as usual there was a lot of crisis theory, crisis me here and there and everywhere, I think I commented on that earlier, including to Mr Seligman. Uffe Elbæk. You get the impression that nothing goes better in Denmark than 10, 20, 30, 40 years or 50 years ago. I don't agree with that at all, sir. Uffe Elbæk in. I think there is a lot that goes much better than just 10 years and 20 years ago. After all, the climate crisis is one of the major themes of the alternative, and so is ecology, conversion to a hundred percent ecology in Danish Agriculture. It seems to me, at least I know, that the Concito, the so-called green think tank, has calculated that the conversion of Danish agriculture to ecology will mean 20-30 per cent. increased CO2 What is it actually that the alternative fights most for? Is it ecology, or is it nature and climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151149	Yes, I think what the questioner is referring to is a situation in which we imagine that conventional agriculture we have today will be organic tomorrow, which means that we have the same livestock farming as we do today. That is not what we want in the alternative. We want our meat production, our cattle production to be significantly reduced. In that scenario, both ecology and CO2 are hanging. That's our ambition. Distribute meat production and let us ensure that conventional farming becomes organic farming.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151228	Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151230	Thank you for your answer. It does not then give the same output. This then means that production must move somewhere else, possibly outside the EU and at least to a country that has a significantly higher impact on climate and the environment than we have in Denmark. But let it go. Then I would just like to follow up briefly on one point, sir. Uffe Elbæk had about food in his rapporteur's speech. That's why I'd like to know if Mr. Uffe Elbæk believes that Danish-produced foods are actually unhealthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151301	I think it is a problem that we use so many pesticides in our agriculture. There is no doubt about that. And the good news is that organic food products are the ones with the highest growth rate. So it may well be that it did not get into this Chamber, but it has certainly arrived in society. Society wants organic food, and I'm really, really happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151328	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151330	Thank you for that, and thank you for a fine speech by the rapporteur, which was probably a little expected, I think. I think we understand that the green agenda is very important for the alternative. As a society, however, we also have a responsibility for many other important agendas, such as: the welfare agenda. With more and more elderly people and children, it also presupposes that the necessary resources are included for more tasks, the so-called demographic trait. In the area of the elderly alone, we know that 6 billion will be missing. kr., if we are just to keep up with developments in relation to citizens who need care for the elderly or need health care. So I just want to ask whether the alternative will help to allocate the necessary resources to the care and care of more and more elderly people in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151426	I can answer that very quickly: yes. In the alternative, we assess everything on three bottom lines: the green, the social and the economic, and there must be black numbers on all three. What the questioner is focusing on here is the social bottom line: what are we doing in a society where we get more elderly people? How do we ensure better standards in our day care institutions? How do we ensure a better education system? All this, of course, is something that we take very seriously. In August we came with our government programme, and if the questioner has time and desire, you can look at it, and then you can see how much we actually prioritise the areas to which reference is made.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151509	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151511	I think that the rapporteur, now that we are standing here talking and rather than having to find the government programme rather than the alternative, would perhaps instead be kind enough to inform me of how we are going to solve the problem of demographic development in the area of the elderly. If the SF again puts forward a proposal in the Assembly that the necessary budget be set aside to follow demographic developments in relation to care for the elderly, i.e. 6 billion. Can I understand that the alternative will vote in favour of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151542	Yes, at first sight we want to deal with that problem in a rigorous manner. After all, we believe that welfare has been under pressure and also under unnecessary pressure. We are totally opposed to the government's 2-percent savings in a number of areas, and we will do away with that. That is also why I said to another questioner in relation to cash aid and to integration benefits and the 225-hour rule that we want to bring it back to what it was and we take it seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151616	Then it is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151617	Thank you for that, and thank you very much for your speech. After all, the alternative has presented a 38-point plan in the next Denmark, and since the parliamentary elections are approaching, the Danes will soon have to decide where to cross. That is why I have an in-depth question for one of the proposals. Proposal 21 is about the so-called curiosity year. Every 10 years, everyone on the labour market should be able to take one year off to train or to be thoughtful. In this context, I would like to hear what the alternative is about what it will mean for all the hard-working sosus, nurses, teachers, doctors who are already saying that they will be very busy if one in ten of their colleagues suddenly leaves them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151710	First of all, I would just like to clarify what kind of paper is being referred to. It is a discussion paper which the Alternative has made and which says that if we do not think about the economy, if we do not think about it today, but think about it in 30, 40 years' time, what kind of questions are we going to raise? And that's where we suggest a curiosity year, and who doesn't want it? I know that Gallup studies have almost been carried out on this, and the Danes would like a year of curiosity. And that is not something that has been rocked science; that is what you look at a large number of jobs, that is that when you have been at a job for 6, 7, 8 years, it is written into the contract that you have 1⁄2 years of continuing training. So what we want is a Denmark that is organized in such a way that we continue to become wiser throughout our lives. And that's what was in the paper. That is what we want in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151811	Mrs. Merete Scheelsbeck.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151812	Thank you. Well, who doesn't want half a year off to do what you want? I would just like to know how it is to be financed. I mean, it's gonna cost a two or three-digit billion to get this thing done. Then you can say that it is just visionary and something you think you might want to do and want to work towards. But if the voters are to deal with it, they must be allowed to be able to relate to how you will finance it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151836	Yes, but what I just want to say in all humility and respect for others is that, as I said, a discussion paper on how we could imagine Denmark looking in 30 years' time is being referred to. In other words, if it were a question of the government programme that we would have come out with in August, which said what would happen if we had the keys to the Prime Minister's Office, then it would be quite all right to ask that question. But I am so old that at the end of the 1980s I have seen that during a period of high unemployment, the social partners carried out a programme called Allow leave and where people who were in work left their job function, whereas the unemployed came in and were allowed to take over it. This was something that the social partners organized together, and it is probably something that this will also be about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151927	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004151929	Thank you, sir. President. I'd like to sign for mr. Uffe Elbæk's speech on particular environmental policy biodiversity, emissions of CO2 These are, of course, some things on which I do not think any parties in the Danish Parliament should be patented. After all, no one is in favour of more pesticides and less ecology. Actually, I think it's exactly the other way around for most people. But I have noticed that in connection with the announcement on 26 June that Mr. Uffe Elbæk went after Prime Minister's post, you could read on Twitter I saved it that day, because I actually thought it was a little fun: Upcoming parliamentary term is the last chance if we were to slow down climate change. That's why we're pointing to Uffe Elbæk as our prime minister candidate. We want power and we want power to change. But what they say is that this is the last chance if we in Denmark want to change the climate. That's where I'll just ask, sir. Uffe Elbæk: What if it fails to become Prime Minister? Is it then completely lost • the whole green transition and renewable energy and the way Denmark develops green innovative jobs etc.? Is it lost if you don't win the election? Because that's what we can read.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152045	Thank you, and that is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152046	Well, then I'd say it's probably a little tight editing. But at least what was in the message was that science says that within the next four-year reign, all the decisive decisions must be made in that we do not tip this globe off the edge. And that means that it really is, regardless of whether I become prime minister or not. The Prime Minister, who will be sitting in the Prime Minister's Office, will be sitting in a parliamentary term in which we will have to make absolutely crucial priorities in the green area, and that is what was meant by that twitter message.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152120	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152122	Well, I mentioned the twitter message from the alternative press service, and two minutes later someone came from Mr. Uffe Elbæk himself, but almost with the same text, and it says: I am running for Prime Minister in the next parliamentary elections, because the next parliamentary term is the last chance if we are to curb climate change Well that is also quite right...) No, no, I have a little speaking time yet, thank you! There it is, sir. Uffe Elbæk himself, who made the blossoming words that this is the last chance. The rest of us are accused of having hijacked Dannebrog, but apparently Uffe Elbæk has brought both sun, moon and stars to campaign Thank you!), and I think that may be a little too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152201	Thank you! It is good that we have someone to control the word, with the enthusiasm that is here. I now give the floor to the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152206	I like it. It's really good! That is what democratic debate is about, and it is just as it should be. No, it is not about whether or not I will be Prime Minister at the next elections, but what is seriously involved is that within the next four years the Danish Parliament, the Prime Minister who is now once, will have to make absolutely decisive decisions about a green transformation of Denmark, otherwise the consequences are completely incalculable. And luckily, I think, with what is happening right now, you can, among other things. with the government's proposal about electric cars, for example, or the adoption text that the opposition has put forward, notice that the green ambitions are so far on the right track, namely up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152257	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152258	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I noticed we're going to fly less and kiss more. And as a father of five, even for little kids, it's not going to be so much flying, and the kissing thing I'd love to do. But that does not mean that it is the alternative that should be voted on. However, it is quite clear now that the alternative is with a Prime Minister's candidate. Then I'm just curious about the green lines, by the way. Because it can't be that you don't want to tell the viewers, the focus group sitting in the gallery, or us in this Chamber what the green lines are and what they are about?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152346	Well, I think that every party has some political pain limits on what you want to do or what you don't want to do. That discussion is taking place in all parties. Some call it red lines. If you cross that line, we have to say no. With all the symbolism, we say that with us are the green lines. As I said, we keep the green lines to ourselves. We are quite ready to compromise on a lot of things, that is, that is what democracy is about, but there is something so important for a party that they say: here and no longer. That's what we call green lines.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152430	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152431	But the curiosity is there. Sir. Uffe Elbæk hasn't imagined that the voters shouldn't be involved in this or is it just something going on in the focus groups? Is it the question of quota refugees that is the green line? Is it the question of the ceiling on cash benefits that is the green line? What are the green lines? I think so, sir. Uffe Elbæk owes it to the focus group, who is now sitting up there in the gallery, and the viewers and the rest of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152510	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152512	I'm gonna be really happy, there's a focus group. That's amazing. No, we don't have focus groups in the alternative. We simply do not use focus groups. I think it is some Members who are sitting up there, and it is wonderful that they want to participate and hear an opening debate. Welcome to you. When it comes to the questions put by the questioner, I understand that the questioner raises the questions, but he just does not get an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152542	Then it's Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152543	Good afternoon, sir. Uffe Elbæk. I would like to ask the alternative's position on the import of foreign labour. Because I was sitting at home on my couch on Tuesday night and watching this party leader debate, and I wondered when Uffe Elbæk agreed that it should be easier and cheaper to import, for example. cleaning workers from the Philippines and Bangladesh, and also argued to lower this limit. In my view, the employers' desire is one thing: to increase the pressure on wages here in Denmark. And the alternative and Enhedslisten have, together, rejected a large number of so-called reforms, which, as I see it, have had exactly the same purpose: to increase the supply of labour, to create more fierce competition for the jobs that are here, among employees, and to press wages. In fact, we have gone in the opposite direction and have said that we think there was a need for a shorter working week. There is no need to expand the supply of work. Therefore, I would like to ask what it is that makes the alternative think that there is a need to make it cheaper to import labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152701	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152702	Surely the question is not whether there is a need to import labour that is cheaper. As I said, I took part in the debate on Tuesday, and I was standing with Mr Tugendhat. Kristian Jensen, on the one hand, and Mr. Anders Samuelsen on the other. It was very unfamiliar for me to stand exactly with that support. But I did, because I actually think that the initiative that has come from the government is right. I think that we should take the needs of companies seriously, provided that we take care of them, and that is what is important to emphasise for the Alternative that we have agreements, that is to say that we fully comply with the rules of the Danish labour market as we know it today. That is the one thing that needs to be said. The second thing to say is that we must of course train all the good citizens who live in Denmark today and who do not have a job. Of course, we must make sure that we do special training courses, internships, what I know. But I'm just taking business needs seriously. That's why I agreed, and I'm still gone. I agree with what the government has come up with. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152814	Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152815	In other words, because employers say employers also say that we must raise the pensionable age. I know the alternative doesn't think it would be a very wise idea. I certainly do not think that employers will agree very much that we should reduce the weekly time we work. I remember that the alternative pointed out in the past that analyses show that we are going to lose a great many jobs. 800,000, the alternative referred to, with the risk of massive unemployment. So why is it that you suddenly think we're gonna need a lot of manpower? I think we should be critical of this when employers say that they are missing it. They can't prove it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152858	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152859	I fully agree with Mrs Stine Brix that, of course, we should not just take what a given company says for good. However, I am impressed by the fact that great things I find to be credible and trusting organisations such as the United Kingdom. HORESTA goes out and says that our companies have these jobs. We're offering them. We can't get any. That is why they also want to be able to employ foreign workers. I actually feel very, very good that we live in a city, Copenhagen, where the Folketing is located, where one in five of the citizens of Copenhagen was born outside Denmark. It's a nice town. So I have no problem getting foreign labour in, not at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152949	Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004152950	Thank you. A large part of Mr. Uffe Elbæk's speech was about freedom. I think that is a good thing, and I agree with that. But I'd like to ask Mr. Uffe Elbæk, where the alternative thinks the money should come from for all that freedom. According to the policy of the Alternative, we should not have too much growth, we should not work too hard, we should not move around the world, and trade with other countries would also like to set limits. So how are we supposed to afford all this freedom? Where's the money coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153022-2	You almost want to say that we have to work less and kiss something more and consume less and uha, it will be a nice Denmark. But the important thing is that there are black figures on the economic bottom line. In the government programme that we have presented, we have clearly indicated crown-by- kroner how our Finance Act should be coherent. For example, we want to tax property more than we do today. We will tax wealth and inheritance. We will tax financial transactions. We want to bring forward the taxation of the pension payments that we all pay in, etc. etc. We have a full funding plan. It will never happen that we go down to the Chamber with a proposal that is not funded.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153122	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153123	Well, it's great to hear it, because socialism is glowing. In Denmark we have the world's highest tax burden, and if we continue to have it, Mr. Uffe Elbæk, that we can still have growth, and that we can still have somewhere the money comes from. They can only come from somewhere, and it's from private business. With another thing that Uffe Elbæk spoke a lot about, the good old days were a hundred years ago. As I know of the good old days, you worked from morning to night, and you worked really hard because you didn't have the technology we have today. You were worn out a lot earlier. How does this relate to the policy of the Alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153208	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153209	I am a little unsure about what the questions were actually going on. But I can say that we really want a much more equal Denmark than what we see today. The problem today is that working doesn't make you rich. You get rich from owning. One of the biggest problems is the factor of inequality, for example. has in the residential area. Do you own a home, or don't you? So we go in and want a more equal Denmark. From the heart, that's what we want. Then the questioner calls it socialism. I do not care what we call it, as long as there are positive figures on both the green and the social and the economic bottom lines. We need to develop a new economic model for the future of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153256	Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153257	When I hear sir... Uffe Elbæk today, I actually come to think of Barack Obama's speech at the Democrats' Party Convention in June 2008, when Barack Obama said that you would remember the time when the oceans would start to retreat and the planet would heal. See, I'm not quite sure that's how it went, but now we've got Mr. Kim. Uffe Elbæk on the field, so it may be that Mr. Uffe Elbæk can do that job. But anyway, when I ask about this, it's because mr. Uffe Elbæk says that Mr. Uffe Elbæk is a prime minister candidate. I just need to understand, sir. Uffe Elbæk has said, quite right. The alternative does not support any government. If that's the way it's supposed to be... Uffe Elbæk cannot become Prime Minister that the block that has the largest majority outside the Alternative is the block that forms the government? Is it such a form of voluntary isolation, sir? Uffe Elbæk has chosen to place the alternative in the same way as the Swedish Democrats in Sweden, just on a voluntary basis, or how can that be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153400	No, the way to understand it is that with the knowledge we have today, we want to be opposition both to a given social democratic government and to a given Left Government. It is true, and it has also been mentioned in many media, that after an election, when you count the mandates up, if it is not the alternative that gets the opportunity to form a government, there is a likelihood that Lars Løkke Rasmussen will be the negotiating leader. Does this mean that Lars Løkke Rasmussen might become prime minister? It's not safe at all. What I think is exciting right now, when you look both at what is happening in Sweden and elsewhere in the world, is that there is a complete break-up. Our ambition is to break up these blocks and simply force through what could almost be called a political disruption by taking on that role, and we stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153453	Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153455	So it has to be understood in the sense that Mr. Uffe Elbæk will not support anyone, but Mr. Uffe Elbæk would like to express distrust of some. Is that how it's supposed to be understood? For that is a rather strange and baroque way of seeing the work of the Danish Parliament, that is, that one would be against some; one would not be for others, but one would just like to be against.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153516	When we point to ourselves, it is because we think that we have the best political programme and that that is what should define Denmark's direction forward-looking. If there is no support for this in the population, then we are simply saying that we are going into opposition, regardless of who else is forming government, with the knowledge we have today. Does this mean that we do not want to work firmly in the Chamber? Of course we will. We will negotiate, we will settle etc. But no one can take our mandates for granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153551	Then it's mr. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153552	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Uffe Elbæk for the speech. That is not the speech from the alternative to an opening debate or a final debate that I have most disagreed with. It's been a lot worse. We have a common foundation in valuing voluntary Denmark as the one that created Denmark. That makes me, sir. Uffe Elbæk refers to the cooperative movement, the high school movement, the post-schools and the free schools, to ask whether the alternative supports the positive developments that have taken place for the free schools in Denmark in recent years when the coupling rate has been increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153641	We've already done that. We believe that free schools play a crucial role in the way we think about education and learning in Denmark. It is the same with the high schools and the post-schools. For us, it is an important institution and an important way of organising our school system. Having said that, we also have ambitions on behalf of the primary school. Basically, I want the individual primary schools to have the same degree of freedom as the free schools. I would very much like us to free the public sector and thus the institutions, and it is down to school level so that the schools themselves can define the forms of examinations and teaching, as I also said in my speech. I want a much, much more freer Denmark, of course within the framework of solidarity that we believe in in the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153739	Sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153742	It is quite conscious that I am pointing this out, because I could of course also have pointed to some of the points on which I disagree directly, but we then focus on the positive aspects of the co-operation of the people's government. This means that the alternative supports what the government has done with the coupling rate, which improves the possibility of having free schools. The alternative disagrees with the other parties in the red bloc, who have so much criticised it, and, last but not least, the alternative supports the government's public school proposal on the self-serving rights of government, which is an attempt in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153824	I think it was mostly a statement. I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153832	Then it's mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153833	Thank you for a very loud speech about dreams and freedom. I am a little curious: are there not limits to diversity and to freedom? Where's the limit? Everything straight? Isn't something better than anything else? I would really like the rapporteur to be a little more specific about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153858	Well, our legislation is the limit. That's all it is. We have some common ground rules in Denmark that we have decided in this Chamber, and that is what defines how we as a society organise ourselves and how we behave and how we act. That's what's the limit for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153916	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153917	Specifically: Should an Islamist have Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153922-2	We have some very clear rules on how to become a national of Denmark, and I stand absolutely vigilant about them. I don't quite know what the questioner indicates. But what I will always stand up for is the decisions that are being made in this room. That is what defines our common ground rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153945	The last brief comment is to be made by Mr Seligman. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004153948	When you followed the debate here, I thought it was again developing into that personal question, to which everything like should be boiled down: who should be Prime Minister? I sometimes think it might be more interesting what kind of policy should be pursued. That's why I really want to hear Mr. Uffe Elbæk and the alternative of what is the consideration behind the errand that I share, namely that we break up the block policy. Just today we have seen the right and the left unite in putting up a wall around Denmark so that we cannot have foreign labour, in a scepticism about European cooperation. There is every reason to break up with block policy. But in the end, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk says: with the knowledge we have today, it is probably about missing a political path that is pointing forward and that is actually heading towards some of the visions, and if it appears, it is probably the political direction that is crucial, and not the question of individuals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004154043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004154044	Yes, of course. Perhaps not surprisingly, I agree with Mr. Morten Østergaard in relation to this problem. It is, of course, the political issue that is crucial. That is also why, with the announcements that have been made so far from Mette Frederiksen and Lars Løkke Rasmussen respectively, I stress that if we do not succeed in our government project, then our position is that neither of the two parties can use us as a parliamentary basis. That's what it looks like today's date. What it looks like after an election, we'll see. I just hope that, among other things. Radical Left wanted to come over to us and become part of a green position, and that other good parties in this Parliament came over to us and formed a different position than red or blue.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004154135	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004154136	But it is, of course, that mysterious things are happening in politics. Suddenly the government wants a million electric cars, and Mr. Uffe Elbæk is bubbling into enthusiasm. By the way, I did the same myself, I thought it was a very good move. And today, in common with the opposition, we manage to formulate some things that we might not have expected just a week ago. What I am really just saying is that it is a question of striving for one's mandates to be talked to; that they can be used for something as an indication that the political direction is right. That is what must be the aim: to drive the political project forward, and then we must see who will have the fine titles.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004154211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004154212	Yes, of course. But we must therefore discuss this in the specific context. I can't stand here and say much else. I am very pleased that the opposition parties have today agreed on a common text. It's really good impact that's in it. I am glad that it is a more equal Denmark, a more solidarity Denmark, a Denmark that will be wise, and then finally a Denmark that will be green. I'm really, really happy about that. So I focus on politics. If you can reach each other, it's great. If you can't, you go somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004154246	We thank you very much, sir. Uffe Elbæk. We're done with the questioning round. And we welcome Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004154256	I was in Kolding on Friday. The city buzzed with pride because it was Obamatime. There were Barackburgers, and there were Michellecookies. There were people on the street who were Danish and American flags in the flag poles. The whole town was sitting by the prospect of hearing the President's words. After all, Obama repeated what he said earlier, namely that Denmark is fighting over its weight class. I remember that the Prime Minister was in the White House at one point and was joking that Obama said this allegedly about all the Nordic countries, but that we should not be less proud of it for that reason. When I came to think of it, it is because I thought that I heard a little of the same pride in the opening speech on Tuesday, i.e. the pride that Denmark is part of the European Union that has brought peace and prosperity to generations in a way that our ancestors could only dream of when they were in the trenches and shot each other; the pride that Denmark has shown the world the way in the fight against climate change, most recently with the energy settlement, where we took the final decisive steps towards all the power coming out of the outlet and all the heat that is in the radiator coming from renewable sources of energy; the pride of enhanced cooperation on integration with the social partners, who have given more refugees a chance to get to work; and pride that our companies are no longer looking for customers, but instead looking with light and light for employees, so they should not say no to orders. Well, there's a lot to be proud of, and I really think the Prime Minister can be proud of his speech. It sounded rather radical in several places too, perhaps because the Prime Minister avoided the things he is probably not so proud of: joy over the internal market, yes, but not a word about the seemingly entrenched border barriers; pleasure in the success of refugees in the labour market, but not a word about handshaking and fines for mayors who do not touch new citizens in the rightful state-declared fashion; the need for foreign labour to be spoken up while interventions against international students at the universities of the country are dashed down; good words about children and young people, but not one sentence about massive educational savings and educational ceilings; jewelry law, integration allowance, stop for quota refugees are not mentioned in a word. And I actually understand very well why the Prime Minister does not mention these things, because frankly, these are not things that should be proud of. Nor was the burka ban mentioned otherwise when the Danish Parliament held an opening debate one year ago, 85 times, I think we have been counted. When the debate started, neither the Left nor the Social Democrats were in favour of a ban, but both parties did so when the debate ended. Why? Because Danish politics all too often ends up being a competition to invent symbol politics that can make the Danish People's Party happy. Recently Mrs Mette Frederiksen drew a parallel to the film pearl Zappa and compared Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl with the movie Mulle, who had to eat a forest snail to get his Moroccan pillow. But Mrs Mette Frederiksen somehow got it all upside down, for who is it that eats forest snails to be allowed to sit softly on ministerial taboos or to get closer to them? I guess it's the Social Democracy and the Left. We've even heard sir. Martin Henriksen says that Dansk Folkeparti has a whole list, a whole menu of forest snails, which one will serve one for one for the Left and the Social Democratic Party now that the burka ban has come along. But, but, but perhaps there is light ahead, for today everyone says no to Dansk Folkeparti's demand for an integration stop and scraping of the successful integration basic education so look there, be a little proud of yourselves, you can do it! We Radicals want a completely new direction for Denmark. We have presented a plan that we have called "Fremad!" with 132 real, funded solutions to the problems of reality, which is our navigation chart for which direction a new government should set and where the ship should sail. Because we're not putting a new ship in the lake until we agree on the direction. These are our demands, no more and no less. Denmark not only needs a new captain, we also need a new course, and that is the direction towards a greener, a freer and a stronger Denmark. Where does it start? It starts with our kids. Before the babies that come into the world this year are old enough to vote, it may actually turn out to be too late. Experts believe that we have 17 years before the damage to the planet is irrecoverable 17 years! What are we going to say to our children, those who are born this year and can vote in 18 years' time? Well, the water in the tap may taste a bit of chlorine, because we didn't get it taken care of, and your life gets cut off by those poisonous particles you breathe when you bike down to your high school or your vocational school, but you got meatballs every day in kindergarten, and you never meet a single one with burka when you walk on the street. That's the answer to our children and grandchildren... black symbol policy instead of green action. But it is not if it is for the Radical Left. We want to reduce our CO2 by 2030. We welcome the fact that the government has taken over our goal of 1 million electric cars on the roads. And when the government then lacks the courage to do away with agriculture's CO2 because if we dare, we can get a greener Denmark. As Radicals, we also believe that our children deserve a better start to life. We want 4,500 more educators, so no one gets to stand alone on Tuesday afternoon with 17 kids in a day care center. Our primary school has too many rules and too little money, so we will give greater local freedom and 1 billion. kr. more to the school every year, so that students can get movement every day, a varied teaching and at least once a week get out to visit a museum, a business or a trip out into the wild. When our education saves and saves, school and education stays longer. And for us, it is crucial that it is possible to train all over the country for the rest of our lives, and that requires priority. That is also why we find it difficult to understand that we had to go all the way to an election year before the Social Democratic Party gave up the educational ceiling and the government began to consider the wisdom of continuous savings in education. We can and must do better, guys. We dare, we can make Denmark stronger. But it doesn't come by itself. Denmark lacks acutely skilled people who can take hold. If we are to be able to afford better growth, better education, more green conversion, we need to make it possible for companies to pick up the people abroad that we lack here at home. Everything else becomes hypocrisy. For Denmark not primarily lacks money, but people to our businesses, to nursing homes, to hospitals. And the question is how long the Social Democracy, the Danish People's Party and the Left will gamble with the well-being of the Danes. On Sunday, the 75th anniversary of the rescue of the Danish Jews during World War II was marked in many places. It is a chapter of the history of Denmark, which many are rightly proud of; a humanitarian heritage that has contributed to the image of Denmark in the world and is doing so to this day, just as quota refugees and high development aid have contributed to the image of a country which, in Obama's words, is fighting over its weight class. Four days after the memorial, the government today says no to quota refugees for another year, with the support of the Social Democratic Party. One week later, by Monday at the latest, 13-year-old Mint from Køge is to be separated from her mother and younger brother, because the Danish authorities believe that she should live with her schizophrenic and violent father in Thailand. And in the Soulsmark Boxes there are more and more children and their families, currently 93 children • children whose parents have been denied asylum but who cannot be sent out. It is 93 children who are not even allowed to own their own toys and whose families do not have their own toilet, refrigerator or permission to cook themselves and they live there for years. The Prime Minister said in his opening speech that he would give all children the best opportunities for a good life. And Mrs Mette Frederiksen will also do more for the children. But get on with it! The pitiful lives of these children stir up not pride but pettiness. This is not an example of fighting above your weight class, but rather of hitting below your belt. That is why Denmark needs a new direction. That is why we have given the Danes a guarantee. We only support a new government that makes itself independent of the Danish People's Party's policy, because it makes a difference whether the next government in Denmark is based on the Radical Left or on the Danish People's Party's Party's policy on climate change, European policy, integration policy, education policy. The crucial question is: should we keep fighting over our weight class, or should we rather hit below the belt? Should it be pride, or should it be petty? I have no doubt. And dare we, we can set a new course for Denmark • not sharp to the right, not soft to the left, but that way, and it is forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155340	Then there are a number of brief comments. We'll start with sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155347	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Morten Østergaard for the speech. After all, I can fully confirm what was the point in Mr. Simpson's report. Morten Østergaard's speech, namely that there is a difference between establishing a majority in which the Danish People's Party is involved or establishing a majority in which the Radical Left is involved. On a number of crucial issues that are important to the Danes, especially on the issue of foreigners and in the debate on values, it is clear that there is a crucial difference. Therefore, there is also great interest in what is going to happen, depending on how a choice comes out. In Berlingske on 21 August, Mr. Morten Østergaard has some thoughts about it, and I just need to know whether it is still in effect here at the beginning of October, or whether something might have changed. Sir. Morten Østergaard says: "Before our mandates can be counted, there must be a political agreement that ensures that we not only have a new government but also have a new political direction for Denmark. This direction will differ markedly from what the Danes will get if the Danish People's Party is the basis for a government,... Morten Østergaards asked if he, if she and Mette Frederiksen reject such an agreement, would say to the Queen that he expresses distrust of Mette Frederiksen at the first assembly. Mr. Morten Østergaard: Yes. Is it still out of control here at the beginning of October?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155502	I repeat in my speech here that yes, there must be an agreement on the direction in which we are going, because what is not going to work is what we have seen today. That's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who supports a government but fundamentally disagrees with its policy and who stands here on the platform and looks down at the Prime Minister and says: I am your best friend, for I have prevented you from conducting your policy. It's not responsible, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and that is why we take responsibility so seriously that we only support governments whose policies we can fundamentally support. Therefore, yes, we will know the policy beforehand and know what direction it is going in before we can get our support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155541	Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155542	Thank you for the clear answer, and then a supplementary question: when it is important for Mr. Morten Østergaard to say to the Danes that exactly where the written agreement has a clear meaning, there is where it separates the policy from what the Danish People's Party otherwise influences in particular, it is because it is largely foreign policy, Mr. Morten Østergaards is thinking of, that is to say, the policy of values and foreigners, which is crucial in terms of having a written agreement that assures the Radical Left that there is a new political course for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155617	I think that both in this context and in general Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl too narrow. Well, it's not done with it at all. There is a difference between European policy and the risk that the cooperation that has been built up over generations will go up in the glue, if you follow the trail on them, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl with admiration looks out to in Europe: Orban in Eastern Europe or Nigel Farage in Britain. That's the worry. It is also a concern if we continue to cut back on education, as has been done in the Finance Act with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's involvement. This is the concern that it is not possible to say that climate change is believed to be man-made and is therefore foot-to-mouth in the green transition and yes, refugees and integration policy, the way we live together. These are all issues that need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155707	Then it's Mrs. Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155710	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good, a green and an open speech. Morten Østergaard also mentions quota refugees. Sir. Morten Østergaard actually sounds sincere when he talks about quota refugees, which is why I am a little surprised that quota refugees are not mentioned at all in this proposal for adoption, because, as I remember, it was mentioned earlier in the proposals for adoption which the Radical Left has supported. So I'd like to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard: If quota refugees mean so much to the Radical Left we have heard earlier from the Enhedslisten and the Alternative... how can it be that there is no mention of quota refugees in the proposal for adoption today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155754	If we had known that it was today that the government would take the opportunity to say that it is not possible to receive quota refugees next year, it may well have given rise to those considerations. We didn't know that in advance. I do not think anyone is in any doubt about what we mean. What I find amazing is that when you listened to the Prime Minister's opening speech, there was a lot of talk about how few refugees come to Denmark. I think it is remarkable that the quota refugee system was created by a former President of the Left who became the UN refugee Commissioner, Poul Hartling. I didn't agree with sir. Anders Fogh Rasmussen about quite a lot of his foreign policy, but every year, and even with the goodwill of the Danish People's Party, quota refugees were taken while he was prime minister. That is why I have to say: I think it is poor of the Left that it is not now thought that the time is right to take quota refugees. You throw wrecks, not just on Denmark's traditions, but in fact on the traditions of your own party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155858	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155900	Thank you for a clear answer. I'm gonna change the subject here, sir. Morten Østergaard said earlier that he would make a clear demand to Mrs Mette Frederiksen, if she were to become Prime Minister, that an increased economic space should be created. I have not been able to get answers from the Social Democratic Party on economic policy today. I still need to see an overall economic plan, so I would like to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard: What action does Mr. Mr Morten Østergaard (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004155941	We're not picky. We are, in fact, willing to discuss both withdrawal and, above all, foreign labour, which in some way seems the most obvious in the situation we are in, because it works faster, so it works here and now and, at the same time, it does not, it can be said, require someone who lives in this country in advance to actually do something other than welcome new colleagues. So we come up with a large number of proposals, and the Social Democrats must, of course, even if what they are going to vote on, but the challenge does not run anywhere, and if all the good intentions are to be met, there must be greater economic room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160023	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160027	Thank you. It is not so long ago that Radicals came up with this major game with the very captivating title "FREMAD', as was also said from the platform. There is also a lot about cash aid, and I would actually like to start by commending Radicals for wanting to abolish poverty benefits and also providing a clarification guarantee to people. That is something that we in the Enhedslist also very much agree with. But there is something that worries me, and it is that Radicals seem to have thought that all cash aid recipients under 30 years of age should be declared automatic job preparation, because what is that really going to mean for these people? If all young people are going into business practice and job testing and taking advantage of jobs and all that, I am really afraid that these young people who are already having serious problems will become more stressed and exhausted and that more of them will lose their cash benefits and will simply become even more poor. I do not think that is a proper approach to other people, and we also saw at the end of 2012 how the reform of the social security system in which Radicals were involved meant that very many young people simply became homeless because they lost their income overnight. That is why I would like to hear from the Radicals how they will prevent the hard-pressed young people from getting even more caught up if they are put on such a stamp of being ready for work when they really are not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160154	I assume that Mrs Eva Flyvholm knows that if you are young under 30 years of age and do not have an education, you cannot now be ready for work at all, that is, the category does not exist. It is not possible to be declared ready for work, and it is a pity that you are in the cash assistance system and have been told that you were actually ready to take an education, but that you are not motivated or able to find your way in it and for years you are on cash benefits, that you then do not shift the effort to get to work. Similarly, we can see that for those who are then called ready for activity, i.e. understood that there is something else to do before you can get into work, we can see that the quality of the offers they get is not at all equal to what you get if you are in the second category, i.e. as the older ones are, the type of activation there is, wage subsidy jobs and other. So for me, this is about one thing, and that is that the cash assistance system is a place to be as short as possible, and if you have problems of such a more fundamental nature, mental illness and such things, then I think that it is new, improved processes of resources that should be the way. If you are in the cash assistance system, I believe that the task is to ensure that you get into training or work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160310	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160312	But the reality is, in many of the municipalities, that it is estimated that many of these unemployed people have other problems than just unemployment, that they have just these social problems. That is why we now have the criterion of readiness for activity. I would like to ask Radicals: do you imagine that these people will have to be put down in service if they can no longer receive activity grants and just have to go straight to job preparation? Will the performance be turned down?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160342	Our game isn't about the performance. Our proposal is about the effort alone, and I think it is a paradox that you cannot be declared ready for work, that it is better that you do not get started with an education for years and go on cash aid, and I also think that it sounds a little hollow. Now we have heard Enhedslisten today be very sceptical about foreign labour, because we need to get those who are in the country to work first, and then we should not be able to declare jobs as young people on cash aid. That's a paradox. After all, we cannot both say no to foreign labour, and then say that the young people who are in the cash aid system should not get to work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160419	Sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160420	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard, of the Radical Left, presented a literally radical agricultural proposal before the summer recess, and Mr. Morten Østergaard and I also exchanged comments on this in the closing debate earlier this year. The Radical Left is actually proposing to take one third of all agricultural land out of operation in Denmark, and the last time we exchanged words about it, I think I estimated it to have a price of approx. 90 billion kr. Now the Ministry of the Environment and Food has priced it at least 32 billion. kr., and that is quite a lot of money, and then you can add reduced export earnings and lost jobs etc. Where is it that the Radical Left will find all that money?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160512	You are tempted to wait a few months, because if it has gone from 90 billion. kr. to 32 billion. kr. Over the summer break, it might be worth breathing and seeing what the price is actually going to be at the end. Anyway, I think it is interesting to see the aid package for the agriculture that has shown since the end of the debate how vulnerable it is to climate change. After a very dry summer, there are a great many farmers who have difficult problems with the economy, and it really shows that there are many who are on the verge of it and that we therefore need more sustainability, not only in the environmental but also in the economic sense. What, then, was agreed by the government and which I think we will agree to then? That's how you wanted to spend $100 or $125 million. kr., I think it was, taking out vulnerable soils. So in the time that has passed since we last discussed it, the Liberal Alliance has agreed to the thinking. We have taken the first step with the aid package that has been made; for 125 million. kr. soil must be taken. And that is what we are proposing, that is to say, to continue year by year. Where's the money coming from? Yes, we prefer to use agricultural subsidies for that, but otherwise we will have to find other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160622	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160623	Thanks for the answer, or whatever to say it is. Another part of the Radical Left's agricultural proposal is to convert another third of our agricultural area into ecology. And I do not know whether the Radical Left thinks they are better than, for example. Arla to assess what the market share of ecology is. However, I am aware that Arla is not currently taking in new organic milk producers because we are drowning in organic milk in a more or less literal sense. So maybe it'd be nice to hear about Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard believes that we in the Danish Parliament and Mr. Morten Østergaard himself and the Radical Left are better at predicting market developments than for example. Arla and other food producers are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160715	Well, I think if you look at it over time, the demand for organic products has only gone one way. Nevertheless, as I also said in my speech, it is in the programme we have just presented that we want the two thirds of agriculture that remain, that it is poison-free and that it is climate-friendly. We are fully aware that there are a number of conventional farmers who are actually making strenuous efforts to become more circular and to become more climate-friendly and reduce their consumption of pesticides, and therefore, it can be said, our objective is actually overall for the two thirds that they are climate-friendly from an overall point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160754	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160756	Thank you for that and also thank you on behalf of the SF for some fine visions in the green area and on behalf of the children. These are priorities that the SF shares. You can't reach everything in 10 minutes, so I think that there may also be room to ask some questions about what is about the last part of life. Well, Dorte recently had a night shift where she had to perform duties on 81⁄2 hours searched elderly care, and then she had to drive 125 km besides it. She had to do all that in eight hours. This is how the pressure looks in the care of the elderly day after day. That's how Dorte's gonna work until she's 72 years old, by the way. It's not realistic. So I would very much like to hear what the Radicals are saying about the many professionals who are working hard and who are being worn out when it is the case that a retirement age of 72 years is being maintained. Is it the case that the Radicals want to help reduce the retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004160859-2	No, we do not have a proposal to reduce the retirement age, but if we are asked precisely about the worn out, we are the party in the Folketing which has the most lenient policy. We will, of course, allow people who are no longer able to take care of their work without further work tests to retire five years before retirement age, even before the present retirement age. It is because we can see that there are some for whom the generally rising life expectancy does not apply in the same way. There are some who are unable to fit their work to the retirement age which is gradually becoming higher. That is where we want to make a determined effort. But if we have to do something in the care of the elderly and in all the other places where we run too fast, then we will need people to do it. That is why I also said in my speech that it is not necessarily the resources we lack, but they are actually the people. 70% of the country's municipalities have seen it become more difficult to recruit for the care of the elderly. The FOA itself speaks of the risk in the years to come that people will be missing. So we need to create conditions that allow us to stay as long as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161018	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161019	Well, it's pretty obvious, because a lot of scientists are explaining to us that inequality in health is increasing and increasing. It almost borders on arrogance when I hear the rapporteur say that, in the case of some employees, they have to work until they fall, while the rest of us can live an easy working life where we do not get worn out, and then we can retire and have some good years in old age. Do we not all have the right to some good years in old age, where we are not worn out and dependent on medicine and treatment and hospitals, but actually can also enjoy the good life when we are done providing ours?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161102-2	Yes, we do, and what we can see with the reforms that have been introduced in the area of withdrawal is that they work in the sense that they were intended, namely that people work a little longer. This means that we have room for manoeuvre in the coming years, which we can give priority to. We usually agree with SF to spend money on e.g. training. What is a little problematic is, of course, that over all the years we were opposed to the measures that allowed those who were healthy to work a little longer. But today we are glad that the room for manoeuvre is there, and we are relying on it, in everything else. What I am saying is that let us now give an outstretched hand to those who are actually worn out, those who cannot do the work they have today, without work testing and everything else, so that they can withdraw. And then let's stay a little longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161154	Sir. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161156	Thank you. Now we've heard more today telling about the people they've met out in the real world. Sir. Morten Østergaard has lived 3 days out in real life in Vollsmose... two nights and three days... and something good has come out of this: sir. Morten Østergaard was very excited about the government's gang package. Are there plans for other excursions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161220	Now I think that unless someone does something that is very illegal, namely sleeping in here, we all live out in reality every day. But it is true that I was bothered with what the government did not have time to do, namely to talk to some of the people who are living with the consequences of integration problems, and I did so in order to break up that rather boring debate that can sometimes stay in here and where you sit and make desk solutions for some of those who were in government action when it came, instead of doing something that works in reality. But, on the other hand, I also recognised that some of the tools we have been sceptical about in the latest gang package were actually being welcomed, and I would like to repeat that here today: yes, I think that the people who live in the places where the gangs are being fought deserve effective action, and I am glad that those tools have worked for the police. I've met residents who were happy about it, but I just think it's missing that a real effort is being made to prevent new gang conflicts. Now it has flared up again despite the gang packages, and so there is one police officer at Inner Nørrebro who has the task of going out and doing outreach work for children under the age of 18, if you approach them in the police and see them in the 24-hour report. But that is too small, and that is why I really think that what we should do was take up the glove and say: let us put in a massive effort to stop the gangs' recruitment, so that we not only stop the conflicts when they flare up but also prevent them from coming back.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161356	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161356-2	Great praise for this realization. What I miss and that is also why I would call for even more excursions in reality is also that you talk to some of the women who are oppressed and those who can also tell Mr. Morten Østergaard, that with burka and niqab is not just symbol politics, but equality policy. It's not shaking hands with the opposite sex. It is not symbolic policy, it is equality policy. So my question is: what is the difference between symbolic policy and politics?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161431	I have also spoken to many of the women, especially young women, and what they are most frustrated about is the debate that it is driving in here, which leaves a picture that they cannot be regarded as real Danish, even though they have lived here all their lives and never tried other things. I think that maybe both of you, sir. Naser Khader and I should be a little concerned that it is not certain that we should tell those women how to live and that we should not legislate about it at all. Perhaps, instead of allowing room for some of the women who have actually set out to help them and who may be better at talking to them, we should not be confronted with shame from the Folketing, but instead they are given the resources to continue their good work, for example. in the Exit Circle. Now, that would be a good realization from Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161525	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161527	Look, if I were a Social Democrat, I'd have that headline on Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard's speech that with friends like these, who needs enemies? Sir. After all, Morten Østergaard has made a manifesto that everyone can see is inspired by Mr. Morten Østergaard's friend down in France, who has an unpopularity rate of 70%. That may be very good from a radical point of view, because then 30 per cent liked you, but it's still a little odd. In fact, the report by the Radicals should have been called Back. Because in reality it is a question of the Radical Left being very sorry that it is not the Radical Left, which is the axis that the whole parliament is talking about, anymore. Well, sir. Morten Østergaard wants to return to the time when citizenship was given to Oussama el Saadi and Said Mansour, and what they are all called, and the Radical Left diligently voted in favour of it. Is the Radical Left not concerned at all with cohesion, for example, by the fact that this society actually has to be linked? Is that not something that concerns the Radical Left at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161649	I think it's very good that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth starts by saying that what to do with enemies when you have such friends, I almost said after Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl stood up here and said that after the next election the Prime Minister whom he has brought to power must resign, and there must be queens. Well, it just can't be more ultimate. However, in relation to the question, I would venture to claim that over the last two decades not much has divided Denmark as the course that has been pursued by the Danish People's Party, and that is actually why I set things up as sharply as I do. We need to get together as a nation, we need cohesion, but we do not get that, when the only thing you spend your time digging the trenches deeper and deeper and putting division between communities, so we find that young people who have never lived anywhere but in Denmark cannot be allowed to be perceived as Danish at all. It challenges the cohesion power, but it is challenged among other things. by Dansk Folkeparti. I think we should reach out and make sure that we were a country where we not only lived next to each other, but also lived together, no matter who we were.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161750	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161751	See, so the greatest enemy of cohesion is the Danish People's Party, according to Mr. Morten Østergaard. I find that interesting. I don't know if sir. Morten Østergaard followed interestedly in the annual meeting of the Danish People's Party here a few weeks ago. But there was a young woman from Gladsaxe who had a different cultural background from most of us who are sitting in here and who actually said that it was important for her to have become Danish. I can guarantee you that all the immigrants who embrace this society with heart, with a voice, with joy and enthusiasm, are open to us in the Danish People's Party. But those to whom we are not open are all those to whom Mr. Morten Østergaard would like to be comrades with all the Islamists, as Mr. Morten Østergaard will do nothing to stop all the potential rapists who come to our country, all the people we are trying to keep out. Of course, the people who are here today who have come from other countries are welcome to embrace our society. But this must be done on the basis of the conditions in force in our country. That must not be done unconditionally, and that is what is in the radical rhetoric; that is what lies in the radical essence: no conditions are imposed, everyone is just welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161902	I think it is the rapporteur's turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161903	I think so, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's speech speaks for itself. It succeeded in 30 seconds, plus it solved to get confirmation exactly what I said, i.e. that what you want is to twitch kiv and suspect people, whoever they are, of being, what was it, rapists and everything else. I heard Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl at the annual meeting of the Danish People's Party say the exact opposite of that, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth concluded here that it is not about people, if they want and want to and can be integrated, staying here, but that, whoever they are, if only they have a certain religion, there are too many of them. And that's the difference. I see people as equal, no matter what they believe in.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161945	Sir. Hans Andersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004161948	Thank you. Back in 2014, the then government, with Mrs Mette Frederiksen, entered into office as Minister for Employment, as Mr. Morten Østergaard was in government with, an agreement with among others. Left on international recruitment. All I have to do is ask sir. Morten Østergaard, what has happened since 2014, for now unemployment is lower, and there are thus major problems with unsuccessful recruitments, but now I understand that Social Democracy does not want to contribute to getting foreign labour to Denmark. Sir. Morten Østergaard may help tell us what has happened since 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162036-2	One can at least say that we have a government based on the Danish People's Party and not on the Radical Left. When we had a government based on the Radical Left, we were able to have a policy that gave more international labour access to Denmark. I do not think, as I am just listening to today's debate, that this seems to be the case when the Prime Minister is from the Left. Then it may be that sir... Hans Andersen wants it to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162103	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162104	But back in 2014, the Minister for Employment, who was Mrs Mette Frederiksen, said about this agreement: "We know that it will also contribute to growth and Danish jobs. ▪ We were aware of what the Danish People's Party meant in 2014. The Danish People's Party believes the same thing in 2018. What is the difference is that the Social Democratic Party, led by Mrs Mette Frederiksen, now thinks otherwise. Maybe sir can. Morten Østergaard give an idea of what has happened since 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162141	I remember it now as if the Danish People's Party was also included in that agreement, but I understand it is very important for Mr. Hans Andersen to say that those who support the government, per. definition is okay. It is the opposition that is wrong with it. This is, of course, an honest matter. However, I would just like to say that there is some indication that, specifically when it comes to foreign labour, it goes better with the Radical Left in government and the Left in opposition. We are working to restore that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162210	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162210-2	Thank you. In all modesty, I believe that Enhedslisten has made more useful proposals in relation to early retirement than the Radicals have. But I would like to sign for the Radicals' proposal, which is clearly better than the current rules on early retirement. So thank you for that. It's just that it's tied up at the age of retirement. This means, of course, that such a system will go the same way as with the early retirement: it is becoming increasingly unusable for those who really need it, namely those who entered the labour market early on. And I'd like to say to Mr. Morten Østergaard: It is not just a matter of wear and tear. It's about social justice. Because the thing is, sir... Morten Østergaard, together with the Social Democratic Party, together with the Danish People's Party and the other bourgeois parties, has adopted an arrangement that means, for example: that an 18-year-old can only retire today when she is 75 years old. But the Minister for Health has just given us the figures of the huge inequality in life expectancy: the economically most disadvantaged part of the population, among men, lives almost 10 years shorter than the highly educated. Is it so fair to have a retirement age of e.g. 75 years or just 69, which it will be raised for next time?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162346	Without specifically knowing Enhedslisten's proposal, I will not deny at all that it might be that you had a more generous proposal in relation to the worn out. I think there might be some kind of probability of that. I'm just saying that ours is concrete and, by the way, one we've taken over from the LO. That's why I thought it might be worth looking into if it couldn't happen. But it is true that we look differently at whether it is okay when life expectancy is growing, that the retirement age then follows; whether it is okay to share some of the extra years of life with your colleagues in the workplace. The reality is that if you pursue the view of Enhedslisten, it has to be paid. And then it has to be paid by someone, because it costs money to have people retired instead of having them at work. We are just saying that for us it is more important that there is good care for the elderly, good hospitals, investment in hospitals, more educators in the day care institutions • more important to take the fight with inequality in health, so that someone who is 18 years old today, not when he reaches retirement age, must experience the conditions described statistically here. It's a difference, a priority. We think the other is more important.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162449	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162450	No, it's a difference in opinion of who it really is who has to pay and help pay for the welfare of this society. We have a completely different view on this. The Enhedslisten believes that the best-off quarter of the population, and not least the 10%. The best should contribute much more to the community. Then there will also be money for a decent old-age pension for those who enter the labour market early on. After all, it is fundamentally unfair to have a system that affects those who enter the labour market early. It's not just a matter of wear and tear. But I have one more question for Mr. Morten Østergaard: What will all the many people live on, who in the years to come will be forced out of the labour market at an early age, long before retirement age? After all, Morten Østergaard himself has helped to reduce the arrangements that people should live on benefits, early retirement, sickness benefits, cash benefits? What will the many, many thousands of people live on who cannot get stuck in the labour market for so many years?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162548	I have to challenge the premise a little, because Mr. Finn Sørensen thinks you can tax yourself out of these challenges. As long as you charge more taxes, it can solve the problem. But then it is not recognised that seven out of ten municipalities find it difficult to recruit people for the care of the elderly, that large vintages in a wide range of welfare areas are retiring and that there is no one to do the job. That is why it is not just a matter of taxing oneself out of these challenges. Because in this country, whether it is welfare or prosperity, it comes out of people's work. And when Enhedslisten so massively prevents foreign labour, does not want to look at withdrawal and also blocks each and every time it is about other types of efforts to get more into work, yes, it is indeed, that we end up with less welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162641	Sir. Anders Johansson, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162644	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. And thank you for your cooperation. There are, of course, many areas where we in the Conservative People's Party and the Radicals see things the same, especially in the economic field. We believe in economic incentives and in economic reforms, and there we often have a common basis. We have also together created room for manoeuvre through a series of reforms that we can now benefit from in the future. Most recently, we also agree on this point that we need to make it easier to get to Denmark and work and attract foreign labour for companies. So far, so good. I'd like to sign for the good cooperation. But there are also some areas where we do not entirely agree. Now I mention the integration allowance and the ceiling on cash benefits. In relation to the economic incentives, the integration service has two objectives: it aims to make seeking asylum in Denmark less attractive, and it aims to bring some refugees into the labour market. Of course, the ceiling on cash benefits has the very specific purpose of making it better worthwhile to work. Well, then I'd like to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard: Mr. Morten Østergaard, who will get more or less refugees into work if the integration allowance and the ceiling on cash benefits are abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162757	I do not believe that it is possible to integrate into the labour market with the efforts made by the tripartite agreement, which I have praised without having to accept that children in Denmark should grow up in poverty. In the last election campaign, the Prime Minister is not from the author's party, but nevertheless the Prime Minister promised that the government under his leadership would not pursue a policy that brought children below the then government's poverty line. It's a promise you've broken every day since. I think that in one way or another I fundamentally oppose the fact that, at a time when there are fewer unemployed than ever, we are discussing the shortage of labour, the only ones in Danish society who have received less for themselves, those who, with the government and its majority, have deliberately lost with the integration benefit, the ceiling on cash benefits and the other poverty benefits. That is a matter of opinion. That is why I believe that we can achieve the other things with other measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162900	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162900-2	Well, sir. Morten Østergaard is right in saying that things are going better, and it is especially better to get refugees into the labour market. But if you remove these two benefits, it will actually mean that a family who is temporarily resident in Denmark and has therefore been granted asylum in Denmark will receive 10,000 DKK. more a month • 120,000 kr. more a year after tax. Thinking, sir. Morten Østergaard not that it could have an impact on whether or not you as a refugee are seeking employment, but also on what signals it will send externally in terms of making Denmark attractive to asylum seekers? After all, we have finally stopped the flow of asylum, and we are in the process of getting refugees into the labour market, so it is not a dangerous course to go in and offer DKK 120,000. more a year after tax for a family who gets asylum in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004162951	But we can also turn it around and say that with that logic you should make all benefits significantly less if you thought that it got people into work by themselves. We do not do that because we are targeting those who have just come here, and that is what is against my attitude. There is no difference in the price at the supermarket, and you do not get a discount in the cinema or whatever it is you want to do with your children on their birthday, because you have only lived here for half a year or a whole year. That is why it is a deliberate decision that there are some families that have to live worse than everyone else. I don't think anything good comes out of that, and that's why I'd rather do it by other means. We have concrete proposals on how to strengthen efforts so that no one is passive in providing cash aid, but we do not like to create poverty deliberately.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163037	Then a very glaij ve å byy welcome tea æ sonerjyy Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163042	From the Left, the Danish Liberal Party! Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The Radical Left wants to give tax relief to those with the highest wages and they want to raise the retirement age. The rapporteur said earlier in an answer to a question put by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that now, in relation to whom you want to point out, you should not turn this into just a question of refugee and immigration policy. The two issues I have outlined here, i.e. tax cuts for those with high wages, and raising the retirement age, are also issues that are, can you say, ultimate, in relation to who you want to cooperate with after a choice or to whom you want to point out?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163134	I'd like to invite Mr. Carl Holst just to orientate himself in our fine, new program "Fremad!" It can be recommended. We want a major tax restructuring, that is right, with lower taxes on labour. The last time we were in government, we got one of these, even with the goodwill of the Left, and it was overall a sensible tax reform. So you just have to be careful not to pick out any single elements. But the reality is that the Left in government has had a very difficult time pursuing its economic policy. And that is one of the reasons why we say that there must be new buns on the soup, if I may say so. We need a new direction, a new government. But it is clear and I think that was also highlighted by another questioner earlier on that it is crucial for us that people should not be blinded. They want us to invest more in children, young people, education and greening requires that there are people to do so and that there are resources for it, and that is why we have also said that for us it is crucial that a new government creates more room for manoeuvre than what we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163237	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163237-2	Thank you for the instruction and the invitation to read your program. In fact, in all modesty, I imagine I have read about our children, our responsibilities, Denmark's resources, 2025. However, the question was just quietly as to whether it is ultimate, in terms of wanting the retirement age to be raised and in terms of giving tax relief. I presented it as an objective truth about what your program says. I didn't make it a question of whether it was good or bad. That's your approach. My wish is just to get clarification on: Are you in the corner, or are you in the middle in relation to Danish cooperating parliamentarianism?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163323	In other words, what is the answer and what I actually gave is that our demand is that the new government should increase the room for manoeuvre, and then I think I said earlier in response to an earlier question that we are not discernible. In other words, there can be many ways of doing so, and we are ready to negotiate on that. So I guess that's kind of an answer to both questions. But I must also say that, of course, it is always the questioner's choice what to ask, but it just sounds a little hollow. In other words, we have a government led by the author's own party, which has had to abandon one economic plan after another, because we have been brought to power by some who roll out the nail mat every time a responsible economic policy has to be pursued. And that is why perhaps the consideration is whether it was not the Left that should consider finding new partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163410	Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163413	Thank you. I think there was a positive point in the rapporteur's speech, and it was how much the rapporteur had enjoyed being in Kolding, which is my birthplace. I'm glad to hear that. Having said that, however, it sounds as if the rapporteur does not recognise that there are parallel societies in Denmark at all. We in the Danish Parliament have had to set up secret safehouses so that young people with other ethnicity can seek protection from both reeducational trips, forced marriages and negative social control. These are the sort of things that make it seem that Radicals do not have a reality view, nor that women from other ethnic backgrounds are over-represented in our women's crisis centres. That is why I do not think that this is because the Radicals are going to open up so that everyone can just come. There must then be a radical change in relation to the whole of society in terms of what is going on. Does the rapporteur even recognise that there are some challenges in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163521-2	Yeah, I promise I will. I even think I received Mr. Naser Khader's recognition for recognizing it. And then it's on. But I just think, when you hear these questions from the Danish People's Party, that this is part of the usual disclaimer of responsibility. Now, for almost two decades, with a single break during the Helle Thorning governments, one has been able to dictate what policy should be, and I just ask: are there no need for shelters? Yes, there is, and that is enough, because the belief that we are going to solve it with endless restrictions in the law of aliens, pie eating, and what I know is going to solve the specific problems of those people, is miserably wrong. That is why we want to help those who have the problems instead of punishing all sorts of others for their existence.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163614	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163615	That was quite a thin answer that came there, I have to say. After all, the rapporteur has just said that we want to open up, and we need to have more of the European Union, that we have to open up our borders and that we need to get more in. And every time we vote on citizenship down here, it is also the case that the Radical Left does not care if there is a potential terrorist on the list that we are going to vote on. We have seen this before, and we have also debated this matter in the past. I think that radicals are very far removed from reality from this debate and from the fact that the number that is coming matters. We have parallel societies, and we must ensure that they do not evolve so that we can still send a safe Denmark to our descendants.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163700	But listen to me: there is no one who just wants to open our borders. There haven't been for decades. It's just such a strawman. On the first day of the Danish People's Party Parliamentary Group you are equipped with such a laminated paper that you can always pull up and say: you just want to open the borders. After all, nobody wants open borders. We would like to have foreign labour because it contributes and creates the possibility that we can get more welfare and better welfare and invest in education where the Danish People's Party cuts down. We would like to take our responsibility in the world for humanitarian disasters, for which Denmark has been doing for decades and is famous. But it is not about opening the borders, and that everyone can just choose to live in Denmark. It is not our policy either, so Mrs Karina Adsbøl can sleep safely and calmly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163745	Thank you very much, sir. Morten Østergaard for today's work and welcome to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004163800	There are some who say that there is no difference between right and left in Danish politics that you to the right in the hall and you to the left in the hall should be quite agreeable and be a big gray mishmask. Is that really true? At least I'd like to challenge that claim. We heard yesterday in the Prime Minister's opening speech that things are going great in Denmark. In fact, I would like to pay tribute to the Prime Minister for speaking up Denmark, because we have a great country. I fully agree with that. But the difference between red and blue blocks lies in how we manage the good times. The Prime Minister said in his speech that wealth has increased by DKK 9,000. per Dane. Nevertheless, the Blue Government has chosen to make up to 25,000 children poor as a result of the ceiling on cash benefits. The recovery thunders, the companies earn good money, yet again this year several municipalities are forced to save in day nurseries, kindergartens and care for the elderly. Companies scream for trained labour, yet every year the government saves money on education rather than investing in future generations. We are in the midst of a climate crisis, and yet the government has made the electric cars more expensive and the gas swallows cheaper. Is there no difference between red and blue? The government has distributed tax relief equivalent to a loss for the Treasury of 11 billion. kr. up to 2019, and during the government's lifetime, during the 1,195 days, 9 million have been distributed. kr. in tax breaks during the day and it could even have been much worse, for it has taken duct tape and contact glue for the Prime Minister to hold together on the blue troops. It is good that the Minister for Finance is in good shape, for he must have spent an incredible amount of effort cutting off the lower branches on the nearest trees to keep the Secretary of State from the wooden thrones. But the difference is easy to feel: 11 billion. kr. What if that money had been spent on welfare; think if they had been spent on children, the elderly, the sick and the worn out; think if they had been spent on the climate; think. For the 11 billion. kr. we could have had more hands for comfort and play in day nurseries, regular home helpers in the care of the elderly, so that as a pensioner you do not have to deal with a new face every day, more skilled nurses, time for immersion and professionalism in the primary school. We could have removed the social security ceiling and given many more children a fair chance of a good life. Yes, if you are in doubt about what government policy means in practice, you might ask some of the citizens affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. One woman wrote to me: I have the cash benefits reality at the closest level in the family with two close family members on cash benefits. I often have to help financially so that they can just get a little more quality of life and pay the bills. I myself only have my health care provider's salary, and I am about to retire, so unfortunately my financial assistance does not go as far as I would like. My daughter lost 2,500 kroner. in housing insurance at the time of the introduction of the ceiling on cash benefits. It's a whole month's food budget. Home is the last thing people give up, but it can even be difficult to pay the towering expenses when housing insurance is so hard cut. Now we have no more poor farms, but if the ceiling is not abolished, people will end up standing on the streets. On the activist group The next helpers' website there are many more reports about how the ceiling hits hard, how it hits children, and how it particularly affects children's families. So if there are still some who say that there is no difference between red and blue, I could not disagree more. There's a difference. And yes, I find it hard to agree with the Enhedslisten about the EU, and yes, I sometimes miss a more social compass in Social Democracy, but we basically have a strong community of values and a common desire for a socially just Denmark and a green Denmark. Then why do we spend our time on bullshit and squabbling and excuse me for stupid Prime Minister dreams that we all know aren't going to happen anyway? There are things that separate us, but fortunately there is even more that gathers us together. If there were a little less me, me, me, and a little more unity, I actually think we could get a really long way. So dear sir. Morten Østergaard, together let us ensure that the next government gives priority to education, to our all our primary schools, to our good vocational training, to our strong universities. Let us work together on that very thing, because education is too important to leave to the blues. And, Mrs Pernille Skipper, let us together ensure that the next government decides that no child grows up in poverty, that no sick person should fight for years with the employment system, and that far more can withdraw from a long life on the labour market before they are worn out. It won't be easy, but I think we can do it together. Dear sir. Uffe Elbæk, we must act on the climate crisis, and we must act now. Together, let us ensure that we get the world's most ambitious climate goals, that Denmark once again becomes a green guiding star in an otherwise dark night sky. And, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, we must have a strong social justice and a strong green alternative to the blue block. It takes us to stand together. Here, as the leader of the block, you have a special responsibility. So no, I don't think that red and blue blocks have fused together, that we might as well blow everything up. The difference is 11 billion. kr. in tax relief, 25,000 children affected by poverty, a marked increase in the number of petrol and diesel cars on the roads, and these are especially the big hungry models. The difference between red and blue blocks is the difference between whether the course is set for a more socially just world and a more sustainable world or a more unequal world and more brutal world, where the strong one becomes stronger and the weak one is left to himself. I am not saying that it will be easy to find a common political platform, just as it has certainly not been easy for the Prime Minister. After all, it's taken duct tape, broken promises, trussing and chair dancing. It hasn't been pretty to watch. I'm sure we can do better. Denmark is a great country. We have a huge potential to make it even better, but that requires us to make the right political decisions. It takes us to turn the kayak around. SF is ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004164542	Thank you. Then I think we'll start with someone from DF in the question round. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004164549	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur talks a lot about tax cuts, and then it seems that the rapporteur has completely repressed the 2012 tax reform 2012. Perhaps the rapporteur can elaborate on what SF was involved in the tax reform in 2012. I remember the debate in here, and I remember what was taken from the transfer income, and I also remember the scenario afterwards. That is why it just seems a little double moral now when the rapporteur talks so much about tax cuts and what they could have been used for. Is there a difference between whether we're in 2012, or whether we're in 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004164634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004164635	Yeah, I definitely think there is. Firstly, we have had 11 billion. kr., we could have used in the area of the elderly, and I could see that Dansk Folkeparti and SF could work together to ensure that the elderly receive a more dignified care for the elderly. I experience many older people thinking: Why should I experience seven different ones during the week coming and washing myself in the morning? It becomes unworthy because, as older people, you also have a right to know who comes into your home so that you can control your life. Then for the 2012 tax reform. What did we do in the 2012 tax reform? Yeah, we gave, among other things. folk pensionists a check for 5,000 kr. more a year. I think that was a positive result. We made sure that the single parents, who didn't have so much money to rustle with, got double their deductions. So we sort of delivered things that also created a social balance. Then it is true that those on the transfers do not increase in exactly the same way as in the past; they increase but not at the same level. If it had been SF that had decided alone, it would have looked different, but that is sometimes when compromises are made in the Folketing. I think the Danish People's Party knows about this too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004164744	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004164744-2	I am quite sure that we can agree on a great many good things in the area of the elderly, but also in the social field and in relation to equality in psychiatry and all other good things in relation to soft values. The reason I am asking the question is that I think the rapporteur forgot what happened in 2012 precisely that the SF helped to provide the richest tax concessions, and I think that was worth mentioning in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004164813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004164814	In relation to tax cuts to the richest, I believe that the questioner believes that the metal workers and nurses were removed from what is called top tax and went directly below that limit. At that time it was very reasonable to move the tax limit, which meant that nurses would not have to pay as much tax as, for example, the tax. Members of parliament, for they generally have a lower income per year than we members of parliament have. It's kind of fair enough for me, and it was one of the boundaries we moved. But I also think that we should remember the good elements of tax reform. I think it's a good idea, and the Danish People's Party usually agrees that it is a good idea if we can give our folk pensioners an extra helping hand, and the 2012 tax reform succeeded in the 5.000 DKK. more a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004164900	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004164902	I recently visited a group of pensioners in Copenhagen on Sjælør Boulevard. They live in some recently renovated homes. There's been reconstruction for five years in that area, and now they've been on this g list, which a number of parties are behind. Then why have they come back on the list? That is because the parties, including the SF, have changed the criteria for crime. Two people live too much who have been convicted. This means that if they stay and the housing association has no opportunity to go out and sort out people who are convicted, then we are faced with SF helping to ensure that 60%. of the newly renovated housing either to be demolished or to be privatised. I would like to ask whether this is SF policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165006	There are a number of grounds in Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's question, which is simply not correct. I would like to say first of all that there is no automatic in going down and removing the homes. This is something we must first agree on in this Parliament. I think it is a good thing that the SF is included in the agreement, because then we can look at whether it makes sense or not to tear down housing. But then I'm just gonna take a step back. Because I really think we have a community of values with the Enhedslisten, where we believe that it should not be the weakest who always have to solve a social task. I myself grew up in a non-profit housing area where no one really had really difficult social problems. I know there's a 20-year waiting list today. It would have been fine if it had been a little more mixed, that is, that some of the people who have some challenges and problems lived there too, because then we could solve them together. I cannot understand why we should put them together, i.e. people of other ethnic origin who find it difficult to integrate, along with some of those who are most socially vulnerable. Then we will not solve the social problems, then we will not take responsibility. I would like to end this so that we in our society, whether high or low, are really helping to solve those tasks, among other things. the socially weakest.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165119	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165120	Well, here we are dealing with a residential area which has a history and which is now in a reality where, yes, there are many people with a non-Western background, and yes, there are many people who do not have a long education, and then SF and other parties have changed the criteria for this g list, so just because there are two criminals who live too much, some who have been convicted it is not said that they are criminals now, so it means that residents can get into a situation where SF and other parties' demands are that they should reduce the number of general family homes in the area which housing has just been renovated over the last 5 years, governed by the residents. The resident democracy has adopted it. Then you are faced with the fact that SF will remove 60%. In the case of the housing sector, unless democracy inhabits, they must be privatised instead. This is Liberal Alliance policy. I can't believe the SF supports this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165214	Then it is good that the SF does not do it either, because the questioner puts so many wrong premises into the question that I am almost shaking my head and wondering whether the questioner has read the ghetto agreement at all. Because it's not that there's just automatic in this. This is about looking at residential areas. We want them to be more mixed. We would like there to be families where you have work, people who are resourceful and who move into these areas. There are also offers in the ghetto plan, where you can offer some of these people who live there, to move to another social housing, among other things. with any increase in the subsidy during that period. I do not see that Enhedslisten should not agree with SF that we should have more mixed residential areas, so that is the best way to solve the social challenges we have. I cannot understand why Enhedslisten thinks it is important that the socially vulnerable are only those who have to solve the integration task, and then do not care about those in Hellerup or Gentofte. They're allowed to live a little isolated and live a little fine. I really think we should mix up a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165312	Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165315	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Some of the things we have heard, among other things. The SF's rapporteur asks a few questions about what Mrs Mette Frederiksen mentioned here today, namely minimum standards, and which I understand is one of the things the SF is very much in favour of. Mrs Mette Frederiksen also confirmed from the platform today that social democracy cannot see itself in that. I would really like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr if it is something that the SF values so highly that it may not be possible to support the Social Democracy in relation to a possible Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165359	SF points to Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister. The alternative is Lars Løkke Rasmussen, and not so we point to Mette Frederiksen. It is the two real possibilities that are, in Danish politics, everything else I think is a little silly. But that is not to say that SF's mandates are free of charge. We will then come up with our political negotiating requirements, and one of them is that we want better standards in the day institutions. Nor did we hear Mette Frederiksen say that never in life or anything like that. But that must depend on a specific debate. We'll do it again. We did so last time we were in government when we were added 750 million. kr. to the children's area, and we're not giving up, we're continuing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165445	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165446	But that is clear speech, and it is always reassuring, especially when there are many different names to choose from when it comes to possible topics for the Prime Minister's post. So I understand that SF, no matter what, supports Mette Frederiksen, and that this also applies, regardless of whether you insist that you do not want to talk about minimum standards; SF is still prepared to support Mette Frederiksen at any cost, you might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165513	Now I know Mrs Anni Matthiesen well enough to know that the questioner knows that in politics one is negotiating. Nothing is ultimate, nothing is cut in stone, even if people in here claim it with a steely gaze or whatever they have in mind. After all, we are bowing to each other, and we do so mostly in politics, and it will be with the same approach to what we go to the Socialists. This is important to the SF. I'm not kidding. We know how our children feel in the day institutions, and when we hear that educators have to be alone with 24 children in the middle of the day, it is critical. So, of course, we keep fighting.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165552	Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165554	Thank you. One might think that on the one hand it is extremely sympathetic that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is trying to bring the opposition together and emphasise how few differences there are in the opposition. And then, on the other hand, she calls ours, you might say, the decision to ask Mr. Uffe Elbæk up as Prime Minister's candidate for stupide Prime Minister's Dreams and some nonsense. With that choice of words, one could consider whether it invites a great deal of constructive cooperation. There are a lot of things that separate us too, and I really would like to ask about that. We have a North Sea Oil Agreement which SF supports and which the Alternative among others. don't back up on where to pick up more oil from the North Sea. There is a housing agreement which Enhedslisten's rapporteur referred to, where a lot of tenants in general housing are certainly left behind; where it is decided that they are not allowed to move into certain areas if they are on cash benefits. As far as I know, but it may be that I'm wrong, SF doesn't support us having to abolish the integration service and the 225-hour rule. We have the tax debate for entrepreneurs, which we propose to introduce in the alternative, and we would like to offer more foreign labour to Denmark in line with what the government has proposed. We have put forward proposals to abolish national tests in primary school and we have put forward a proposal on deferred school start-ups in primary school, which the SF has voted against. It is not to be polemical, but it is more to draw a realistic picture of the fact that there are actually a number of things that divide us in the opposition. It is not necessarily a shame, but it is just about being honest about what we are in favour of together and what divides the waters.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165741-2	As I also emphasised in my rapporteur's speech, there are differences between us five parties. Otherwise we might as well merge, and I have no interest in that. I think it's nice that we're different. But we are also bent against each other because there are things we basically agree on, for example. to have a green ambition. Then the questioner mentions a very, very long list of things where we have voted differently. Let me start with the proposal for delayed school start. In the SF, we are in complete agreement. We're just in a settlement, and the conciliation tradition in here at Christiansborg means that that's where we work for it. And I am glad that it looks as if we are getting a majority in order to wait to attend primary school. I wish I could really hope that the alternative was in the settlement, because then we could fight together. But instead, you would rather stand outside and have no influence on it. Or when it comes to the national tests in primary school. That is also one of the things SF wants to do away with. We are working on this within the public school conciliation, and I believe that perhaps we can come up with some kind of experimental model or other. It would be nice if the alternative would back it up. Because there must also be a majority in favour of one's policy. It's not enough to stand alone. That's what's the art in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165854	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165854-2	Yes, but one can just ask oneself how long one can run on the arguments that are about saying, well we sit and work in a conciliation circle and push when nothing happens. We've been sitting for 31⁄2 years now, and right from the beginning we have among other things. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: As far as I am aware, nothing has happened. So the question is also where your own borders go. But you can do that with yourself. I would just like to ask a question about the Housing Agreement, which Enhedslisten also mentioned. I just have to understand it quite correctly, because in the alternative, we are also really concerned about whether there will be a lot of ordinary tenants who will be put on the street because of this agreement. And as I understand it, if the housing companies choose to sell some percentages or some of their general leases, then the companies are not obliged to create an equivalent number somewhere else. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004165945	That was a lot of questions in one. I'll try to answer as best I can. Compared to primary school, I think that we are moving things in the public school circle. I mean a lot about this government, but I have to say that the Minister for Education is actually one of the ministers who is listening. I hope that there will not be too many people out there to say that I commend our Minister for Education, but she is actually listening to this agenda. And we have among other things. have been able to see that there are primary schools that have chosen to go down in hours within a day, so the school day is shorter, and instead have converted some of the money into having two-teacher schemes. There have been changes in our common primary school, actually very many, and I am sorry that the questioner does not recognise them at all. When it comes to the housing agreement, it is the case that if you choose to move a resident, you have to rehouse the resident. That is what the agreement says, and there are no people, despite what the Alternative claims, who will be without accommodation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170044	Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170049	Thank you for the call to cooperate. We are happy and happy to do so when there is something to work together on. And then Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says that SF's mandates are not free of charge. I actually find that interesting to explore. Because at some point it has been said that the ceiling on cash benefits is essential and that we could not support a government which would not abolish the ceiling on cash benefits. I do not know whether it is still part of the price of getting SF's support for a new government and what the consequence is if you do not want it and for example. will park it on a commission. I would also like to ask you if you now choose to mention the cash benefits ceiling, but not the integration benefit if it is because the integration benefit is not decisive in this context. So, is there a difference between the integration benefit and the cash benefits ceiling, compared to what SF thinks about it, and how to tour your demands?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170149	Sir. Morten Østergaard asks me, as he has previously asked me, what we really think about the benefits of integration and perhaps in fact also about the 225-hour rule, which the questioner asked about earlier. The SF is in favour of abolishing it. We have both argued in favour of this in this Chamber, and we have also voted in favour of it. So there should be no doubt about that; it is SF's policy. In relation to the cash benefits ceiling, it is true that it is heart blood for SF. I told you about one of those who has been hit by the cash aid ceiling in my speech. There should be no doubt that when we are to have a new government after an election, I believe that this is a crucial part of a government base, and it will be crucial for the SF in relation to the position we will have after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170235	I just don't know what that means. Well, what does it mean that it will be crucial? What is the consequence? For Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has said that we cannot support a government which does not abolish the ceiling on cash benefits. And then I just ask, what's up? It's just that you're in a hurry, what do you say, to pass judgment on how the rest of us handle our role in it? It's because we've chosen to risk something and said there's something that is and there's my impression just that it might not be that way with SF. But we can have that denied now. So, is it the case that if the ceiling on cash benefits is not abolished and it is in the government base, then we cannot count on the mandates of the SF because they are not for free use?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170324	SF's mandates are not for free use. And in relation to the ceiling on cash benefits, I expect that a new government will have the abolition of the ceiling on cash benefits in the government base, and if it is not in the government base, then the SF will table it as an amendment to the First Finance Act, and if it is not voted through, we will not vote in favour of the Finance Act. And Mr. Morten Østergaard well what the consequence is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170342	The next one is sir. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170347	Thank you. Of course, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr speaks a lot about what the SF is concerned with, including the citizen-centred welfare. It is schools, it is the children's harbours, and it is the care of the elderly. That is why I would just like to measure Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr by her words in relation to the action and action that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr may also have in her possession, to hear what happened in the three years when you were part of the majority and where you were also part of the government at least in the majority of the time, in relation to the allocation of resources to the municipalities. I am thinking of the agreements reached during the three years between the government at the time, led by the Social Democratic Party and supported by the SF, and KL. Did more money have to be given to the citizen's welfare in the municipalities, or was the financial framework cut?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170431	If we look specifically at the children's field, we provided 250 million in the first Finance Act. kr. more to the day-care area. Subsequently, the Finance Act 2015 negotiated 500 million. kr. more to the children's area. That is an increase of 750 million. kr. in the field of children. But it is true that after we took over the power of government after a blue government that had taken no financial responsibility whatsoever, we had to clean up and the Danish economy in those years was quite under pressure. So it is true that quite as much money as we would have liked was not provided for the citizen-centred welfare, but it was therefore a consequence of an economically much-pressed situation. We're in a different situation now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170514	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170515	I appreciate that confirmation. So when one hears that more money should have been spent and that the bourgeois governments were cut down, the opposite was the case. We actually spent more money, and now I hear from the SF that we spent more money than we should have spent. And when you saw as SF became part of the government, you cut down on the municipalities' budgets. I think that is a good confirmation to get here today. You talk a lot about redistribution, welfare or tax cuts, so I just want to ask you something else: when was the last time you lowered the top tax in this country, when was the last time you lowered corporate tax in this country, and who was in government at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170547	It is true that SF helped to lower the top tax, and it is true that SF helped to reduce corporate tax. It was not wishes that had grown in SF's backyard. Then we've made it clear. But when we talk about how it is with Danish economy now, compared to how the Danish economy looked in 2011, when SF entered government, Denmark was really in a very, very difficult economic situation. Now we are in a recovery. We have a very good economy in Denmark and we can choose what we want to spend the money on. You choose to spend 11 billion dollars. kr. on tax relief until 2019. I'd rather spend that money on welfare in our elderly care, in our day care institutions, in our primary schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170629	Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170639	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, particularly for the last comment on the needy municipalities. After all, I very much share the concern. The municipalities are under pressure on welfare, and the government does not give many hands to do better. On the contrary, money is being withdrawn from the municipalities. In fact, the ghetto agreement that has been concluded does not make it easier for the municipalities either. Because there is a rule that there may not be more than 30%. of the children in the day-care centres, which are children from vulnerable residential areas, we risk that the municipalities will have to close day-care centres in the vulnerable residential areas and spend a great many millions, perhaps even billions overall, on building institutions elsewhere where they can attract children, or rather move children from the burdened residential areas. Is that a good SF policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170737	SF believes that there should be a limit to how many people have different ethnic origins both in our day institutions, in the primary school and, as such, in our upper secondary education, because we want us to get mixed up. Now I live in a part of Copenhagen, which is very close to Tingbjerg, and when I talk to the parents in Tingbjerg, some of them say that they are driving their children away from Tingbjerg because they want their children to meet ethnically Danish children. There is nothing wrong with that, because you want to make your child grow up with Danish as a strong language, instead of it being something that needs to be learned later on. That's some of what we're doing. If children do not get the opportunity to mix from the day care area, they will be put behind on points. Imagine starting in primary school and not being able to Danish, very good Danish. It would be, like, if you or I were to run 10 km now I don't know how much you train, but if I were allowed to start 1 km in front of you, it might be that you didn't feel it was quite on the same terms. That's what we're putting our children through.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170834	Even if you're good comrades, you don't say you here. Pia Olsen Dyhr Sorry!). The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170844	I would be happy to set up a 10-kilometre race, even if the rapporteur had to start 1 km before me. However, I fully agree that it is not fair for children to put them at a disadvantage. But that is not what my question is about either. Because I think it is quite fine for parents to choose a daycare centre elsewhere than in their immediate vicinity because they think that another daycare institution is better, for example. because of the linguistic challenge. What I am a little worried about is that if you are not allowed to move children from unloaded residential areas into the day-care centres that are in the areas under stress, this means that you cannot achieve a mix in the day-care centres that are in the areas under stress, and this will mean that the municipalities will have to close down those institutions and build some others instead. And it's gonna be expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004170946	I fully agree with the questioner. We need to be mixed up, and that is why we need to move back and forth. I do not think the agreement to which the honourable Member refers is quite that simple. In addition, I'd like to say that I'd like to run for a ten-mile race where I run 1 km in front of you. I'm up for that. It's a deal. Now the whole parliament has heard it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171000	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171009	Thank you. You sit back a little puzzled on top of the speech... not so much over the 10-mile race, you guys take care of it, I stay out of it, but mostly over these outbursts around other parties that seem to have stupid dreams. It's kind of hard to call a dream stupid, I think. You can call people stupid. But leave it alone. You can also discuss how little is enough. How many settlements do you have to be in where you don't get through what you want? But specifically, I would like to ask about the production of oil and gas. Does the SF agree that we should phase out the production of oil and gas?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171043	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171053	Does the SF agree that this also applies to Denmark? Now I am asking quite specifically, because there has just been a new round of invitations to tender which was chosen to be supported by the SF. I would really like to have that explained. If you agree, because I have discussed this before with SF politicians, and you want to phase out oil and gas, why is it that, at the same time as the other hand, you grant permissions for new explorations for oil and gas? It's a little weird to use a nicer word.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171118	Because there is a difference when we take oil and gas up in the North Sea and in Denmark compared to Russia and the Middle East. We are making it more climate-friendly, although it is difficult to imagine that oil and gas are climate-friendly, but it is in a much more climate-friendly way than if we do so in Russia and in the Middle East. I have to say that in these times of gas, when we are very much discussing Russia's exports to Europe, there is a good reason why Denmark should be self-sufficient in gas, among other things. a security perspective. That is why I am so pleased that the alternative with the new energy agreement is also part of the whole North Sea oil agreement, because the energy agreement says that "the North Sea Oil Agreement is part of this and the financing of the North Sea Oil Agreement is one of the reasons why we can make the green adventure in Denmark."
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171205	The questioner. No, he used two rounds. Then we take a new questioner, and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171213	Thank you. I can get a little tired sometimes. SF's rapporteur and chairman talk about welfare, welfare, welfare, knowing that under the former Social Democratic-led government, of which SF was a part, the municipal service framework was reduced by 3.5 billion. This is in stark contrast to what has happened under this government, where the service framework has been extended by 2.5 billion. kr. This means, of course, that when you extend the service framework, you have more money for good schools, for day care institutions, for dignified care for the elderly and all the other things that are part of such a welfare agenda. When I say that I get a little tired when I hear the rapporteur talking about welfare, it is actually because I really do not think that I have heard a lot of concrete suggestions about what the service framework should be if the SF could decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171319	We think it is important, among other things. to follow the demographic challenge we face. We will have more elderly people, we will actually have more children, and this will require priority for citizens' welfare. There's a choice. The questioner knows just as well as I do what we want to spend the money on. We are going to spend it on tax cuts, which may mean that the individual gets a hundred more in his pocket, or we are going to pool the money and get something for the community, such as... may be that the elderly experience that there are regular teams in the care of the elderly, that it is the same person who comes every morning? I'm giving priority to the last one.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171353	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171355	It simply sounds so hollow when the rapporteur says here that it requires that we give priority to the citizen's welfare. In any case, the SF has not done so under the former Socialist-led government, where the municipal service framework was reduced by 3.5 billion. kr. Is it a priority for the citizen's welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171417	I am a little surprised that the rapporteur is beginning to laugh in the middle of everything. I don't think there's anything funny about this. I think it is quite serious and I think it was serious that during our reign we could not spend as much money as we would like on welfare because Denmark was in a very serious economic crisis, which the Left-led government also knew when they left government offices. It was something that had to be cleaned up, and subsequently Denmark has got a good economy. We are in good times, we can choose what we spend the money on, and then you can choose to use the money to make expensive environmentally polluting cars cheaper, or you can spend it on making health care better.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171456	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171504	What makes me speak was actually what I saw as a very fierce defence of the 2012 tax reform, and then what I would like to ask the President of the SF is whether the President of the SF cannot confirm that it was the sovereign most inequality-building reform carried out under the S-R-SF government and whether it was in that light a particularly good reform to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171528	I am sorry if Enhedslisten has seen it as such a full-blown defence of it, but one has to accept compromises when making agreements and unfortunately we could not make the agreement with Enhedslisten as I would have liked, because then it would not have been them on transfer income that were regulated lower. There was still an increase, but now regulated lower to find the economic room for manoeuvre so that one could finance some of the other, among other things. that the pensioner received 5,000 kroner. more a year. So it was not grown in our backyard, but because we could not land it with the Enhedslisten, so instead it remained with the bourgeois, it unfortunately became a socially unfair reform in relation to the element, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171608	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171611	It is true that the government chose to make an agreement with the bourgeois, and our then political rapporteur spoke very freely from the liver what she thought about the case of rolling cameras. However, when I listen to the chairman of the SF, I think that there is probably a fundamental lack of an awareness of how biased and how disastrous the 2012 tax reform was and how much inequality it created. This also applies when we see the LO running campaign for better allowance rights. Had it not been for the 2012 tax reform, it would be the case that, when the reform is fully phased in by 2022, an allowance recipient will have around DKK 12,000. less per year than the beneficiary would have had if not lots, including SF, had voted in favour of the 2012 tax reform. Can we not realise that, in general terms, the tax reform was totally biased because it increased inequality enormously in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171703	I think that I have just come to the conclusion that it was a little crooked because we had to land it with the bourgeois, because unfortunately we could not get Enhedslisten to be on an agreement. The rapporteur knows as well as I do that this was not something that took a short time, it was something that involved a great many meetings, a great many negotiations, and we tried to land it with the Enhedslisten. If I could have decided, I would have liked the Enhedslisten to finish. But it's up to Enhedslisten to choose for themselves, and it couldn't be done, and I'm really sorry, because then we ended up having a different phase in relation to the transfers than what I think would have been the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171737	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171746	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech, first of all. After all, it is not true that in the climate agreement in which the alternative is included, we recognise and approve the North Sea Agreement. That is simply not correct. So the rapporteur has to go home and read the agreement again. But I really want to ask about general housing. I think it was Odense's chief of police who said: no one is moving into an area called a ghetto. Well, when does a family mother sit and say to her children: Tomorrow, kids, we move into a ghetto? There is the whole stigmatisation of the areas, the concept which, in Denmark, has been sanctioned at national level. It is the only country in the world that I know about using the word ghetto, and the rapporteur himself does so in his speech. What is the rapporteur's position with regard to the stigmatisation of words?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171845	I really wanted to use another word. It's just sometimes easiest if we know what we're talking about. However, I believe that we are talking about socially vulnerable areas. We are talking about people who are socially under pressure... some of those who have the very least in our society. These are the ones I am concerned with, and I am concerned about finding good solutions for them, because the rest will be fine. But that's why we need mixed residential areas. That's why we have to make sure people get another offer. If you are on cash benefits and are asked if you would prefer to go out there, where all the other socially vulnerable live, or if you would like to move to social housing where there are people who also go to work, people who also have some other options, then I am 100% sure that people would choose the latter. At least that is what I see in my mailbox, and I know that the debate is very square, and only people are opposed to this. But that is not correct. After all, there are a lot of people living in these non-profit residential areas who want to live elsewhere, and that is one of the things we are giving them the opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171941	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004171944	Is it my understanding, then, that the rapporteur will work towards abolishing the concept of ghetto, the stigmatizing concept and abolishing the ghetto list, or at least the point that divides people by ethnicity and links them with a ghetto? The rapporteur talks about the fact that it is easier, because then we know what we are talking about. In fact, I think that is a really, really bad way of addressing the problems, because then you acknowledge the premise that only people who do crime and with other ethnic backgrounds lean on the ghetto concept and who live in those areas, which is not true. In the vast majority of areas, virtually all, we have more ethnic Danes, and we have more who have Danish citizenship. That's one. The second point is that in the long term we are narrowing down. I have heard Mr. Jacob Mark talks about your freedom, knowing that you can't move anywhere you want, and by relocating. Does the rapporteur think that it is okay that we restrict some people's freedom in the long term, that we punish some double geographically because in the long term they will have more freedom out of restricting it now? Is this how we should conduct democracy and legal certainty in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004172059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004172102	I did not understand the second part of the question at all. It is not because I am not going to answer it, but I simply do not understand what the questioner is asking and then it is difficult to answer. In relation to the first part: what I am concerned with is solving the problems. Well, I think it's right to call it a ghetto, because that's what everyone understands. That's an important part of it. I have never said and I simply do not want the rapporteur to put such preachers on me that a ghetto is only about people who are of other ethnic origin and criminals. It must stand at the author's own expense. What I am saying is that these are areas where we experience people who are socially at risk, people who have social problems, and also people with other ethnic origins. After all, it is a jumble of some of those who are socially most disadvantaged in our society, and I think we have a joint responsibility in the Folketing to lift these people and give them a chance and not just leave them to themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004172147	Thank you very much to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her work today. There's no more questioners. And a warm welcome to Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004172158	What many speakers, what many questions, what many hours we have been in the Chamber here. My party chairman has an expression which he often uses, and which he might well use about the debate here today. He'd say it's been a rough birth. Just that expression I feel a little bit tight with right now, with 16 days at term, and I do not think, in principle, that it is an expression that men are allowed to use. Soon, two to three will be when my husband and I become the parents of a little girl. Then I have formed my own little trio government at home, and I wonder if it will not be the least that will set the agenda for a while. So it is in Danish politics sometimes. In any case, we believe that Conservatives have a lot of influence. We've started to look at the day care center at home. Here in the Folketing most people will think that we have two living rooms: red living room and blue living room. I go to the blue room myself, and I'm really happy about that. Because sometimes it seems a little chaotic in the red room. At least there's such a fight about who's gonna decide on the playground. In the blue room, we work together. We are not afraid of our differences, and we get a lot of results. We have done so in the more than 1,000 days since the elections. For a child, the first 1,000 days are crucial. That is why our Conservative Minister for Children and Social Affairs has presented an ambitious proposal for precisely the first 1,000 days of children, with a particular focus on vulnerable children. We will ensure more visits to the home by the healthcare provider to ensure that everything goes well at home. We will hire 460 additional educators to support the children, so no matter what background, no matter what baggage you carry in the backpack of the day care center, all options are open to you. On my phone I now have three numbers on the list of favorites: my husband, my party chairman and the delivery at Hvidovre Hospital. Health care becomes important to most Danes at one time or another. Since the parliamentary elections, Denmark has moved from a ninth place to a third place among the best health services in Europe. This is largely due to our amazing staff. They work hard, provide help and care when needed. But they are also frustrated, frustrated by IT systems that do not work, frustrated by trouble and bureaucracy, frustrated by lack of confidence and lack of time. We must listen to all this, even if we have invested 4 million each day since the elections. kr. extra in our health care. We're not in the finish line. We must also listen to the danger signals that tell us that we will be lacking general practitioners in the future: family doctors who have often treated several generations in the same family. In 2021, 300,000 Danes can stand without their own general practitioner, because so many clinics have had to shut down the approach of new patients. That would be disastrous, and that is why we Conservatives would very much like to see increased participation in general medicine. I wonder what kind of mother I'm going to be, whether I can limit Friday's candy to Fridays, or whether there's a sneaking in by myself a little more often, but I have no doubt that I will do everything in the world to prevent my daughter from ever smoking. I actually think most parents feel that way, and yet every day 40 children and young people start smoking. So that's two whole classes. 8% of the children born this year will die of smoking. We cannot and must not accept that. That is why we propose Conservatives today to introduce smoke-free school time throughout the country, both in primary, secondary, secondary and vocational education, for all pupils under 18 years of age. At the same time, we also propose that the price of a package of cigarettes should rise to DKK 60. For studies show that it will cause 20,000 children and young people to put cigarettes on the shelf. We have to take that responsibility on board. Tomorrow I'm gonna go on maternity leave. Then it is on the cozy clothes and Netflix for a while, but I do so with a clear conscience, because the government is in the work clothes and produces results for the benefit of the Danes. We have lowered taxes, invested in welfare, record-breaking Danes have a job, the number of asylum seekers is the lowest in 9 years, and more than 146,000 private jobs have been created since the elections, and we will stand together to make Denmark even richer and freer. These are the results we are proud of, such as: have come because of the necessary reforms that we have carried out, but also necessary reforms that have caused such an uproar from time to time in this Chamber. Nevertheless, I do not hear any parties say that they will roll it all back, both in terms of cash benefits and early retirement, and I understand that as a matter of fact. For then the sour upbringing will be replaced by outright pluckings when people realise that a bill of 55 billion will have to be collected. kr. Up. Another bill that is ugly to get is the bill sent to the survivors who have lost a dear family member. I simply do not understand why the Social Democrats have proposed that the family members of the deceased should be taxed even more heavily. But they won't answer, with exactly how much. I think you owe it to me to give an answer to that. In the Conservative People's Party we are quite clear in the spit: we believe that the inheritance tax should be abolished altogether. Because when the citizens see their mother or father put in the coffin, politicians should not see a treasure chest. Hard-earned money must remain in the citizens' pockets once you have already paid tax on them once. I love Søren Kragh-Jacobsen's kid song... It teaches children what to do and what not to do. There must be respect for the law and our common values. That is why I am very pleased that the police have been given much better tools to take action against the gangs. It has meant 400 extra gang members in prison. The band Loyal to Familia has been banned. Foreign criminals are now being forced to save up for their own return journey. At the same time, we are opening an exile prison. As our Conservative Minister of Justice has said: we do not go for five hearts in politics, zero hearts suit us brilliantly. My heart beats for the Denmark we pass on to future generations. We must take care of our vulnerable and vulnerable nature. We need to take care of our climate and our planet. That's why my daughter, when she gets big, doesn't have to breathe particles from newly registered petrol and diesel cars either. That is why we Conservatives have proposed setting an end date for it by 2030, and we are very pleased that it has become government policy. This is a victory for everyone in this Chamber. A pregnancy has three trimesters, a parliamentary period of 4 years, and the closer you get to the deadline • Whether it's a birth or an election • The more snappy you can go and stay. Just ask my husband at home. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that I hope that we will have a good and constructive parliamentary year, and that we can remind each other that when Mrs Pernille Skipper, Mrs Zenia Stampe or Mrs Trine Bramsen are fighting in the debate some of the newly baked mothers in the red room, they do so on the basis of faith in what creates the best future for Denmark's children, just as when the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, Mr. Mads Fuglyde or I myself fight for our newborn, yes, then we fight for all Denmark's children. We can disagree, and we can discuss it so that it goes without saying, both in this Chamber and outside, but we should never question each other's motives. But dear colleagues in the blue room, you simply have to pull yourselves together and get started. My own little statement shows that red living room in the past year has delivered 75%. More kids than blue living room has. The election match 2036 is in full swing, and right now we get the rear wheels of the red ones. I have to say it the way it is. As Mr. Pelle Dragsted himself admitted on Twitter, is the strategy of Enhedslisten to breed himself into socialism. The time has passed and now I look forward very much to 45 minutes with questions. It is no time to consider that a first birth average lasts 17 hours, as I have learned recently. If some of the questions become so tough that they trigger contractions or if the water may even go, then I apologise in advance to those who have put the new carpet here in the Parliamentary Chamber. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173300	Thank you. We shall begin the debate, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173312	Thank you. It is good to see the rapporteur in happy circumstances, and I think we are many colleagues who look forward to seeing a small new radical 'no', not a radical, but a small new conservative. Well, who knows! But I am sure that it will also be able to be read in the measurements when that happens. I have one question for the rapporteur, and it is a question of hearing the Minister of Finance of the country recently say that he would not, in this way, reject an increase in retirement age or tax cuts to increase labour supply. And there is my question to the Conservative People's Party: is it the policy of the Conservative People's Party to continue to raise the retirement age and to grant top tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173403	Thank you. I was just about to say: it should not be so bad that it becomes a radical, but let's see what time brings you know never! The Conservative People's Party is completely on the goal of the agreement we have made to increase the retirement age. This is one of the necessary reforms that I also spoke about in my speech and which ensures that we can also afford to invest in our welfare society in the future. There we have to keep up with time, and that is why we are fully in line with the agreement we have made on the retirement age. In the Conservative People's Party, we would very much like to see the top tax abolished. We would like to see that, but, on the other hand, we must also be realistic and say that there are no 90 mandates to do so in this Chamber today. We are, in fact, a very long way from the 90 mandates. But the wish is there, although I do not think it is feasible in the coming period.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173457	Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173501	It could of course be hoped that the rapporteur could help to move votes over the middle. We would certainly welcome that if that were the case with the new one. Enough about that. I just want to follow up on the answer here. The Conservative People's Party continues to work for top tax relief and actually wants more of this kind. And, of course, you do not need to gather 90 mandates to get your government to take part in it, and that is why my question is of course: if we move from the Conservative People's Party to the government, is it the government's aim to continue to lower the top tax or to abolish it altogether?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173534	I think that the government has had the rounds you should have on top tax, and now I stand here on behalf of the Conservative People's Party and can tell you what the party's policy is. And yes, we basically believe that the Danes are being taxed too hard. We basically think that top tax is an envy tax on people who work hard and who have taken a good education and who work hard every day. We believe that this is basically an unfair tax, in which we find it difficult to see the logic. Then we will have the opportunity to abolish it, and we will be happy to do so. But we are also very concerned about tax cuts at the bottom, where we can see that unfortunately very many Danes are 43,000? out of going to work every eternal day in relation to being on public support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173614	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173623	Thanks for the speech. Then we clarified that the end of sales of fossil fuel cars by 2030 was the fault of the Conservatives. It may have been a hard birth to have to go through it. We are facing huge climate problems. We need to stay below 11⁄2 degree global temperature increase to avoid some serious shifts in the condition of the planet. We have an agriculture in Denmark which accounts for 20%. of CO2 Here we have a subject where the number matters. I would like to hear from the Conservatives whether the Conservatives recognise the need to reduce animal production in Denmark so that we can come to the conclusion that agricultural CO2 we cannot simply work with electric cars; we have to accept that agriculture has to reduce its CO2 does the rapporteur recognise that this has to be done by reducing animal production?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173733	At any rate, I fully acknowledge that if we are to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, it will require a fairly thorough effort in all the sectors which are not subject to quotas, including agriculture. Now we start with the transport sector because that is where we can see that unfortunately it is going the wrong way. In relation to passenger cars, they account for 19 per cent. of CO2 I also fully recognise that we are not going to achieve a goal without agriculture also contributing. There are many ways in which this can be achieved, for example with the use of precision farming, by looking at the technology in the barns, etc. We need to map out the instruments that are available. So I fully recognise that we cannot achieve our objectives without agriculture also contributing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173820	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173825	Yes, it is not enough to have precision farming. We have to go into the fact that in Denmark we spend 80%. of our agricultural area for animal feed and for animal production. Globally, it's 70%. We need to go into something where we are reducing CO2 Should the comment be understood just now in that way that agriculture is not included in the climate package that the government will be bringing in next week, so it is only transport that is included in that package?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173904	Yes, it would probably be remarkable if I were to stand here and reveal the contents. It is because I am on maternity leave next week and therefore cannot be a part of the discussion once it is put forward, but I must stand by the temptation and take advantage of it. But it is clear that when we come up with a climate initiative, it is not enough to address just one sector. We need to address the three B's, cars, homes and farmers. So, of course, we also have to address agriculture. It is true that we in Denmark have a very large area that has been cultivated, but we also have to be aware that it doesn't help either, that we then cut down on it in Denmark, where after all we grow quite climate-friendly, so that the production is only turned up elsewhere. It's just a balance that we have to keep an eye on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173944	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004173952	Thank you to Mrs Abildgaard for a very good speech and congratulations on the good circumstances. Mrs Mette Abildgaard can take it easy, there is plenty of time. On average, a first-born nine days pass over time, so there is a long time left for Mrs Mette Abildgaard to enrich us with her political thoughts. What I'd like to spend some time on is something the Justice Minister was out with this summer. Now we have talked a little bit about the family doctor and something like that, where we look a little bit alike at some things, and I think there is also a place where we look alike at some things when it comes to the police, namely the desire for us to once again set up a stronger local police, where there are some officers who walk around in people's local environments and know the people, know the young people, know who to grab, if someone is going into some dirt, so that we also get the preventive work that lies in having a visible, present police with local knowledge, raised. So will Mrs Mette Abildgaard not tell us a little more about the ideas that lie here, what comes of opportunities, and how we can make this reality so that it does not just go on thinking between us and agreeing between us?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174058	Thank you. I know, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has good advice from home in relation to the area of pregnancy, but I have now been told that it is 4 days that are passed in average, which is a little unfortunate because we are invited to a ball in the royal house 4 days above my term. So it's a little uncertain whether we're going to a party with the royals, but we're betting on it. As far as the near police are concerned, it is quite right that the Minister for Justice has lifted a little of the veil that there is going to be a move. We're gonna raise the number of cops attached to the close. Today there are about 250 men, and what the Minister of Justice has been out to say is that you can count on 100 extra men. So it is a quite significant increase in people who are dedicated to the local, to the near. I fully agree with the questioner that it is important to see the police in the local area, because it provides security, it gives a feeling that it is no further away when you need it, so that is why it is a very important issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174152	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174155	We're not going to fight for 4 or 9, but now we're going to see who's gonna be right when it's hopefully gone well. In relation to the police, I would say that something that is important to us in the Danish People's Party, and that is one of the reasons why we can do this here, is that we get trained more officers. We will also have a Western educational facility with the possibility of having more people admitted to the police school, and then we will have more officers trained. It is for us to see a multi-annual perspective so that we get more of the crews for the tasks that are there. And that also means that we will have the opportunity to strengthen this close police effort. Then I just want to make sure that we agree that it should lead to policemen running around in a local area and having knowledge of the local area, so it is people who permanently come in the same environment in the same areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174240	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174243	We are very pleased with the good cooperation we have had with the Danish People's Party in the field of justice, and in particular with the local police. It is quite true that we have increased considerably after, among other things, the increase in the number of people involved. a great wish from Dansk Folkeparti with the result that from 2016 to 2019 600 additional men were admitted to the police training. It is clear that we need the officers who are in the local area who are in the vicinity to know their territory. It is the whole idea that you get a knowledge of the young punks that you might need to talk to before they get themselves into something they can't get their way out of again. It's got to be the idea behind the playout.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174319	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174326	Thank you. And thank you very much to Mrs Mette Abildgaard for a very fine speech from the rapporteur. I am absolutely certain that Mrs Mette Abildgaard will be an excellent and very caring mother. And I'm sure that the daughter who comes out will have a really nice and safe life. There is something I would like to address, because now that the rapporteur has talked so much about children and children's conditions and that we must ensure that our children live a good life, while at the same time wanting to abolish the inheritance tax, it is also the case that children will grow up with different conditions. The rapporteur said that hard-earned money must remain in your pocket, and you might think so. But if you are a cleaning assistant, the money is certainly hard earned, but they are not very many. So the child born by the cleaning assistant doesn't get a very big inheritance. On the other hand, the child born of a bank manager or a wealthy family with a large capital in the bank can be given a great inheritance. The two children will grow up with two fundamentally different opportunities in the world at least in relation to, you might say, the capital, the legacy that comes with. Can the rapporteur not understand that we are some who think it unfair that, because of parents' wealth alone, we should have such different economic conditions for our life as a child?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174443	Basically, I cannot understand why the state should interfere when parents have saved something that they want to pass on to their children and their grandchildren. I simply do not think that this is a matter for the State in principle. Today we have a limit of DKK 289,000, and when you get above that amount, you have to pay inheritance tax. It's about half the Danes who leave behind that money. So it is not the case that a very small elitist class is paying inheritance tax today. It's half the Danes who do it. And there we just cannot see what right the state has to say that it is entitled to that money once they have been taxed once. But it is true that children have different conditions in life. We have a large welfare society which has the task of ensuring that all children have good conditions in life. We can never eliminate the differences. But it's more than half of the Danes who leave a legacy at this level.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174536	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174540	For the same reason, the alternative has also proposed setting the limit, and I know that the Social Democrats actually do. We could set the limit in relation to how much someone leaves behind before starting to pay inheritance tax because it ensures greater equality. So I would like to come to the rapporteur's attention because, of course, there must be a certain amount of money before we have to pay a tax on it. But that's not where the problem is. After all, the problem applies to the large capital assets that some children inherit. So when the state has to interfere, it is precisely because if the state does not interfere, children in Denmark will have very different conditions for what life they get. And will we, as a state such as Parliament, be the model of giving children in Denmark so widely different conditions for what they have of opportunities in their lives? We just don't think that's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174632	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174636	I think it might be very interesting to hear what the limit should then be set up to. And that is also a little what I am calling for from the Social Democratic Party in my speech today. I think it must be fair to give an answer as to what the limit should then be raised to. Because then we can start by working together on it. Perhaps we can also start by working together on how, for example, to do so. defines closely related family members. Because today, if you're going to pass the inheritance on to your sister or your brother, there's going to be this 25%. Besides, if you want to pass the inheritance on to your children. Nor do I think that is a fair way of defining family today, i.e. that a sister or brother cannot be near family. So let us at last discuss it constructively.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174708	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174709	Thank you. I liked the picture with red and blue living room, but I didn't quite understand the fact that red living room was supposed to be the ones making noise. And if that's the way it's red and blue living room, I imagine that mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is the child in the blue living room who runs off to the red living room and that sometimes it creates panic over in the blue living room. But pictures are always good in a debate. It triggers a lot of things. But I want to talk about those living rooms, because what can sometimes make it easy for kids to get out of the rooms is if there aren't enough adults. There has just been a big campaign on Facebook with educators who have shared signs where they write: It is 2:00 p.m. and I am alone with 24 children. There is also a study that shows that on average educators stand alone with children of 17 children 1 hour a day. This has meant that we have repeatedly proposed that we should have minimum standards, that we say, as in primary school, that there should be a minimum number of adults for children, so that we know that there is time for care and security, play and comfort. What do you Conservatives think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174818	I note that earlier today the questioner asked the same question to another Mette, namely Mrs Mette Frederiksen, and that he was not very successful in bringing her along. And I will probably have to complain and say to the questioner that this Mette will not succeed either. We in the Conservative People's Party do not believe that the right way to address the challenges that may be in some institutions is to introduce minimum standards, in which we drag the same model across all the institutions across the country. It is a municipal responsibility, and as a local politician we must also be responsible for the priorities we are taking in these areas. There is a world different from how it works across the country, as the questioner himself said earlier today. On the other hand, we have reported from the conservative side that we are open to see whether we should have increased standards in the outermost classes, because we can see that there are very many parents who are very busy having their children picked up because they do not like having children there in the outermost classes. So maybe we can discuss that in more detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174915	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174919	Then I simply do not understand the argument anymore. If the argument against ensuring that there are enough adults through minimum standards is that it is municipal self-government that has to deal with it, how can it be that the Conservatives are now, with a new policy, going to create a completely new minimum standard, but only in the outermost hours? That is, of course, something even more bureaucratic than saying: here you have a resource, decide for yourself how it is to be distributed. Now the Conservatives will say: we will determine exactly how resources are to be used in the outermost hours. What's the difference? Isn't that a violation of municipal autonomy? Would it not make better sense to say that we know that more time is needed so that we give more resources and minimum standards, and then it is up to the day institutions to find out how best to distribute them?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004174959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175002	When we on the conservative side have proposed a special effort targeted at the extremes, it is because we know that it is there that is a particular challenge, and that is because we know that there is a particular challenge that is of great socio-economic importance. We know that in many cases mother and father leave work earlier than they would otherwise, because they must have picked up the kids before they risk being back in an institution where perhaps there is only one teacher left. So we can see that this is one of the things that has very great socio-economic significance. That is why we have chosen to say that there must be a special effort there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175031	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175038	I would also like to join the Glee Club in wishing Mrs Mette Abildgaard every success and also in congratulating her on her recent birthday. Everything's going well and brilliant. At any rate, I can be a little nervous that we should spare Mrs Mette Abildgaard, and here I am thinking in particular of a small flower, we have watered sometimes together, which is about the public law. Unfortunately, it has fallen out, gone, for the Minister of Justice to get it into the legislative programme, that is to say, a change in the public law. That is a little strange, because it is in the government base, and you had a bill that you could actually have just put forward. I think there would be a large majority in favour of this. But the government has chosen not to do so. That is why we have had to raise a question to find out what is going on and also say that the conciliation cannot bear through a parliamentary election campaign. That is why I really just want to hear where we have the Conservative People's Party today. Does one say where the government stands, with a very modest change in the public law, or does one say where one stood before one went into government, so that, if the conciliation does not take place because we have abandoned it, one is in fact ready to make the major changes that both Mrs Mette Abildgaard and, incidentally, the current Minister of Justice have advocated?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175154	It is quite true that the Conservative People's Party withdrew from three paragraphs that we found worrying about the Public Service Act. It is also quite right that what has been on the negotiating table and what has now been proposed is a relaxation of the one paragraph, namely the ministerial service clause. That is a clear relaxation of it, and there is no doubt about it. But we also recognise that it is not as far-reaching as several other parties would have liked. However, as Mrs Christina Egelund also mentioned today, when she stood on the platform, this is a conciliation circle where there are very different views on this issue and where there are also parties, including my own, which have helped to make some decisions that we have seen some consequences of which we have not liked. The same is true of Mr. Morten Østergaard's party. We are now considering the situation. We're thinking about what's gonna happen from here. It is not for me to tell you about the further process of government. This is the Department of Justice's area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175249	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175253	But it is surely for Mrs Mette Abildgaard to explain the conservative view. I assume that's why you've gone to the platform. And what my question really was is whether you mean what the government thinks today, i.e. the slight change in the minister service clause, or whether you mean what you meant before you went into government. Because the conditions are now that it is given freely. We've terminated the settlement. It is not after the next parliamentary elections, which is why it is interesting to hear whether the Conservative People's Party has now come so close to the Left and the Social Democratic Party that we need to have the magnification rather than finding the changes that need to be made, or whether we will find the view that we had, namely that real and major changes should be made to the public law in order to recreate light in which there was darkness.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175336	I would very much like to explain where the Conservative People's Party stands, and we in the Conservative Parliamentary Group have not made any new decisions in relation to our view of the Public Service Act with regard to what we have reported in the past, where we have therefore pointed out these three paragraphs. We think that what has been negotiated is very sensible. We think it's better than nothing. We have a Minister for Justice, who is also our party chairman, who has a responsibility for those negotiations. However, the Conservative People's Party has made no new decisions in relation to the Public Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175402	Then it's mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175405	Thank you. Congratulations to the rapporteur on the upcoming increase in the family. I wish the rapporteur anything but a difficult birth, and although I understand that this is not something that we men must express, I would say that I am sure that no matter how it goes, it will be worth it because it is quite simply a fantastic experience. I am also a little concerned that we should do without Mrs Mette Abildgaard, bearing in mind the future of the children, because we need to discuss climate for a while. I had coffee in my throat in August when the Conservative Party chairman said that it was not just in the green area that you had to use your strength. I understand that it has been explained later that that is not what was meant and that we can still count on the Conservatives. Now it's getting serious. Now it is not just headlines, but it is now that it has to be shown in action, and that is why I really want to follow up on it, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen asked about agriculture and the imminent climate change. Mrs Abildgaard said that we are now starting with the transport sector, and I would just like to hear this: is agriculture, in other words a reduction in climate emissions from agriculture, seen with conservative glasses, part of a serious climate effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175520	Thank you for your kind words. And thank you for also recognising that the Green Agenda is important for the Conservative People's Party and that we also got it clarified when there was a little doubt about it because it is conservative heart blood. I can reply very briefly and very simply to that, sir. Jens Joel asks whether the Conservative People's Party believes that agriculture should also be addressed if we want to make a serious climate plan. Yes, the Conservative People's Party believes that agriculture should. We also believe that housing should be addressed. But I am just saying that, in the transport sector, we need to make a special effort. That is where we have a very large hanging party and where we can see that emissions are going directly in the wrong direction. And that is also what I have taken note of many of the parties in the Danish Parliament have come up with, namely precisely the transport sector, and how we can make an effort there. But we must also continue to have qualified debate in relation to both housing and agriculture, in other words how we will also make some changes there, while keeping a competitive Danish agriculture that contributes quite significantly to the Danish welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175621	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175623	But I think that is a good and clear commitment from the Conservatives that housing and agriculture should also be part of a serious climate agreement; I would like to sign for that. As far as transport is concerned, the Prime Minister has so far set a goal, and so have the Conservatives. Then I would like to ask whether the climate will benefit greatly from such an objective if there are not also very concrete, tangible short-term instruments in the climate plan that we adopt.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175653	Of course, objectives themselves are not enough. However, precisely in the area of climate change, I think there has actually been quite a broad recognition that we need to start by setting ourselves targets. That's why we made the Paris agreement. This is why the former government, with the support of the Conservative People's Party, introduced the objective of reducing Denmark's CO2 targets, is often what kickstarts action when it comes to climate. That is also what needs to be done in relation to transport: we must kick-start action. We need to kick-start a market that understands that we want the green transition; who understands that they can invest in the development of green transport solutions for the future because there will be a demand for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175730	We'll make it, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, before we take a dinner break. After dinner break, it's mr. Christian Poll and Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, who starts the debate. But first it's sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175800	Goals are probably a really good place to start, even with my friend, whom I talked to a few weeks ago. We came to talk about children, which is also one of the topics that has been up several times today. But we also talked about climate change, and what she told me was that she had come to the conclusion that she simply did not want any children. She didn't want to have children in this world because then they would have to live with the consequences that there will be if we don't do something about climate change now. As the rapporteur also says, Denmark has signed the Paris Agreement and must meet the objective of keeping the temperature rise below 2 degrees. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur might be able to reveal a little more from the climate plan and whether that climate plan actually stays below the 2 degrees with the reductions that Denmark is going to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175840	Now I also heard this interview with the woman who, because of the climate, did not want to bring children into the world. And I can't say for sure if it's the same woman, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen and I are talking about. But I thought it was a little remarkable that the woman who was at least the woman I heard on Radio 24/7 had been interviewed about exactly the same thing a few years earlier to Politiken, where she didn't even point to the climate as something that should have an impact on her choice. But it does not really matter what the point is: we have to act and we have to take action. In relation to the climate plan that we are going to present, it is clear that it brings Denmark a bit in the right direction, just as the energy reconciliation that all the parties of the Folketing joined before the summer break also brings Denmark a bit in the right direction. But it is quite central to say that this revision mechanism has been introduced. That is quite fundamental in the Paris Agreement: we must constantly consider whether new measures should be taken and whether new initiatives should be taken. Because what the countries have signed up to now to the Paris Agreement is not enough in itself. Further action will have to be taken in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175948	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004175952	Now I do not know who the rapporteur heard on the radio. At least I don't think it was my friend. But in the government's financial bill, 200 million will be set aside. kr. to climate and environment. We face the greatest challenge for humanity we have ever seen. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur thinks that it is ambitious enough to allocate only 200 million. kr. to the enormous green transition that we are going through.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004180012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004180016	I'm sorry if it's not the same woman we've been talking about. I did not know that there were so many women who apparently do not want to bring children into the world because of the climate. There's a little new revelation for me. Compared to the 200 million. kr. I don't recognize the number. A green billion has been set aside for the initiative that has come from the government, so I cannot follow the figure of 200 million. kr. Only 200 million have been set aside. kr. to these nature goals, which we Conservatives had written into the government base, and which are designed to ensure the vulnerable and vulnerable nature. And money has also been set aside for a large number of other green initiatives, so I do not recognize that figure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004180050	I have the honour to interrupt the sitting. We'll start the meeting again at 8:00. 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190038	The sitting is resumed. We shall continue with comments and questions to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190052	Thank you. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on having to be a mother for the first time. I hope that the rapporteur will enjoy the coming time and give it the calm, peace and time it takes, because this is a time that will never come back. However, I also have a question which the rapporteur may not be surprised about, so it is the green area that we are going to talk about here. The government has recently raised the so-called climate pool to 540 million in its draft budget. kr. and calls it the highest level ever, but the problem is that it is not new, additional money, as it should be in the Paris agreement. It says in the Paris agreement that when we find money for climate aid, it must be new, additional money. It is therefore money that has been taken from an existing effort in relation to climate aid, and I think that is problematic. What does the rapporteur dream of finding money? Is that good enough, or could you want more money in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190207	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll for a very relevant question. I share the rapporteur's concern about climate aid, because one thing is that we must do what we can to prevent the climate change that we see - we must put in place a broad palette of measures • but we also need to make climate adjustments around, and this climate assistance provides a very important foundation for it. It is always a matter of prioritising scarce resources. A great deal of money has also been given to make an energy settlement which ensures that we get these three large offshore wind farms with a total of 2,400 MW; we have given priority to setting aside more funds for energy research, which is also some of what really is batting. So it is some other areas that have been given priority, but in this way I share the questioner's commitment to climate aid and could also have a wish that it could be raised in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190300	Here you go, sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190302	I am glad to hear that, and I also expected an answer in that direction. But I think it is more hardcore than that, because we are talking about this amount and the fact that it is not additional money, that is to say it does not live up to the Paris Agreement. We have signed the Paris agreement, and it says that new additional money must be added to climate aid. When I ask the Minister whether we are living up to the Paris Agreement, he usually says yes, but I do not think it actually looks like that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190339	I must be quite honest and admit that I do not remember the exact wording of the Paris Agreement in relation to climate aid and additional funds, but I could imagine when Mr. Christian Poll formulates what he does, that he is right, because as I know him, he usually has it pretty well under control. I cannot say much more than that we need to prioritise the funds and look where we can find them. We have given priority to a great deal of money for the great energy conciliation that was concluded before the summer holidays and in which all the parties of the Folketing were included, and that is why we have moved quite considerably, and that is where priority has been given in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190410	Thank you. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190413	Thank you. I would like to welcome the rapporteur's comments: 'High-pregnancy Abildgaard in top form from the platform'. And I kind of agree with DR on that. I think it was a very well thought-out speech by the rapporteur, and thank you very much for it. As the rapporteur knows, my wife, too, has just become the parents of a little girl, and it is absolutely fantastic and takes up a lot. One of the things that is not quite super about becoming parents, however, is that you get worried about everything, both a lot of things that are not so relevant to worry about, i.e. whether they breathe at night, because they typically do, but also some things that it is actually relevant to be concerned about: pesticides and pesticides in our drinking water. I would really like to ask the rapporteur this, because 2017 was a real mess in terms of our drinking water and pesticides in our drinking water. There was a five-fold increase between 2016 and 2017 in the number of times water plants sent out water to Danish consumers, where there was more spray poison than there had to be. Almost 100 times it happened in 2017 that water came to Danish consumers with more spray poison than allowed. Despite the seriousness of the situation, we have a government that is totally passive. Nothing is being done. Can Conservatives and Mrs Mette Abildgaard be satisfied with that situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190522	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190524	Thank you, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen for the nice words, and also congratulations return. I've got the little tip for prenatal preparation, in relation to whether the kids are breathing at night, that you have to hold a small pocket mirror in front of them, because then you check in that way whether the mirror is dug, and then you're free to lay your head very close to listening. So I can pass that on. I very much share the concern about pesticides, and I must also say that this is a concern expressed by a great many Danes. We often explain it with the sins of the past, i.e. that you find remnants of things that were allowed once, but fortunately it is not anymore. But the question is, of course, how we ensure that in 30 years' time we do not give exactly the same explanation and refer to the sins of the past, which are then things that are allowed today. After all, we have reached a very broad agreement with the pesticide agreement, and it also says that in the autumn we will have to discuss further how to protect what are called the BNBOs, the drilling-related protection areas, even better than we do today. And we in the Conservative People's Party are also in favour of this with a willingness to find solutions to do more there than we are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190633	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190634	Yes, it is true that civil politicians very often talk about the sins of the past, and it is true that desphenylchloridazon is forbidden. And the rapporteur is also right that it should not be the case that, in 30 years' time, we are talking about the sins of the past with regard to the drugs we are using today. I am pleased that the rapporteur shares the concern that I have expressed in relation to pesticides, but I do not think it is satisfactory that we should simply refer to the agreement, because the agreement states precisely that we should talk about banning certain substances close to the boreholes in the BNBOs. But please listen: should we not be able to agree that the use of spray poisons is simply prohibited where our drinking water is most vulnerable, namely close to our drinking water wells? According to the Ministry, that would be the best protection we could give our drinking water. Conservatives wouldn't back it up?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190729	Yeah, Conservatives could do that. I just think that it will be a little simplistic with the word just because we have a great many hectares of land in Denmark, which are well-knit protection areas, and if you have to take them out of service by imposing a number of new restrictions, it goes without saying that you have to compensate the farmers, the landowners who own the land in question. And it's very, very expensive to do. So we need to find a practical solution to how it could possibly be done without very large bills and without conflicting with all sorts of EU rules in relation to state aid and so on. Let us meet in the negotiating room and discuss what is possible in terms of better protection of groundwater.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190808	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190813	Thank you. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the family increase. Good luck; I am sure that things will go well. Unfortunately, I cannot contribute to the fact that I have just had a baby, but I have five grandchildren, so the joy continues, I just have to say when the children grow up. Now the rapporteur was a little concerned about health and lack of care and closeness, and I heard Mrs Mette Frederiksen today give an example of the fact that in hospitals the nurses passed by those in the corridors because they did not have time and were stressed and did not have room to care for the patients. We made a suggestion that another 1,000 nurses should be employed. Can you kick that proposal up so that we get that closeness and care back into the hospitals? It would also help the sick, so that they would recover more quickly. I believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004190914	I fully agree with the questioner that we need to do more to give our skilled health workers time to care. That's where we have a big job to do. But it's not just about more hands. As I said, a great deal of irritation is being used on non-functioning IT systems, for example. in the Capital Region, where we have a Social Democratic Regional Council President who is otherwise committed to defending that system. We hear health workers who are frustrated by the amount of registrations and trouble and bureaucracy they have to pass through. We also need to clean that up, but I also recognise that of course it also has something to say about how many hands there are to help on the task, but I just have to say: stop where I think it is a free round for the Social Democrats to come here today and say that we must have 1,000 extra men, without even having heard any indication of how to finance it. Where should the money for it come from, perhaps from the same place as it would fund a whole lot of untouched forest and funds to roll back the media settlement and everything else? We simply need to look at some calculations of how the economy is linked to the proposals that come in sympathetic or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191019	Here you go, sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191021	[Sound emission]... there is a consensus on proximity and care, but when we talk about hands, it can easily be made. I don't believe that. I think it's a lack of hands. I think we've tightened this too much, for example. in the hospitals. However, the rapporteur also mentioned the problem that in many places there is a lack of access for citizens to general practitioners. It is not only in the sparsely populated areas, it is now also in the cities. How do you solve this problem from the conservative side? Do you Conservatives have any ideas about how to solve this problem? Because it's getting bigger and bigger, and we have to solve that problem, because those people have to have the same service, no matter where they live in Denmark, as the rest of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191111	The questioner is absolutely right that this is a complex issue. In fact, one of the places where you see the most doctors' houses have closed the access of new patients is in the metropolitan area, which I think surprises many, because it is difficult to provide the necessary facilities, premises to operate medical practice in. We propose from the conservative side that we increase our participation in general medicine. The assessment is from the PLO, the doctor's organization, that you have to get up and have approx. 5,000 practitioners in 2030 against the 3,500 we have today. This will require us to continuously increase the availability of general medicine, and that is what we Conservatives are proposing as an initiative at any rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191151	Thank you. Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191155	Thank you. I know the Conservative People's Party as a party that is almost as fond of the defence as the Danish People's Party and almost as fond of the police as the Danish People's Party. They both generate veterans. Unfortunately, they generate veterans with different rights in Denmark. This is because the previous government carried out a review of the veteran policy, in which all the veterans who had not been sent out by the Ministry of Defence were written out. And now that in the Conservative People's Party, like the Danish People's Party, you care a lot about our officers, and especially the officers who are also veterans, will the Conservatives not support the Danish People's Party that it is time for us to revise this veteran policy so that our police veterans and other veterans sent out by other ministries than the Ministry of Defence get the same protection as our soldiers have?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191253	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen for the question. He is absolutely right that this is also an area of concern to the Conservative People's Party, as well as to the Danish People's Party. We just have a special responsibility for the men and women we send out into the world to fight for Denmark with a Danish flag on its shoulder. And so I agree with the questioner that it does not matter who sends them, that is who is formally responsible for the broadcast. The Danish responsibility, the Danish gratitude, should be exactly the same. I have to admit that I do not know the various regulations that are, depending on who is emitting, appropriate enough to be able to answer perfectly clearly whether the same rules should apply. In principle, however, I share the view that there should not be a decisive difference. If you have served Denmark, you have served Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191339	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191341	Thank you. Now that it can be said that a Conservative holds the position of Minister of Justice, it was obvious that this initiative was taken and perhaps coordinated with the Secretary of Defense to have the appointment and then this time perhaps some negotiations on it, so that it will not just be the government's veteran policy, but the whole parliament's veteran policy. Because this is actually one of the few cases that brings together the whole of the Folketing. There is a consensus here that action must be taken. Is this something you could see yourself in in the Conservative People's Party, so that you invited widely to take responsibility for this very important area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191422	Well, I certainly think it makes sense that it is the Folketing widely working together on something that is so important, because we are together in here to press the button when we send people out in Denmark's name. So I will take that call with me, and I will also take it further, and that is probably as far as I can go on behalf of the party from the platform today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191441	Then it's mr. Serdal Benli, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191445	Thank you for the floor. From this point of view, congratulations are also to be warmly congratulated to the rapporteur on the increase in the family. Conservatives have historically been the bourgeois party that the Danes have known to deal with the weakest in our society. Perhaps Conservatives disagreed with us on how much had to be redistributed, but the very vaguest wanted Conservatives to help. Now we hear from the Rockwool Foundation and the AE that the government's cash aid ceiling is helping to make 25,000 children poor. We can also read that there are increasing numbers of applications for Christmas aid, etc. My question to the Conservative People's Party is: do you really think that a country as rich and prosperous as Denmark can be familiar?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191541	I believe that the greatest help and help we can give to families where Mom and Dad lack a job is helping to get a job; helping to get out and become self-supporting; helping to have a job to stand up to every single day and helping to set a good example for your children. We are in a favourable situation in Denmark with record low unemployment, where there is such an opportunity to enter the labour market. I just have to say that the last time the cash aid ceiling was abolished, from 2011 to 2015, there was an increase of 23,900 on cash benefits during that period. That is an increase of 20%. I don't think that's doing the kids a favor. I don't think that's doing the families a favor. I'm not buying these boundaries where you go in and define in terms of being poor. We must ensure that the Danes have work to stand up to. That is the best thing we can do politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191641	What we can then see is that the ceiling on cash benefits has certainly not had the effect that the rapporteur wants. We note that 25 000 children are still living in poverty. There I have to say that the good civil decency of the Conservatives is now history. I miss that, I have to admit. Can we really be familiar at a time when it is roaring out there, leaving thousands of children on the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191716	Can we really be familiar at a time when the economy is roaring out there, sending out the signal that the best thing we can do for people is leave them on cash aid? Can we really be familiar? No, we can't. We owe it to people to come out and take responsibility for their own lives by entering the labour market. We fight for this in the government and in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191736	Then we take the last brief comment to the rapporteur, and that is Mrs Julie Skovsby, the Social Democrat Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191742	Thank you. I would also like to wish the rapporteur and the rapporteur's family all the best in time. The government goes to the polls to continue together. I would like to ask whether the Conservatives can tell us whether there are any options for tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191812	I am simply sorry, but I had a little difficulty hearing the very last word, the questioner said, because there was a little noise from the other side. I suppose that...
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191821	We must respect the rapporteur so that the rapporteur can hear what is being asked, so I would ask him to be a little quiet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191824	Quite frankly, I find it a little difficult to answer it, because I simply did not hear the last question. But I can confirm that the three parties in the government are going to the polls to continue together. We are proud of the results we have achieved for Denmark; we are proud of a record low unemployment and an economy that is growing; we have the lowest number of asylum seekers in Denmark for 9 years, etc. That's probably the closest I'm gonna get to an answer, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191851	So let me repeat it. I asked if there is a choice on tax relief, whether the government wants tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191903	I can at least confirm that the Conservative People's Party wants tax relief. The Conservative People's Party basically believes that the Danes pay far too high taxes. For us, it is in principle that, when you go to work and earn your money, you must be able to expect to keep a significantly larger proportion of them than you do today, to yourself and to your family. We think that is quite a matter of principle. That's why we're against the inheritance tax. That's why we're against the top treasure. We think it is fundamentally wrong that there are 43,000 Danes who get less than 2,000 DKK. of going to work in relation to being on public support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191932	Thank you. That was the last question for the Conservative rapporteur. We are moving ahead with the Greenlandic mandates, and that is first Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, Inuit Ataqatigiit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004191952	Thank you very much. Last week I was in Greenland, among others. to participate in the opening of Inatsisartut. But instead it became a culmination of a parliamentary crisis in Inatsisartut. And the opening was postponed until yesterday, Wednesday. There is rarely a dull moment in politics, as in Greenland too, to a large extent. Unfortunately, it became a sad way of presenting our democracy to the outside world. It annoys me most for the sake of the people of Greenland, whom I think have deserved better. It is important that we create an even stronger society in Greenland. This week a minority government was established with Siumut, Atassut and Nunatta Qitornai. The democrats are a supporting party, and only for the third time in Greenland's recent political history have we got a minority government. Last time I heard that our minority government lasted three days, so now we have to see how things are going. Inuit Ataqatigiit has not wanted to be a rescuer for a political leadership in Siumut, which has failed to create stability in Greenland. Unfortunately, from my best judgment, the new coalition with its support party is not going to create the political calm and stability that our country needs. There is a great need for our politicians to put on their work clothes for the benefit of the people of Greenland. For Greenland is faced with a momentum in terms of boosting growth in Greenland. We are faced with an open door of opportunities that we must not let shut down. For the next six months, a decision will have to be taken with regard to airports, with regard to the budget law and to our main exports in Greenland, namely fisheries. We cannot be served in Greenland by politicians becoming an obstacle to development. On the contrary, we must help to create the framework for growth and increased welfare in Greenland. Instability and political unrest are the worst poison for these opportunities that Greenland is facing right now. In August the Parliament's Greenland Committee was in Greenland. We visited Uummannaq, Saattut in North Greenland and Nuuk. It is clear that Greenland, like many parts of the world, is experiencing rise times. Special sales of shrimps and Greenland halibut are favoured by good prices, and these are the conditions that create the growth of Greenlandic society. That is why we also believe that Inuit Ataqatigiits should be more active in entrepreneurship, construction and tourism, because this should help to strengthen the welfare of Greenland. At the same time, we also have a number of structural challenges, because where there is work, there is no housing and where there is housing, there is no work. We attract people all the way from Asia to satisfy the needs of the labour market, while many of our own are not yet ready for work. Greenland needs external investment. We do not have all the means ourselves, and Greenland must increase cooperation with several countries, including Denmark, in order to create jobs, growth and opportunities in the future. The protectionism and nationalism that we see in parts of the political environment in Greenland as well as in the rest of the world is a stumbling block for our own opportunities for growth. For years we have fought from Inuit Ataqatigiits side here in the Danish Parliament for Danish cofinancing in major investments and business development in Greenland, and on Monday I met with the Prime Minister and thanked him for his personal commitment to securing Danish co-investment for the expansion of airports in Nuuk and Ilulissat as well as in business initiatives, among others. via Growth Fund and Greenland Venture. Now we are faced with the need for investment to be translated into real development, and I hope that there will continue to be a good dialogue and the involvement of the Greenland MPs and Greenland rapporteurs here in the Folketing in the further process. In the course of October, Mr Inatsisartut will take a final decision on the extension of airports. Inuit Ataqatigiit has chosen to make its own airport proposal, which is based on the knowledge that we have from the work of the committee in Inatsisartut and from the reports that have come on an ongoing basis. There is no doubt that there is a need to invest in our infrastructure and literally help open Greenland up to the rest of the world. For us, it is crucial that neither the economy nor the labour market are overheated. We must also bear in mind that even with the Danish handshake we must continue to find 2.1 billion. kr. in the Greenlandic national fund to implement the airport projects. This is a very large investment, especially in a Greenlandic context. That is why it is also important that we do it wisely and that we do it wisely. From Inuit Ataqatigiits we will therefore also remind you in the debate that we need to invest in our children, in their primary school, in their well-being and in a good and worthy old age for our elderly. Citizens' access to health and to help and support in Greenland is not good enough as it is today. And if we do not also remember to strengthen our vulnerable citizens in Greenlandic society, then the distortion that already exists will be even greater in the future. If we look at the self-government law, then the spirit of the self-government law is that we must promote equality and mutual respect. This is a joint task which cannot only be solved by one party. That is why I am also sorry, also a little embarrassed by the incidents that took place when the Prime Minister visited Greenland recently, when demonstrators showed a lack of respect and took the demonstration to a place where it should not have ended. We all have the right to exercise our democratic right and to demonstrate when we disagree. We also need to know that when we do not show respect, we also work against the spirit of the law of self-government. The behaviour of a few demonstrators was quite inappropriate, and it is an attitude that I see as enormously unGreenlandic. Fortunately, I know that there are a lot of people in Greenland who share my opinion and believe that we are a hospitable and open people who really want to be a hospitable and open people. It is also important when we exercise our democratic rights to express our disagreement. If we look forward and look at the Prime Minister's speech, where there was also talk of equality, one can say that we need to know more about each other if we are to promote equality. I have supported the citizens' proposal to focus on the community in primary school in Denmark. Greenlandic children and young people know a lot about Denmark, but it is difficult when it goes the other way. And there must and must we do more. With the Finance Act, the government has set aside 40 million. kr. to strengthen knowledge about the Kingdom Community in Denmark over the next 4 years, and this is a very good step. The money could, for example. is used for grants to Greenlandic artists in Denmark. They could be used to strengthen Danish host families for Greenlandic students at post-schools, upper secondary schools and universities, or to ensure that there is more knowledge in the primary school about Greenland and the Faroe Islands. In the field of culture, I also think it is obvious to meet the long-standing need for an extra priest for the barely 16,500 Greenlanders who live in Denmark today. These are all real needs that I hope the government will meet. We would very much like to help provide solutions to this. If we look at foreign policy and security policy, we in Greenland have wanted greater self-determination, greater involvement and greater insight into foreign and security policy matters. And the Prime Minister, in his opening speech, signed this wish and found that it requires new ways of working together. Inuit Ataqatigiit is completing a globalisation project that looks at how Greenland can play a major foreign and security policy role in its own and common affairs. Unfortunately, this is in stark contrast to the lack of vision and concrete objectives of foreign and security policy in the Naalaksuisut's latest coalition agreement, because this requires us to think new. In addition to better coordination and past and closer involvement in foreign and security policy measures, we also need to look at how we strengthen Greenland's competences in the External Action Service and at the same time strengthen knowledge in the Danish embassies about the Arctic and Greenland. It is important that, if we want to play a greater role in relation to a global Arctic agenda, we also ensure that there is this knowledge about each other and that we share the knowledge that we have. Because Greenland wants a greater role in foreign and security policy, so strategic competence development of our talented young people from Greenland is also an important place to take action. And I myself experienced years ago being the first Greenlander at the United Nations headquarters in New York. Although 12 years had to pass before it happened again, it underlines precisely that there are not many opportunities for our young people to get out and strengthen their knowledge of foreign and security policy issues. It could, for example, be done. be that there could be more young Greenlanders at the Danish embassies, in China, in Russia and at some of the other embassies, who also work on Arctic issues. Thank you for the floor. I look forward to working together in the coming parliamentary year.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193019	Thank you. And then there are some comments. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193024	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her always good cooperation and for her always helping to make us wiser in the alternative when there are matters on which we are not 100% up to date and which relate specifically to the Arctic. And it's useful when we're in here that we can work together. Sometimes, when I sit and sweat a little over my rapporteurs and all that palette, I think about how many rapporteurs Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen stands on her palette in the Folketing, and among other things. the foreign policy, the global one, which the Prime Minister also mentioned in his speech, is one of them. I would like to hear a little more about how the rapporteur sees Greenland's role internationally. If we are going to play a more active role, what is it that we are thinking of wanting to play a role in relation to the global political situation we are seeing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193118	Thank you very much. First of all, I would also like to sign off on good cooperation. It is very nice that there is good cooperation between the different parties in the Folketing. Today I am the representative of Greenland, one might say. We have two mandates, but I represent Greenland today alone, and sometimes it also has its advantages that it will be the things that are important to us in IA that are coming forward. We have made a globalisation project because we believe that there is a need to bid in with something very much, what to say, citizen-close and concrete in terms of ensuring that we get some strengthened competences in Greenland to be able to further develop our foreign policy activities on the Greenland side. I think that Greenland actually has quite a lot of powers in relation to the law on self-government in areas which have been repatriated. If agreements are to be concluded in relation to fisheries, which is a repatriated area, then we have a long way to go to conclude agreements ourselves and to play a role ourselves. I would very much like us to look at the Faroe Islands too, which have free trade agreements with some countries at least. I know that the Prime Minister pointed out this about playing a greater role on the part of Greenland, and I find that extremely interesting to have discussed. And we would very much like to offer some concrete ideas in that process too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193240	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193241	Thank you. And then there is the whole area of security policy, which is also part of this global picture that we are seeing right now, where it is very important to keep the Arctic as a relaxed area. Does the rapporteur think that it would be easier for Greenland to play a greater role in security policy as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193303	Thank you very much. So, I think that the interest in the Arctic which I see is increasing, even in the years I have been sitting in the Folketing, translates quite specifically into that of the British, for example. is more present in northern Norway, and that the Russians and the Chinese also show interest in Greenland and Greenlandic waters, are some things we need to be aware of. In other words, if we want to play a foreign policy role, I certainly think that the more knowledge we have because I think knowledge is power on this issue, but also the more proactive we are, the more we can be able to ensure that the Arctic becomes a peace zone, as we in the IA believe it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193345	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193348	Now it is not a study group, but there is something that I would like to get help to understand. The reaction and the government crisis that has been on top of this agreement between Denmark and Greenland leave a picture of the desire to have the greatest possible independence and independence. But that it should, like, be more controversial to have a joint project with Denmark than for example. With China, I'm having a really hard time understanding. Therefore, perhaps I would just put the question this way: is there perhaps in what is going on now, the seeds that we can get a little beyond that anxiety of touch, where you can hardly do anything together for fear that it is being interpreted into whether it is a greater or less addiction, so that we might get to the point where what we do we do, when Greenland needs it and wants it, but also in a way that we do not need to become addicted to foreign powers?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193450	Thank you for the question. That is extremely relevant. After all, we have discussed Chinese interests in investments in Greenland, and the Americans have also made a declaration of intent that they are interested in investing in airports in Greenland. We are, of course, the ones who ask these questions, and I think that we also have to do so, about what the motives are for showing interest in Greenland. Personally, I would like to say that I think it is right, very positive, that the government has shown an interest in being a co-investor at Greenland airports and their expansion, and that it also points to business development and how we can strengthen business development across Greenland and Denmark. How can we help to ensure that when there is an increase in business development in Greenland, Danish companies also benefit? At any rate, I think that is an interesting discussion, because we do not have all the competences in Greenland. And this must of course be done in close cooperation with Greenlandic companies where it can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193550	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193552	I think that is a positive thing, and I also think that the very thing about getting better relations could then be business relations, educational relations or other relationships, maybe it is also that with such a historically strained word, the relationship can be slightly relaxed, so that these are the things that you can use each other for, but in equality. It should not be about some telling others what to do or some helping others who have not asked for help, but in equal dignity, where it is about doing something that really brings all parties a better place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193635	Thank you very much. That is also why I am, among other things, a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. is using this example in the field of foreign policy. If we ourselves do not have any vision of foreign policy, it is also difficult to come behind and point the finger at the fact that the government has not done enough. We ourselves need to set the direction in Greenland. There is really an understanding that has become more clear to me over the years, including in the parliamentary work, namely that Greenland itself has a huge responsibility to say what we really want. We know that there are a number of laws from the 1960s and 1970s that we would really like to have updated so that they do not help to hold back Greenlandic society but, on the contrary, help to ensure that there is a development in society. We have to do this together. It is not just Denmark that has to ensure equality. It's also Greenland that has to play a part in ensuring this equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193721	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193723	Thank you to Greenland's free voice for a good cooperation. It's a pleasure every time we have a joint task. I was a little shocked when I was last in Greenland with the Nordic Council, because it was right in the middle of the parliamentary crisis, and I thought: Why the hell couldn't the Prime Minister from Denmark step a little more cautiously? Now it is probably not all his fault, but to start formulating a policy with the Greenlanders before they have done so themselves, I do not think it is a good idea, but I think it is a good idea that there is money for your infrastructure. And then I think that the Greenlanders themselves should formulate what needs they have and what plans they have and get to work on it from there. I would like to know where Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's ideas are going. Now a framework agreement has been drawn up on Ilulis rate and Nuuks airports, but in what direction does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's ideas go in relation to infrastructure and especially with regard to airports?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193830	Thank you very much. It is the case that Inatsisartut will have to discuss this issue, and there will be second and third readings on 15 May and 22 October in 2018. Of course, we want to know whether the government also respects the political process that needs to take place, and I think we have confirmed this as well. I think that airport investment is a huge, huge investment. If you look at the work here in the Folketing, you will see that we are used to making broad settlements, especially when agreements are concluded that drag on for a long time in the future. That would also be interesting in relation to Greenlandic policy. In other words, we could help prevent a zigzag course, even when we are talking about large airport investments, if we had the complete, wide-ranging settlement, and I think that is quite an important point. When it is such a big investment, which also affects our children and grandchildren, it requires that it is a broad majority also wider than the 19 mandates that are behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004193928	Thank you. But I thought that if I had now been Greenlander, would I say: could we not build an airport and then see how it went and then build another one? I'd be really nervous about building two or three airports like that right in the air, because when 20 percent. The whole of Greenland's economy is at stake at once, after all, these are serious things that can happen. But it is good that the Danish Government has found its position on this issue. It is also good that a business fund is included. But I would like to hear about the need for money. Some Greenlanders say that there is no need for money, but there is a need for opportunities to make some money and that it will therefore be difficult to find someone who will spend that money. Is it also Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's view that, in fact, there is no need for business funds, but that real earnings and activity opportunities are needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194028	Oh, my God. I would say that there is a need for investment in business development, but what we have perhaps overlooked is an important part of the process, and that is that we must mature the projects. In other words, we have a lot of projects which have been refined, which have been worked through and which have a certain gravity and thoroughness, one can say, but they need to be matured in relation to their being ready to come out so that you can make some money. I think that the Growth Fund is very good and that a capital injection is made in relation to Greenland Venture. I think this is very sensible, but it is also important that they mature some more projects in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194109	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194112	Thank you very much and also thank you very much from my side for your very good cooperation. I was in Uummannaq here in August, and it was really a very great experience. I would say that the experience that was the most positive for me was that I was simply surprised at how much time there was in Uummannaq. After all, it is quite far north. But there was also a great shortage of labour, and it was both at the fish factory and at the construction sites we saw, among other things. with the new houses to be built for the many people who came in from the two settlements that have been shut down because of the tsunami. I would really like to hear the rapporteur's view on how to carry out the task of getting more labour out and getting more labour trained, because we saw, of course, that Chinese imports have begun. Well, of all places, you bring employees from China into the fish factory. I am not saying that they are not good, no, because I certainly think they are, but they are still a long way from home. So what is the rapporteur's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194230	Thank you for your question, and thank you for your cooperation. When we were in Uummannaq and in Saattut, we also heard about people who were out and could earn 15,000 kroner. In one day by e.g. to fish Greenland halibut or fish shrimp. It says it's also hard to attract someone to get 90 or 100 kroner. an hour standing in a fish factory. There's a challenge there that's probably hard to deal with. The educational aspect, because that is actually what I find interesting, takes time. It's in the long run that you can change these things. That's how it's 40%. of the population in Greenland, who have an education after primary school, and that is a far too low figure if you compare with the Faroe Islands, where it is for example. is 70%. So I think that education is really one of the areas in which action needs to be taken. That's the long, tough move. You also need to look at well-being and the social area to ensure that it is lifted. Not only can this be lifted on the short track, but I think it is an important focus to have the level of education increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194339	Here you go, Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194341	I very much agree that the issue of education and training is crucial for Greenland. So I would like to thank the rapporteur for expressing his opinion on the Danish investment in airports, on which the Prime Minister had recently reached agreements. It has to be said that it can be difficult for us Danes to see that we are offering a fairly large amount of investment and then we are faced with a rather violent demonstration. How much does the resistance to the Danish investments fill? Are many people behind it, or are they a few?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194432	Thank you for the question, because I actually heard it indirectly both from Mr. Christian Juhl and Mr. Morten Østergaard, and I didn't quite get the answer. If you look specifically at the political landscape, I would say that it is 10-15 per cent who are opposed to Denmark being a co-investor in the expansion of airports in Greenland. It's Partii Naleraq who was behind this demonstration in Nuuk when the Prime Minister was there, and it's in part Nunatta Qitornai who expresses some opinions and who is not so happy with close cooperation with Denmark, one might say. I think it is important to remember that it is a political minority, and often it becomes the voice, i.e. the Greenlandic voice in the debate, when you see it here on the part of the Folketing, and I think this is a pity, because there are a lot of wise, good people who go to work every day and who really want some development to happen, but that we also get some growth going and some increased welfare in general in Greenland, and that helps to ensure that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194538	Thank you. And then it's sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194541	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I very much appreciate that we also have Greenland's voice in the form of Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen today in the opening debate of the Danish Parliament. Thank you. And by the way, congratulations to the new government in Greenland. It is, of course, a minority government, as the rapporteur himself said, and perhaps there is less experience of this in Greenland than there is at home. After all, I am a great supporter of the Kingdom community and the experiences we can share across the Kingdom community. And there is plenty of experience to gain in Denmark in relation to having minority governments, so perhaps it is also a place where we can help each other forward. After all, we have a very good cooperation on the Arctic at all, and I think that is very nice. In a Danish context here today we have talked a lot about the recruitment of foreign workers. Perhaps there is something we can actually learn from each other across the Kingdom community too about the recruitment of foreign labour one way and perhaps the upskilling of own citizens the other way. However, the rapporteur, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, is talking a lot about foreign investment and how important they are to Greenland and the future economic situation in Greenland. What I perhaps missed a tiny bit, also seen in the context of a new phenomenon in Greenland, a minority government, etc. Sir. Morten Østergaard referred to this with study circles, and it is not because I want to make it further into study circles than it is, but I would perhaps like to hear the rapporteur's thoughts on this with the future constitutional situation for Greenland in relation to the Kingdom Community. I would like to ask whether it may not create some uncertain political conditions which may make it more difficult to attract foreign investment to Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194730	Thank you for the question. I will try to answer the specific question, but I also think that there is something such an underlying one, so I will try to discuss that too if I can reach it. It is the case that the coalition has pointed out that they want a new constitution, so it is still part of the coalition agreement and part of what you want to work on in the future. So we must expect it to be that way. There are different views, for example. I therefore believe that we have not seen the latest news stories in relation to a Constitutional Commission. It's a job to unfold, and it's a little difficult at this point to speculate exactly what it's gonna look like. The more such underlying is really more about the fact that, as stated in the Self-Government Act, we have to work towards equality. I would like there to be equal cooperation between three different nations in the future. I do not think that this is going to happen in the near future, but that we are constantly working towards this equality being the support in the cooperation that exists in the Kingdom Community. I think that is extremely important. Then it may well be a different constellation than the constellation we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194852	Thank you. It was more economic investment, foreign investment, in relation to political stability that I asked about. Perhaps the rapporteur could clarify that a little more. Otherwise, however, I would also like to comment on the airport projects, which have been dealt with quite a bit, including by a number of other questioners. In fact, I would like to ask the rapporteur quite specifically whether the rapporteur believes that the Danish Government and the Danish Prime Minister have involved themselves in Greenlandic relations by specifically pointing to airport extensions in Nuuk and Ilulissat in relation to these investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194925	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004194927	Thank you. I'll take the last question first. After all, we had a recent consultation in the Greenland Committee, where we also discussed it here, and I also asked myself why it should be right now, that is why this timing. There has been the first reading in Greenland of the bill on airports. Well, you can always discuss exactly when it should be and whether it was done in such a careful, good way. Maybe you could have done it a little more gelin'. That's what I'm gonna say. But it is there, and I think it is really, really positive. We have fought for it from day one here at Inuit Ataqatigiit in the Folketing, so I think it makes very good sense with the declaration of intent that has come from the government, and that is what I think we should focus on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195019	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale, and it is from Javnaðarflokkurin.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195025	Thank you. One thing with which I have been very concerned is the relationship of Faroese veterans. They were actually quite bad some years ago, but I have had a very fine dialogue with Danish authorities, with the Minister and other authorities and Danish veteran centres etc., and this has helped a lot. There has been a fine dialogue on this, and concrete steps have also been taken, both in terms of recognising the efforts of veterans and in terms of providing veterans with access to the services offered by the Danish state to its veterans. What's it like in Greenland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195103	It is fairly limited how much is being done in relation to Greenlandic veterans. We have about 100 Greenlandic veterans • 92 Greenlandic veterans. The Veteran Centre has been in Greenland during the summer, and it was the first small cautious step, you can say, but you can say whether you have been a veteran from Greenland, been sent out for the Danish defence, and whether you choose to settle in Greenland or in Denmark should not make a difference in relation to whether you get a help or not. What the Veteran Centre did was to give some knowledge and give some courses to the employees of the municipalities. I think that is a good step, but we are not in the end at all, and I know that the Danish Parliament will have to deal with a proposal here during the parliamentary year, which is precisely about strengthening efforts in relation to veterans, and I would urge you to bear in mind that there are about 2 000 of them. 100 Greenlandic veterans in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195202	Thank you. Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195204	One thing that is problematic in the Faroe Islands is the understanding of what veterans have done. Because it is not Faroese authorities that have sent them out, and therefore they often meet a cold shoulder when they talk about their deployment in the Faroe Islands: Why did you go to war? It's your own fault you feel bad. Why did you leave? Are these also attitudes that veterans in Greenland have struggled with?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195237	Thank you for the question. I generally believe that we are quite empathetic in Greenland, and I have never heard that attitude in Greenland. My bid is that most people are very grateful for the efforts they have chosen to make. After all, we do not have military service in Greenland, so it is a little random when people have been away because they have chosen to do so of their own free will, or because they may come from Denmark and then have chosen to settle in Greenland afterwards. I think that, in relation to ptsd or some of the late followers that many veterans also have, we need to go in and make an effort in Greenland if the need is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195316	Thank you. Let's move on. Sir. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195319	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It was sir. Christian Juhl, who caused me to ask for the floor, because one almost got the impression that he had the impression that the Prime Minister's commitment to supporting the decision taken at Greenland on an airport was inappropriate. He used the expression that the Prime Minister had begun to formulate politics and thus indirectly caused the government crisis in Greenland. The hypocrisy of Mr. Christian Juhl becomes a little clearer when he then says: If I were a Greenlander, I would only build one airport at a time. However, I would like to ask for clarification once again: do we agree that what the Danish Prime Minister did was to take a meeting and tell him that the Danish state supports economic guarantees in relation to what the home government decides, that is to say financial support for what the home government achieves by decisions in relation to what the future airport situation should be in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195431	Thank you very much. In other words, you can see that Partii Naleraq chose, among other things. Because of this statement of intent between Mr. Kim Kielsen and the Prime Minister, but also against the background of Mr. Kim Kielsen's side, stepping out of the government. So in this way it can be said that it has been partly a trigger in relation to the political instability that has been here lately. Then you can always discuss how sensible it is and whether you could have solved it in another way. But it was now the way the party chose to solve it. There would have been a first reading of this bill on airports, and there will only be a second and a third reading here in October. You can see that there is a statement of intent now. So does the Danish side, and so does the American side. I think it is important to look forward. I think it is important to ensure that there is close involvement, including of us as Members of Parliament. I know that a number of party rapporteurs or party chairmen were involved in the process before going to Greenland, and I would like to see us as Greenland members of parliament also being able to be involved. So involvement forward thinking I'm extremely important.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195549	Sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195550	We cannot both have a desire to involve the Folketing and then have a wish that it is Greenlandic self-government that has a decision-making power that we should not interfere with. A fine political analysis is being given and I agree with it, and I think the demonstration was indecent. I just don't think it is fair for the sake of histories to say that it was the Prime Minister of Denmark who formulated a policy when what he really did was to offer economic stability about a decision that the Home Rule Government reached. Then we can discuss whether it was a first or a second reading. The rapporteur himself is a member of a party that was included in the 2015 agreement, which, of course, has a different foundation from that which triggered the crisis. I think we should be careful not to put scare pictures forward in the direction that no matter what we do on the Danish side, it is offensive to Greenland's self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195703	Thank you. I do not really think that is what I am doing, and that is certainly not the intention. I think it is easy to involve the parties of the Folketing, to involve the Greenland rapporteurs. I also think it is easy to involve the members of Greenland's parliament and inform them of what intentions they have. And then you have to say, sir. Kim Kielsen, who on behalf of Naalaksuisut has accepted. So I don't pretend it's the Prime Minister who's triggered a government crisis. I see that there have been some challenges in the cooperation of the previous government, in the Naala Suisut. So I think there are others who have a responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195747	Thank you. So there are no more questions. Then we need a new rapporteur, and that is Mr. Magni Arge, Tjóðveldi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004195800	Thank you, President. Let me first say that I do not think the Prime Minister should fear for his welcome in the Faroe Islands tomorrow. I don't think it's gonna be that dramatic. We just ask the gods for good weather was a strophe that went clean in with us, living life out in the North Atlantic, where the weather can quickly shift from roaring storms to rocking silence. The glorious songs of the poet will be heard through the wind for many years, because we have a tradition of taking songs from other countries and cultures and often remembering them longer than they do in their home countries. In the Faroe Islands we are very traditional, but songs and melodies that have quality are also sustainable, otherwise they would not live on in our culture. But make no mistake, the Faroe Islands are no museum. We also embrace modern times, and we also have our own scalp that tours the world around with their music and songs. Eivør and Teitur - just to mention a couple of examples - are some that we value highly. Our cultural heritage in both traditional and modern form pumps the blood around our national body, drives us forward and holds our identity together. It gives us a great national strength, even if we are not so many. The Prime Minister also mentioned sustainability in his speech. He talked about sustainability and world goals and the fight against climate change. He also announced ambitious targets for green conversion that make a difference in the climate struggle. The global objectives and the fight against climate change are a global battle that everyone should take seriously. The Secretary-General of the United Nations said it quite plainly the other day: if the countries of the world do not take the climate struggle seriously now, we risk far more natural disasters in the coming years, which will do irreparable damage to many countries and peoples. That legacy has not come generations deserved from us who have lived so well from what we got from our ancestors. It is also a battle that we take to the Faroe Islands, because it is also very much about taking good care of life in the sea that we live on. We have also set ourselves ambitious targets to shift our energy consumption from fossil fuels to renewable energy. We have plenty of untamed energy out in the North Atlantic. And we are in the process of developing a sustainable infrastructure so that we can deliver the necessary quality that a modern society requires. With your experience as a spearhead in the green transition and our powerful nature, we can no doubt benefit from the exchange of experience and knowledge sharing on renewable energy. We all have to take responsibility for the global objectives, but as things are screwed up today, it is Denmark that is responsible for reporting to the UN. This requires coordination with the Faroe Islands and Greenland. However, it should also be possible to develop it in cooperation with mutual respect, as the Nordic countries do in the Nordic Council. The relationship between our two countries is such that, instead of looking for synergies, we often end up in conflicts around the Faroe Islands' freedom of movement. The constitution has been written and interpreted for Denmark's best interests, and with the Danish Home Rule Act of 1948 Denmark has necessarily accepted a limited Faroese autonomy as a kind of internal matter, but the world has not stood still since then, on the contrary, we have experienced a tremendous development at a constantly faster pace. The population has doubled and, although we have not introduced new land, our territory has grown from 1,400 km2 of land to a sea area of 265,000 km2. The transition from free access to the great sea and sovereign rights within its own territory has sometimes been painful, but has also created new opportunities and given a great deal of responsibility. We have assumed that responsibility. At that time in 1948 it was not predicted that Denmark would join a European Community in 1972 alone and thus distance itself from the Faroe Islands and later Greenland. The Prime Minister says that the EU is crucial for Denmark, but so far the Danish state has not agreed that the Faroe Islands need greater freedom of movement in the international community in order to defend their own interests and develop relations with other countries and markets. We heard the Prime Minister say in his speech that he looked forward to discussing greater Faroese involvement and insight into foreign and security policy. I think that is what can be called a very soft formulation from the point of view of power down to two of the old possessions. Involvement and insight are, of course, good, but it's about a lot more. We cousins have just as much desire to create growth and welfare as Denmark, and we only achieve this through our value creation and trade with other countries. Our welfare is based on our access to resources in our own territory and elsewhere to which we can negotiate, and it is based on our ability to produce valuable products that we can sell on the international market. There is a break-up in the North Atlantic like in many other places in the world, and it is driven by the increasing interest in the Arctic and the consequences of Brexit, which we do not yet know. The world market is global, and we are trading everywhere, even on this stage there is a break-up. It places great demands on flexibility and rapid conversion. But in the optics of the Danish state it is evidently more important to hold on to its domination of power than to create a flexible and spacious space. We saw it most recently when we witnessed the ridiculous withdrawal of an intention agreement between Greenland, Iceland and the Faroe Islands on cooperation for mutual benefit. We must, of course, develop our cooperation with our neighbours. It is the most natural thing in the world, as we have many common interests and common history. There has also been a lot of noise on the line, especially here in Denmark, because we export so much fish to Russia. This is simply due to the fact that there are no sanctions against exports of Faroese food to Russia. And I would like to emphasise that we have always been open about our trade with Russia so that everyone can keep up with developments through public statistics. There's nothing swept under the carpet. I think this is more than you can say about money laundering through Danish financial institutions - and so I'm going to disclaim more Danish banks in that account. The Prime Minister also said that there is no contradiction between Danish sovereignty and a strong commitment to Europe, on the contrary. We'll leave it for a while. Try to replace a few words, the text reads as follows: There is no contradiction between Faroese sovereignty and strong cooperation with Denmark, on the contrary. About 40%. of our imports of goods come from Denmark, and Denmark is larger on the import side than Russia is on the export side. We often hear from the platform that we have so many other things in common: history, friendships, families, education, legislation, etc. I do not think it is going to go away just because we are setting ourselves up in such a way that there will be equal partners with sovereign powers. On the contrary, I believe that new and positive energy will be released when the distrust that follows in the wake of the Late Colonial Home Rule Act disappears. If it is a mistrust of the Faroese's ability to manage its own affairs, which is the basis of the conservative approach to modernising conditions, then I can tell you that things are actually going quite well. The growth of the economy has been quite great in recent years. GDP per head The population is just above the Danish level. We were 25 percent. Back 17 years ago. And this has happened, despite the fact that the Faroe Islands individually chose to reduce the Danish block grant in 2001 by 30%. and freeze the remaining part of approx. 600 million kr. Public net debt has fallen sharply and is significantly smaller than in most European countries. The debt of households is significantly lower than in Denmark, and the government saves up in a structural fund. We have some of the leading companies in the world in the field of farming and pelagic fishing, and only yesterday our airline was designated as the best provider of air services to the Danish charter industry. Politically, we have implemented several major reforms in recent years, and the conditions for the lowest-paid have improved. We have also taken on greater responsibility with regard to the repatriation of persons, family and inherited and are working to get an agreement in place on the acquisition of the territory of aliens and parts of the aviation area. And despite the fact that elections are to take place within a year, the Home Rule Government of the Faroe Islands has presented a moderate draft Finance Act, because of course the public must keep back in a booming economy. Our economy is largely based on marine resources and access to export markets. This requires flexibility, capacity for action and rapid adjustment in a global economy. Of course, therefore, we must organise our political freedom of action accordingly. It is about the future well-being of the Faroe Islands, which is why dogmas must be done to prevent necessary development. I therefore recommend that the Prime Minister put on his political craft glasses when meeting with the lagman, and park the late colonial legal interpretations of the constitution and foreign law in the National Archives. They are simply not sustainable and therefore we cannot continue to sing on them. And if it's about giving something for something, we can reduce the block grant and bring our seats in the Folketing into play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004200846	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004200847	Thank you. It can be said that on Tuesday, when the Prime Minister gave a speech, there were two things I noticed. One thing was that the government is finally going to do away with diesel and petrol cars, and the other thing was this statement about the way to look at foreign policy when it is done with Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Now it was referred to by the rapporteur as a rather soft speech by power, and I can understand the intentions of that, but it was, after all, new tactics that we heard. Could I not add a little more words to what the rapporteur said about security policy, the need to cooperate with others than just Denmark in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004200930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004200932	I think it is incredibly important that, if we are to establish sensible and forward-looking cooperation, confidence must be created, and precisely in the area of security policy there is a lack of confidence, because we lack insight and we lack knowledge of what is actually happening in this area, what kind of activities it is, what we see in the Faroe Islands in a security policy situation. I can give you an example. The other day, when some warships had entered a Faroese fishing bank on the back of Iceland, they suddenly started shooting with the cannons and called up the fishing vessels and asked them to get away from their fishing grounds, because now there had to be a sharp shot out there.There wasn't a single person in the Faroe Islands who knew anything about this, and usually there was a warning about it before such exercises took place. It's his case. I later addressed a question to the Minister for Defence about what was going on, who was shooting, who was holding these exercises, but I did not get an answer, because the Danish defence apparently did not know who was inside Faroese territory and shooting with sharpness, or would not tell what it was. We need to do something about this kind of information, so we have an understanding of what is going on inside our own territory. Otherwise, we will not be able to give political guidance in terms of foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201057	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201058	It also sounds very mysterious and violent, it must be said. But is what the rapporteur is asking for, perhaps even a higher level of cooperation, is it at government level, is it at parliamentary level in the field of foreign and security policy? Or what would be the form of future cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201121	To be perfectly honest, I have to say that when it comes to foreign policy, we have full responsibility for trade policy, because we are not a member of the European Union and we cannot benefit from the agreements that Denmark has with the European Union. That is why we must make our own trade agreements. That is one side of the coin. The other side of the coin is that we have to negotiate with those countries whose territory we have to fish in, and in other cases we have to negotiate with countries where we share fish stocks in international waters. We also need to be able to negotiate on our own responsibility. At the moment it takes place in a so-called DFG pool with Greenland and Denmark on top of that which makes it difficult if we disagree on the cases. We simply need sovereign rights to conduct our own foreign policy and trade policy negotiations when we need them. There are other areas where things can easily be coordinated, and that could be in the area of security policy, for example. against NATO, or whatever else it may be, but it requires you to have insight so that you know what it is you are putting your back on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201224	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201225	Thank you. I understand the desire for increased self-determination. I've been following that story. It is a strange story, and it could be really cool if the Prime Minister or other knowledgeable people could give an explanation of what the hell is really happening, because it would almost be a scandal if it were in Danish waters that such things happened especially if it were us friendly powers, then we would expect you to get a message. I would like to know whether the steps on the way to self-determination for the Faroe Islands are being taken. What are the next steps if we now recognise that security and defence policy belong in the box which states that here we are self-employed, and then, of course, we decide for ourselves? What other steps could be taken towards self-determination so that the Faroese would find it a good and acceptable process?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201324	Now everyone knows that the party I represent is going for a full Faroese independence, so that step is really very easy to take if you can put it that way. But if we are to look at an interlude from where we are now and to that point, then I would say that there are a number of things that I think should be in play. One of them is that all the authority entrusted to the Faroe Islands should be irrevocable, and Denmark should also sign and make sure that it is published to all the nations of the world. The second is that the Faroe Islands from several prime ministers have been told that we will respect your decision, so that is quite fine. But there is a big difference between that and a nice statement by the Prime Minister to the Faroe Islands, which is part of the Danish Kingdom, if I may say so, at this time, because then we will end up in a conflict situation, in exactly the same situation that Catalonia has ended up in with Spain. If we end up in a conflict situation, the whole world can choose to close its eyes and ears and say: it is an internal matter; we cannot relate to this matter at all. But if we look at New Caledonia as a third example, which is to hold a vote on independence on 4 November, then they have based it on a 1946 UN Charter on the external right to self-determination, and that is something similar to what we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201457	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201459	Thank you. Now we have not, like the Spaniards, locked people up just because they have demanded independence, and I think that is a qualitative difference. One thing is that our Foreign Minister sometimes says that we should be careful not to go beyond the framework of the Constitution and things like that. We can discuss that ■ but I think that Catalonia is a very special case in which, in my opinion, we react quite aggressively to people who want self-determination. But that is why I think it is important to take some steps in this direction, which is why I think it would be important for the Faroe Islands to then try to formulate it and then try to ask the government to take those steps so that we can get it right. It is of course an advantage for all people to have the right of self-determination that they now want to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201548-2	Thank you. I fully recognise that Spain and Denmark cannot be compared, but therefore I am also surprised that Denmark has not responded to how Spain has handled this. Because we agree on common EU values on democracy and so on, and I am surprised that we do not do so. All countries have different situations, and that is also why we are launching a conference in a week's time in the Faroe Islands, which is about the right of self-determination in twenty-first century democracy, where we have people from different countries who are out in similar situations and where we hear how their approach is and how they see the situation in order to learn from each other. Another step is, of course, the dismantling of the block subsidy, because when you are not dependent on money from another state, you have more room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201640	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201641	Thank you very much for a fine speech. Tjóðveldi and Mr. Magni Arge is also very concerned about the UN's global goals, as we are also in Inuit Ataqatigiit, and in Inuit Ataqatigiit we also believe that the government has a responsibility in relation to Greenland around the global objective 16, namely peace and fair institutions • the whole area of justice and the whole area of security. But we have the primary responsibility at home in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands... is there anything we can do from here as North Atlantic mandates in terms of promoting the UN's global goals?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201714-2	I would say that I feel a little privileged that as a member of parliament I was given the opportunity to attend a conference at the United Nations last July which gave me an introduction to the global goals. And I have to say that I think it is one of the most important agendas that has ever been put forward, at least in my lifetime, and I would very much like to help spread knowledge of it and help build up support for it. Basically, we all have to move on to a more sustainable way of acting as citizens of the world, so that we can deliver the planet to the next generations in a reasonably reasonable condition, in the same way as we got it ourselves. But there are many milestones in this, and you can work together in different fields. One of them is about measuring the situation you are in in relation to the different goals, and what it is then for some goals you intend to make sure to lift and how to measure it. Much work has been done on this in Denmark.So far we have not yet made it in the Faroe Islands, and I believe that Greenland is not the case either. And then there will be crossfields that you mentioned, for example. in Greenland precisely in the legal field, I can imagine where there will be a need to strengthen them, so that you can report together, both Greenland and Denmark, that here is improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201843	Yes, please! Speaking time was exceeded. Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201847	Thank you very much. The second issue concerns foreign and security policy matters. The Prime Minister mentioned this in his opening speech, and I would like to know whether the rapporteur will make such a statement where the rapporteur sees the Faroe Islands, for example. could play a greater role in foreign policy. And with that I would also like to draw some attention to security and defence policy, because it can be said that cybersecurity is something we are talking about in the Folketing, but which we may not be talking about so much in relation to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004201927	If we are to take the security policy once again, we can also look at the location that we have, right in the middle of the North Atlantic, and the institutions we have built, with the monitoring of shipping to and from the Faroe Islands. The search and rescue service that we have in the Faroe Islands could of course be extended to be an active participation in monitoring systems in our part of the world and also in search and rescue in our part of the world. And we could easily put up with help in coming to the rescue where there are disasters or needing help of some kind. But it is all of a more defensive nature, because we simply have no offensive military at all in the Faroe Islands and will probably never get it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004202015	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. There's no more questioners. Then we need a new rapporteur, and that is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale, Javnaðarflokkurin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004202037	We can only see the changes we make ourselves by looking back on our lives. That is why we can only see the meaning of our work by looking back, and I think that the last opening debate, which is the beginning of an end, is a fine opportunity for that. When I look back, I must true the words of C. S. Lewis when he says: Isn't it strange how from day to day nothing changes, but when you look back, well, then everything is different? In politics, there can be a lot of days without anything changing. But when I started in this house, I talked about the deficit in Faroese finances. Now we have a nice profit. One of the things I was most concerned with was the large relocation from the Faroe Islands. I did research and talked to a multitude of people and, together with other good forces, took steps to take initiatives and to take a number of steps to reverse developments, and nothing happened from day to day. But now the large relocation has changed to an even greater relocation. I put a lot of energy into getting border barriers between Denmark and the Faroe Islands removed. It felt as if nothing happened, but now many of them are either softened or completely gone. This is an example of how things are going well in the Kingdom community, and if we want to understand why things are going well, we must also look back. Then we can see that the Faroe Islands have developed into an increasingly independent society. From day to day nothing has happened, but when we look back, we can see that everything has changed. In almost all areas we have had Faroese schemes that we pay for ourselves. It has strengthened the Faroe Islands politically, economically and identityally. I used to tease my dear colleague Magni Arge that back in the 1980s he could be heard reporting from the Sports Park in Copenhagen on Faroese radio: then Preben Elkjær is the one who puts it over to Michael Laudrup, and he shoots, and there are targets for Denmark, 3-1 for Denmark against the Soviet Union! It was the Republican in the back row who did it. That's how everything changes. Isn't that amazing? Now we're in international football ourselves. Our national team doesn't win as many matches as the Danish one, but the stadium is filled when they play, because it's our own team. Developments have almost without exception taken place in good agreement between the parties. When, for example, two months ago... took over responsibility for the right to property, family and inheritance, it happened so smoothly that no one noticed. But it made the Faroe Islands a little stronger, and the stronger the Faroe Islands become, the more equal the community with Denmark, and the stronger it becomes. Of course, the fact that the Faroe Islands are outside the European Union can only mean that we sometimes go in different directions. Currently, the Faroe Islands sell large quantities of fish to Russia. That the Prime Minister didn't mention that elephant in the room, I understand, but I will, even though the case is a little delicate. I also know that the trade could potentially cause problems for the government, which is why I would first like to sign that the government has not put any pressure on the Faroe Islands, as many would otherwise like it to do. In a debate at the last public meeting at Bornholm, the journalist who was chairman looked directly at me and asked: Tell me, Sjúrður Skaale, how can you with good conscience break the sanctions, sell unimaginable quantities of fish to Russia, build its welfare society on it and still look away in the mirror in the morning? Two prominent politicians were also involved in the debate, and they were not much milder in the mood. And recently we have also seen the same tone in the public debate in Denmark. But this case has many facets. When the Faroe Islands are not included in the Russian boycott of the EU, the reason is so simple that the Faroe Islands are not part of the EU, and EU countries are therefore selling everything but the sanctioned foods to Russia. Denmark also sells everything to the Russians that the Russians want to buy from Denmark. The Danish export to Russia is nominally larger than the Faroese, and it has grown by 10%. The last year. Therefore, be careful to sit on the far too high horse. Nor should it be forgotten that Russia became a market for Faroese fish when, in 2013, the EU wrongly sanctioned the Faroe Islands, and then it is not only on the Faroese side that trade can help prevent the conflict between the West and Russia spreading northwards. In this debate at Bornholm, a senior researcher from the Center for Military Studies at the KU was also in the panel. So he said on this matter: in the longer term, I believe that we are dealing with what diplomats call constructive ambiguity, that is, useful differences. And in the relationship between Europe and Russia there is still a trade relationship and, if we are to get out of the unfortunate conflict with the Russians in the long term, trade is one of the most important things on which we can build it. That is why I believe that what is going on here is very sensible, because it is something on which we can build something else in the long term. Having said all that, I must of course also say that there is of course no doubt about where the Faroe Islands stand, but, like Denmark in various parts of the world, trade and diplomacy are kept separate, one can also do so in this case. When the Prime Minister painted his picture of Denmark in his speech, there was also an elephant in the room that was passed over. It is so big that in many circles in the world today you cannot mention Denmark without people thinking about Danske Bank. I am not going to say much about the specific case, I am not in a position to do that professionally, but now that I started out with a C.S. Lewis quote, I have to say that there are exceptions. Sometimes when you look back, everything's the same. In 1934 Halldór Laxness thus wrote in his great work "Sjálfskært fólk· in Danish "Free Men": People believe that the bank's gentle embrace is in line with the lovely look, safe and strong, but the bank is probably safest by the superhumans who have good reasons to owe a million. 6 years later, John Steinbeck's anger reapers came out, and there we find this little dialogue: Yes, yelling the fortresses, but the land is ours. We've measured it, we've grown it, we've been born on it, we've killed it, and we've died on it. That's what makes you an owner, not a paper with numbers on it. No, you're wrong, the bank is more than people. Sometimes every man in the bank hates what the bank does, but the bank does it anyway. You must know that the bank is more than people, it is the predator. Humans have created it, but they cannot control it. This is how a parallel almost fictitious world of money has been described up to our day in art, most grotesque perhaps in the 2013 Wolf of Wall Street. This is how we have experienced this world in reality, from Lehman Brothers over several Icelandic banks to Danske Bank, and also in the Faroe Islands people have paid a high price for a money world that was blinded by the shining gold. Capitalism is good, but it must be a horse we sit on and control ourselves, not a horse that should be allowed to run right to where its instincts drive it. Or to use Steinbeck's terminology: The predator must be tamed. This has been started, and the government has started to do so, and good luck with it. Finally, I would like to say that my wife's aunt was a good person. She was a good friend of our house, and it was a long tradition that she baked balls for our children's birthdays. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They were kneaded and put in the oven that morning so that they could be served fresh baked and warm for the birthday. She suddenly and unexpectedly passed away a night less than two weeks ago. Her name was Edna. The next morning, Sunday morning, my phone rang, and a voice said, "Hey, it's Eydna, I just baked buns, you come over and eat?" It was my sister, whose name is pronounced the same way. In the midst of the shock, it was a beautiful picture of the chain of life that never breaks. Edna no longer bakes, but Eydna continues to bake. It is possible that Lars Løkke Rasmussen's government will in the coming months bake its last political buns, but although some others may be in the kitchen in the future, there will be baked buns that are almost the same. Because even if you talk up the conflicts in this house • conflicts are the driving force of a democratic system • conflicts are not the driving force of this house, it is consensus in relation to other places. If the opening speech was a starting point for the election campaign, then it will not be a battle where the two candidates for the post of Prime Minister are shooting at each other from separate trenches. What we saw was that the President of the Left politically tried to lie on top of the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, and then it did not seem so much like a war as it resembles a mating dance. You agree that on election day you have to be on top of each other, but you just don't quite agree on who should be at the top. But regardless of who ends up up in this marital dispute, I hope that my party's relationship with both sides remains as exemplary as it has been in the past. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203159	Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. There are brief comments and the first comes from Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203207	Thank you. It's kind of hard to come up with a few boring questions here on top of that nice speech. But one of our concerns is the knowledge of each other's countries within the Kingdom Community. This is not a new case, but I am going to take it up anyway, because I actually think it remains a problem. I've been looking for a Faroese newspaper here for a while and I could read it. I can't find any Faroese newspaper that writes anything in Danish, so it's a little difficult for me to keep up with, beyond what I can get from other source. I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on how we can strengthen this communication, including on the political issues that are taking place up in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203305	Thank you for the question. This is a matter on which I have been very concerned. After all, an agreement has been reached with the DR that they should place a greater focus on the Kingdom Community. The government has allocated a great deal of money to strengthen knowledge of the Kingdom Community in Denmark. When it comes to the Faroese newspapers or news portals, they are written for the Faroese readers. It is probably difficult for them to be in Danish, just as it would be difficult to get Politiken in English. But it is a pity that there are no Danish news agencies active in the Faroe Islands. In the old days, for example. Ritzau in the Faroe Islands. They're not anymore. That's too bad, I'll admit it. I understand that it is not only in this country that it is said to be difficult. Everywhere in the world it is said that it is difficult to get news about the Faroe Islands, because everything is in this almost secret language, which is only known by 50,000 people. That's a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203400	Thank you. Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203401	This is a little less problematic in relation to Greenland, because there are so many Greenlanders who are Danish-speaking, so there are newspapers in both languages. Anyway, we're gonna keep working on getting this thing going. I would like to know what the rapporteur's proposals are in the next areas that the Faroe Islands are going to take home.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203426	My party does not have a terrible rush to take back as much as possible for ideological reasons. We believe that when we are ready to take back some things that can be taken home without it being felt for users, we are ready. When we can finance it and we can manage it properly, we'll take it home. It is more practically governed than it is ideologically governed. But the next is probably the alien area, which is now managed in both Thorshavn and Copenhagen, and it happens many times that people who are going to the Faroe Islands fall between two chairs. Who's in charge now? Is it in the Faroe Islands, or is it in Denmark? It's hard to say sometimes. That's a problem. We would like to get more clear command lines when it comes to that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203510	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karen Ellemann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203513	Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale forever very excellent rapporteur speeches, it is a pleasure to listen to them. I just have one simple question. There will be no follow-up question: Who does Mr. Sjúrður Skaale to point to as Denmark's future prime minister, that is, after there has been a parliamentary election in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203534	Now it is a tradition that Javnaðarflokkurin points to the chairman of the Danish Social Democratic Party. That's the way it is. As I have said many times, I hope I will not be the decisive vote. I hope that what happened almost last time does not happen, for example. the Blue Block wins the election in Denmark, but loses power because there are four red North Atlantic mandates coming and surrendering power to the Red Block. It can happen, but I hope it doesn't happen. I think it's unfortunate if that happens. But we have to choose sides. We point to a Social Democratic President as Prime Minister. The second would be almost obscene, that is, that we put our vote on the auction after an election. It wouldn't be sustainable, so we're pointing to a red government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203623	Okay, here we go, sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203626	Thank you. It's just a recommendation to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. If he is writing my biography, he must not forget to take with him October 12, 1990, where the Faroe Islands played his second international national match against Denmark at the Sports Park. It was 1-1 for 18 minutes. Those were the most entertaining 18 minutes I've ever reported from. There were 50,000 spectators, and you couldn't hear a sound. What happened after that doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203704	What's the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203707	I'll admit, sir. Magni Arge to accommodate him, that he of course has some ideological problems, namely that he actually reported from the Faroese national team's struggle after the battle in Denmark, and he did so with even more and even greater enthusiasm than when he reported from Denmark's battle. It has to be said.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203727	Are there any further questions from the questioner? No. Then it's Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203732	Thank you very much for a fine speech from the rapporteur. We agree that there needs to be some more knowledge of the Kingdom Community in Denmark, and some money has been set aside in the Finance Act. At one point I was asked by a Faroese media whether it was not a good idea that we in Greenland also knew something more about the Faroe Islands and that the Faroe Islands knew something more about Greenland. I think that was actually quite thought-provoking, because I think that we could really get a little closer together, i.e. also Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I believe that there is much that we can learn from each other. But I would really like to ask a question: what does the rapporteur think this money should be used for? Some 40 million have been set aside. kr. to strengthen knowledge about the kingdom community in Denmark, i.e. about Greenland and the Faroe Islands, but some money has also been allocated to the cultural area. What could that money be used for?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203825	When it comes to learning about each other, I fully agree. The truth is that there are hardly two more different communities on this planet than Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and therefore there is a great need for one to know one another. Too many times you put it in the same booth, you put it in the same drawer, and that's completely wrong. So that is absolutely necessary. As far as the money is concerned, I would like to say that I would prefer that teaching material on Greenland and the Faroe Islands was made for use in the Danish school, so that all Danish schoolchildren who go to school for 10 years have at least suffered about Greenland and a little about the Faroe Islands. Now you can go to school for 10 years without reading a page about the Faroe Islands. That's not good enough. In the Faroe Islands we spend a lot of money learning all children Danish and about Denmark from 4th grade. So it is unfortunate that it does not exist at all in the Danish school. That is quite clear. I have no clear thoughts about culture right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203922	Thank you. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203924	Thank you very much. In any case, we shall be involved in making some suggestions as to what the money can be used for. After all, a citizen's proposal has been made which will put the Kingdom community on the school curriculum in the Danish schools, and a study has also been made here this autumn to start among Danish young people on how much they know about the Danish community. Is this work that you also support from the Javnaðarflokkurin?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004203950	Yes, of course. In fact, I myself did such a study a few years ago, examining how much knowledge there is about each other. It was a little depressing reading. So I strongly support the fact that this is being done. But I also appreciate the fact that the government has prioritised this and that money has been set aside for it, and the fact that the Greenlandic and Faroese flags and so on have been battered. It is also something that focuses and can arouse interest. So I appreciate the steps taken by the government that sits.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004204019	With this answer, we thank Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. As there are no more brief comments, we have actually come to the point that I can now give the floor to the Prime Minister for a significant final comment of 30 minutes, if needed. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004204039	At any rate, I take it as long as people who want my job can reach the Chamber before I finish and open the door to questions. I would like to start by thanking you for the debate. I apologise for my vote, but unfortunately I have had a cold, but I hope it will even work out. It has been a long debate. It has lasted almost 12 hours and, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen pointed out, time is a little strange. I am not thinking of that with the 12 minutes that disappeared immediately after the change of government last time, when the whole economic policy of the VK government was fully incorporated, but I am thinking of the time as time. That's what poems have been written about. Now many of us in the nature of the week have resorted to Kim Larsen. I myself did so in my speech on Tuesday, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen did so here today. But we have also lost another popular poet this year, a person that we also miss, namely Benny Andersen, and he wrote about the time: "We have 12 watches in the house/though time doesn't strike./ You go out in your kitchen/get cocoa milk for your slender son/but when you return he get too old for cocoa milk... You have to take advantage of the time while you have it. It's a description of the time that just flies away. Today, too, I think time has just flown away. I have enjoyed every minute, enjoyed being in the company of good colleagues who have made positive contributions. After all, I have been here for many years now, and this reminds me of an opening debate for the second and third years of a parliamentary term. At the first opening speech, there is still some adrenaline in the body from the election campaign. Something's gotta go out. At the last one things tend to tip, but in the second and third years it tends to be calm, and that's the feeling I have in my body now. I would like to thank you for that. I think it has been an interesting debate and a serious debate, but indeed a debate seasoned with a certain amount of humor and wit. Sir. Uffe Elbæk took up the theme. He said: I know many in DF who have good humor. That makes two of us, 'cause so do I. I know a lot of people in all the parties who have a sense of humor. For example, I thought it was quite witty that Mrs Christina Egelund dreamed of Poul Nyrup Rasmussen at night because he went to the polls at Gang in the 90s. It was a plan that contained tax relief. It's something like that, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen today gets nightmares about when he dreams about the Secretary of State, but there is so much. I am still glad that in 2012, while we were in opposition, we made a tax agreement with the then government, which gave substantial top tax relief. That's the way it is. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard made us all smile when she gave us this insight into her own pregnancy. It falls into different phases, I had to understand. Yeah, it starts with conception. And I noted that Mrs. Mette Abildgaard said at one point about this name competition: I have met many exciting people, but I do not remember the names of them. But I'm pretty sure that compared to the pregnancy thing, it's completely under control. But what made me draw on the smile tape was when she reported Mr. Pelle Dragsted for a strategy to grow into socialism. I can just say that with three children I myself have done everything I can to draw development the other way. But what surprised me most in this context was, in fact, when Mrs. Pernille Skipper wanted Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl on his knees. I think it was something with the microphone, but it was still down on its knees. I didn't just see that coming. Whoever, by the way, in such a political sense has kneeled to each other in the opposition, apart from the fact that I know that some have done so directly and on a more personal level, and I would like to congratulate Mrs Mette Frederiksen on the fact that I do not know. But some must have done so, because the opposition has simply succeeded in putting forward a joint proposal for adoption today. Congratulations. It succeeds when you do statistics on it, about every second time during opening and closing debates, and today it succeeded. So congratulations. I understand at Morten Østergaard that it is hiding in itself that there has now been a close agreement on foreign policy. It will be so interesting to see whether it is the Social Democratic Party that has agreed with the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Radical Left, or whether it is the other way around. I don't know if we'll get an answer in time. On the other hand, I welcome the fact that, in the government and our parliamentary basis, without making unnecessary knees at each other, we have been able to agree on a joint adoption, even this year, and there is nothing surprising about this, and in that sense it is not only the Danish People's Party that is a boring party. A dull government and a dull majority can be expected. That is how it is every time for opening debates, for closing debates, and so it is this year. So I would like to thank Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti for a solid and constructive collaboration. Because we have achieved a great deal together, and we must achieve even more together. That is also why our adoption is, after all, about us creating tens of thousands of new jobs. More must be created. We have given thousands of people the opportunity to move away from transfer income and into the labour market, a huge social progress, and they must be accompanied by more. We have made progress in all parts of the country, created a Denmark in better balance, moved and are moving 8,000 state jobs. This contrasts slightly with what was the movement under the last government, where nine people were net moved into Copenhagen, so it is only later that this interest and commitment have emerged. But more initiatives need to be taken to ensure a better balance for Denmark. This is an important agenda. And it follows up on what we have done, on the planning law, on the agricultural package, on cheaper ferry tickets and other things that have ensured that we now have employment growth in 98 municipalities, and that we, like Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also mentioned, that is to say for the first time, as in reality for generations enough, that the population curves have been broken on the small islands. We have improved welfare and now we need to strengthen our close welfare even more through a health reform with care, security and assembly for patients in the future. We must ensure a better climate, a better environment for future generations. We have also made absolutely necessary efforts to tighten up the immigration policy, and now we have to stick to it and move forward. Last year, the number of asylum seekers was the lowest since 2008, and it is not a natural law, and it is not only due to European decisions, because we have also moved away from being after my memory • 5th most popular asylum destination in Europe to now be in a 16th place. So it is not just European decisions, it is Danish decisions. We have acted with due care and tightened up, and the influx is now at a level that can be dealt with, and we want to maintain that. Denmark must be known for imposing high demands on the refugees who come here. The number matters. I have also noted that in the adoption of the Red Block: the number of refugees is important for integration. The number matters. Now we have to test whether you are serious and what kind of numbers you are thinking about. For the truth is that, although we have now got the number of newcomers down and under control, we still have major challenges built up over a very long period of time. And that is also why the Minister for Integration has today announced that Denmark will not receive quota refugees this year. It is not, in fact, because we really did not want it because, ideally, we want to have a situation where we have so much control over everything that the refugees who come are some that we ourselves invite into quota. That is why I would like to make a little of a theme this evening, which Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl raised the question of temporary nature, which is also reflected in the proposal for adoption. That sounds logical. I also think that sounds intuitively right, and I really think that is how most people think about the concept of refugees at its core. You run away from something you get shelter, what you escape from, change, you return, you build up. It sounds logical, it sounds uncomplicated. It's anything but uncomplicated. That is certainly not the situation in Denmark, we must say quite openly. Since 1997, up to about last year, in other words over the last 20 years, we have received 105,000 refugees and families brought together by refugees to Denmark • 105,000. Of the 105,000, 95,000 are still in Denmark here on January 1, 2018, which means that although it may sound logical, the situation is that nine out of ten refugees end up here permanently, and that is not good in the long run for many different reasons. It is about something moral, namely that if you flee and even have the opportunity to flee as far as it is to flee to Denmark in relation to war zones, you also have an individual responsibility to return and take responsibility for yourself and build up. It is also about the people's acceptance of helping, because I am quite sure that the Danes have also made this reference to October 1943 • is a generous people who want to help people in need. But it also rests on the premise that it is people in need and that it is a temporary thing. So I fully agree with the statement made in the adoption and, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has also reported that we need to take this discussion more seriously and ensure that we actually also have a set of rules and an administration that ensures that temporary is temporary. At any rate, this is a painful dilemma from the outset, because I have two such fundamental points of view that are struggling with each other, and we must see if we can find a way of reconciling them. One point of view is what I have just said, namely that you come here as a fugitive of war. Then you have to meet with an expectation that that's what you are and that the shelter is temporary. You have to go back home. You owe it to the country you come from. When there is peace, you have to go home and help with the reconstruction, that is what it has to be. The second point for which I feel equally strongly is that while you are having, you have to support yourself if you can, because otherwise the alternative is that Danish taxpayers should do so. While you are here, you have to maintain and like to develop your skills and be an active part of our society, so you are also equipped to take on the task of returning home. These are two strong points of view: temporary, temporary and self-supporting. The great challenge and the square of the circle that we have not yet dealt with, or the Gordian knot that we have not had cut, are, of course, how to unite it here. After all, a picture has been created of the fact that precisely the fact that you participate and that you work strengthens your attachment to Denmark in such a sense that you re-establish the right to permanent residence. We shall be discussing this, because I understand the view that I am now putting in the mouth of the Danish People's Party, but which I actually hear other parts, namely that temporarily is temporary. When I listen to Mr. Knox... Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the reservations on basic integration training, the reservations on the integration of refugees into the labour market, the possibility of training, I am told that this is precisely what is at stake, namely that every step in the direction one is taking can reduce the possibility of returning home. And if that is the bottom line, then that is a real concern. What is now going to be our political task and to which I would like to invite you is to take up the challenge and formulate a policy that unites these two points of view. It's not easy. That certainly means we're going to make tough choices. This certainly means that we are going to put an end to many years of politics, because if it were that simple, we would not have nine out of ten who, de facto, just stay here. Basically, I think we should do three things. Firstly, we need to put even more force into the work on repatriations. It's already under way. We have good cooperation with Afghanistan. If I do not remember much wrong, we now have the lowest number of Afghans sitting in the broadcasting position we have had for many years. I think we sent 47 home this year. We send people home, Afghans, Syrians, Somalis, but we have to do more. It's one thing. The second is that we need to find legal ways to ensure that working while you are here does not in itself mean anything decisive for the assessment of the link with Denmark. The third is that you have to earn your own money while you're here, whether it's for a short or a long time. We're gonna dive into that. We already agreed last year up to Christmas with the Danish People's Party that this was an issue that we should cultivate. We did not come to the end, but these are some discussions that must now be resumed, and I look forward to discussing this first with the Danish People's Party. I would just like to say to the Danish People's Party this evening that it will not be easy, because it will be a work that includes both conventions and how close can you get to them? But that does not shake the fact that the issue is important and real. Next week we will have meetings on the Finance Act, and I expect this issue to be discussed here already. I think it is common sense, I think it is morally right and it is absolutely necessary to do so if we are to put an end to many years of failed policy. Then I'll add something on top of that and maybe I won't agree with you then. Kristian Thulesen Dahl about that for me it is also a crucial key for us to have a slightly more nuanced view of it with foreigners. In my optics there is a huge difference between a spontaneous refugee of war or an illegal migrant who goes to Denmark and who we find difficult to get to go back home, and then the skilled Canadian or Indian or Chinese, or whoever it is, we invite temporarily into the Danish labour market to fill a job function on a residence basis that falls away at the same time you do not have that job anymore. Huge difference. I imagine that the more we can get control of this whole issue of asylum influx and temporaryity, the more openness we can have in the second discussion. I am not saying that we have solved all the problems, because there is still a risk that the external border of the European Union will start again, but I would just like to say quietly that we have brought the figure down to the lowest for nine years. And if you go deeper into the figures, you will see that they have actually fallen more, because when we determine the number of asylum seekers, we are not only looking at those who are standing at Padborg and knocking on, then we are also looking at those who are in Denmark on a different basis and are seeking asylum, and that can for example. be a person who has come in through family reunification and where it may crawl in the marriage, or what I know, and then you would like to seek your own residence. And if you look at the proportion of those seeking asylum, who are looking for it on this basis, that they are already here on a legal basis, you will see that it is an increasing proportion, which this year after my best memory is 28 per cent. So 28%. Of the 2,500 who applied for asylum this year, this was already on a legal basis. So the number that comes in across the border is low, as has rarely been seen before. It must be kept under control, and we must now turn our efforts towards ensuring that temporaryness becomes temporary and that we ensure that people earn their own money in the meantime. Let it be about that. But there is, of course, the connection to the second debate that has also been here today, in various forms of welfare, that if we do not have these things under control, we are weakening our opportunities to develop our welfare society. And that is where, when I listen to the debate, there is a slightly different appetite, that is to say, what consumption targets you should have and that sort of thing, but I do not hear any crucial disagreement. After all, there is a strong Danish consensus that we like the Danish welfare society. And that is with good reason, because I agree with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that it is a good society and we need to talk about it. I think you can afford to be proud of that, even if you know very well, and I know that there are nurses running fast. I also know that there are elderly people who do not have the care they need, and I also know that there are young people vulnerable who wait too long for proper help. There is now, and that was there a year ago, and there was also under the last government, and there will be under the next government as well. It's never gonna be perfect, but if we're gonna be honest with each other, Jacob Mark says that all children experience that there isn't enough time for them, so I think it's quite a claim, and it doesn't match my own picture of Danish children, i.e. that all children experience that there isn't enough time for them. My picture, and it is actually supported by the facts, is that the vast majority of Danish children thrive well. But we are in Denmark, so we must have even higher ambitions, and we have that for the children, for the elderly, for the vulnerable, for the whole of the core welfare, and it is my ambition, therefore, that we should create more coherence, more closeness, more care, not by tearing down, but by building up on the results that we have already achieved, as of course. is billions investment in hospitals, the collection of specialties, clear patient rights, the fact that where lung cancer was previously operated at around 70-80 different addresses, you now do so at about a dozen, but with much higher quality in treatment. I stand by all that, and I even think that it can be called progress. Now I think the time has come for us to build on it with a new health reform in which we create coherence, closeness and security for man, the patient and the citizen progress step by step. A good example of this is the medical helicopters. After all, Mrs Mette Frederiksen asked for the exact date of the medical helicopters hanging around the city picture, and there I can tell you that it is a Eurocopter EC135 from Airbus, produced in 2013 and 2014. And it is true that then I was not in government, but on the other hand it was my health minister, Bertel Haarder, who at the time was involved in deciding to have and inaugurate the first medical helicopters. It happened in 2010. But it may be that you missed it, because it was 1 May, and there you have probably been in the Common Park. You can fight about it, but if you now lift up a little in the helicopter and see it all from there, the story of the medical helicopters is, in fact, also the story of one of the many examples that show that we jointly improve the safety of our citizens. That is a step forward, and that is what has led us to have 75 billion today. kr. more in fixed crowns cleared of inflation than we had in 2001. It is an investment we have made together under changing governments, since most of them have had a Prime Minister from the Left, but nevertheless. 75 billion kr. I would also like to call it a step forward. I know that you may not be so much for figures, but I still think that when the number war has run and you have tweeted about a reply from the Ministry of Finance, it is true that from 2011 to 2015, when you were last in government, you agreed with the municipalities that they agreed with the municipalities that their service framework should be reduced by 3.5 billion. kr. Use 3.5 billion. kr. Less! That is what the then government said to the municipalities. Since the change of government, we have said the opposite: spend some more money, spend 2 billion. kr. More! I think this is a step forward. If that is possible, then it is because we basically have a healthy economy based on sound reforms. Mrs Mette Frederiksen also mentioned this. I think Mrs Mette Frederiksen said that we agreed on some, but we did not agree on some. I have agreed with all of them: the pre-retirement reform, the unemployment benefit reform, the reform of cash benefits, etc., which has enabled us to keep the recovery going today because we have a job supply that we created at the time. It is true that at a start we did not agree, but I am glad that Mrs Mette Frederiksen did not shake her hand at all when, as one of her first ministerial deeds back in 2011, she signed the bill which my then government had adopted together with the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party and which is one of the main reasons why we have a healthy public economy. I am very pleased about this, as I am also pleased that the then government wrote into its government base that the economic policy of the government of the VK would be pursued in its entirety. You can be happy with that. It may have been bad for the credibility of social democracy, but it was good for Denmark. Thank you for a good debate, also to the representatives of the North Atlantic, who could not be here all. Mrs Aleqa Hammond has not had the opportunity to be here today. She sent me a letter in which she among other things. welcomes the Danish investments in Greenland. I would like to sign for this, and I would also like to sign up to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for the positive statements on exactly the same subject and, incidentally, the commitment that exists and the dialogue that we have. Thank you, too. Magni Arge. I am very pleased that I have been comforted that I can go to the Faroe Islands tomorrow without fearing how I will be received when I arrive. It is so in stark contrast to the five lambs I must up and slaughter they fear my arrival. They've never seen such a happy amateur, but it's gonna hurt them. Thank you, sir. Magni Arge and Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. We have a debate to take with each other that we cannot finish in detail tonight. However, as both our Faroese members have said, and as Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has said, there is the question of how we ensure that the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively have a voice of their own, a clearer voice in foreign policy matters. It is a debate that I am open to when it is carried out on an enlightened basis, and that is why I agreed at the Kingdom meeting last summer on Christiansø that work should be set in motion which I hope will form the basis for us to have just such a discussion on how, with respect for the provisions of the Constitution and the DFG system, we can meet what I regard as legitimate Greenlandic and Faroese interests to have our own identity and maximum own voice in foreign policy matters. That is why I would also like to say in relation to the incident which Mr. Magni Arge briefly referred to the fact that I know that the Minister for Defence has reached out to the person responsible for foreign affairs in the Faroese Home Rule Government with a view to a very concrete dialogue on the recent incident. It has been another constant feature here today that we have all met people, apart from the Conservative rapporteur, who has met so many exciting people that we cannot remember the name of them, and it was of course with references, and I think that has been a good thing to listen to and to testify that we are not always locked behind the thick walls. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has met Jesper. Mrs Britt Baker has met so many people that she can no longer remember who is Benny Engelbrecht and who is Morten Bødskov, but a fine user guide has been sent out, I can see on social media, so that mistake will never happen again. Mrs Pernille Skipper has received a letter from Karina, and that is how we have all met some. I've also met some, and I might want to share that with you at the end, because the other day I had a group of children at the office, among other things. Louis and Simon and Lea, three school students, and we discussed climate change, which is a serious issue, but it was still a good day in the office because there was a huge commitment. The little Louis says at some point that if we don't fit well enough on the ground right now, we must quickly find a new earth to which Simon replicated: Yes, but it may be that they don't want us living. Then I just think that perhaps you should listen a little to the children, because we are at least faced with a great task and the greatest challenge of our time, and it may be that the words they put on it are a little inaccurate, but that is what it is all about. So we have a huge task that is nevertheless necessary to solve, and so I would also like to sign for what I see as a fairly broad support for the ambitions I announced the day before yesterday, on top of a common objective to free myself from fossil fuels by 2050, saying: no petrol and diesel cars by 2030 and only zero-emission cars by 2035. Broad support is good because it is a huge challenge. It can be dimensioned in many ways, but just a figure that can be drawn forward is, of course, that today we have total revenue from registration, ownership, fuel and other car-related taxes of 50 billion. kr. kr. Now this common ambition is growing that we have to get rid of it, that is to say away with it, with all those cars, but with that we also smoke just 50 billion. kr., which of course puts all the debate that has taken place today, about who can use which thing, and how many crowns to be found for a nurse or five, in perspective. To put it in Danish: it is a huge hole in the box. So I would just like to say thank you for the great support for the objective, because we will need it when we have to meet it in the coming years and find a way to do it where it will not only be environmentally sustainable, but in other words where the welfare society also continues to be linked. So thank you for the support from Mrs Mette Frederiksen, on behalf of Mr. Morten Østergaard's side, by others, by Mr. Uffe Elbæk's side, where I sense that the enthusiasm is so great that one might even consider taking a driving licence if we can take care that it is an electric car that you will be sitting in. Thank you for the many positive statements, and thank you for your commitment. I'm looking forward to working together. The parliamentary year officially started two days ago. The government may have started a little with a proposal or two or six; there will be more climate change next week. We have a lot of important tasks on the programme. We must move forward, we must make even greater progress. After all, I am an optimist by nature and do not find it difficult to stay in a high mood after tonight's debate, because things are going well in Denmark. It's actually going pretty well. And then, in time, it flies away. So if I could just finish off with another little time picture from Benny Andersen. He writes somewhere: "One's daughter comes home from school/gos out to hinch/come in a little after/and ask if you want to take care of the little one/while the man and she go to the theatre/and while they are in the theatre/move the little one with some hassle/up in 3. G. ■ One must take advantage of the time while one has it, and that is why I also hope that Parliament is prepared to take advantage of the time now for the parliamentary elections, which will come on 17 June next year as the latest, to have a large, common, important political agenda lifted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004211238	Thank you to the Prime Minister, who actually almost hit time precisely. Now I shall introduce a new rule here in the Things, namely that the rapporteurs have double speaking time here for the questions. This means that you actually have 2 minutes in the first place and 1 minute later. And that's a change; it's kind of a doubling. But I think that's almost what you guys used to do. So maybe it's to deal with. Now we're testing the system. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004211326	I actually think we're sitting here looking at each other a little bit; at least I wasn't aware of that rule change. But a little extra time will do good. The Prime Minister A codification of existing rules must be understood). Thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply. After all, I have chosen today to use the speaking time allocated to me to talk primarily about welfare. I am not really so worried about the number war that the Prime Minister will always try to start, not even the advertisements, and 75 billion. kr. one way and 75 billion. kr. The other way. Because I am actually quite convinced that reality is the best witness we have. And yes, the Danish welfare society is relatively, in comparison with most other countries, a completely fantastic society, but every day we make political choices that make us strengthen or weaken it. And no matter how you turn it around, if you spend the money on tax cuts and all that is involved, there is less money to spend on cancer treatment; then there is less money to spend on the children that I actually think Mr. Jacob Mark is preoccupied with those who are most exposed and need more adult contact; then there's less money for our most mentally vulnerable; then there's less money for the older people who long before both the Prime Minister and I were even born... started building up this society, have been an active part of our labour market and made their contribution, and now after a long life need the community's help and experience that there isn't enough time. That's why I'm talking about welfare. And when we do not choose to use the room for manoeuvre for tax relief, then we can afford to hire more nurses, we can afford to give priority to the education of young people rather than year after year to cut back on what is the most important thing, namely the ability of our children and young people to improve their skills. Then I have a question. The government we have today has talked about several times and wanted to reduce pension conditions in Denmark and also asked the worn-out Danish employees to work longer. We have prevented it effectively, wisely and well, but I think that the question today must be whether it is not really still the policy of the government. Is it still the Prime Minister's policy, and is it still the Prime Minister's position and wish that the Danes should work longer, in other words that the retirement age should change?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004211603	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004211608	In fact, there are probably two questions in it when it is asked whether it is my position and my wish that the Danes should work longer. And then it will be passed on to whether or not the retirement age should be increased. In relation to the first, it is certainly my wish that the Danes should work longer. And I can see that is a wish that the people also have. And I am delighted that a large part of the employment growth we have in these years is, of course, covering up the fact that the +60-year-olds are more in the labour market than they were before. There is, in fact, a commitment of many seniors who would like to work. That is also why I am looking forward to seeing that in the Finance Act negotiations I look forward to a distance, because it is after all the Minister of Finance who is leading them to make the second half of the discussion and the agreement we had with the Danish People's Party in the spring on how to create a further incentive for seniors to stay in the labour market. After all, we have come some way by addressing the problems of interaction. So in relation to the wish: yes, I want people to have an opportunity to stay on the labour market if they want to. To the second part of the question of whether I want to force a higher retirement age home: No. And I really don't have any ambition about that. I fully admit that, in the overall plan I put forward in 2016, and also in the run-up to the present government, I have had the view that the main aim was to advance what we have already decided with a very large breadth in the Danish Parliament. There was no appetite for that. And you can only advance things once. Well, we've sort of agreed quite broadly, and I sense that everyone is on guard about how the retirement age linked to life expectancy is going to increase. And if you look at it, you can see that, compared to those who were and those who are coming, there is a group around right now that everything else just like that gets better pension terms than those who were and those who are coming. And that is why we had the view that perhaps something could be brought forward. There was no appetite for that, which is why it has fallen away. And when it cannot be brought forward, it cannot be brought forward. And so there is virtually nothing more to say about it. So if you're going to translate this into Danish, so it can't be misunderstood, then I have no plans to propose further tightening of the retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004211830	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004211835	It is quite true that there was no appetite for it, and of course there was not that either of us or others, and it is quite simple because we think it is unreasonable that some of those who have the hardest jobs should be told that they should work even longer. However, I know that the government's economic policy still has to be based on a massive increase in labour supply, and I do not believe that the government will get a majority in order to start importing skilled labour at the wage level that the government wants. We have prevented later withdrawal, and what is the increase in the supply of labour that the government wants? Is it deterioration of the SU, is it deterioration of transfer income? What is it that is waiting for? I think the Danes deserve an answer to that already.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004211928	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004211932	Little mirror, little mirror. Perhaps that was a question to ask yourself, because here today we have just stood and brought ourselves up with the amount of money available in the government's economic policy. This is what the Social Democratic Party has, and not a penny more, not a penny more, because there is not a single constructive, forward-looking proposal from the Social Democratic Party to make Denmark richer, not one. That is also why we are so imprecise about everything, we have put forward proposals for financial legislation where the only figures are the page numbers. I can say that our economic policy is entirely linked, because in calculating the amount of available funds, nothing else has been calculated but what we have in our hands, what we have in our hands, decisions we have, so it is true that we have an ambition, but we have not grasped an ambition that we have not achieved. We would like to make Denmark even richer on top of what we already have. That is also why yesterday we presented a proposal for more flexible access for foreign workers, because it could be one of the ways of getting a little better supply of labour. That is why I have fought for it, and I also made a great deal of it in my reply before, namely to insist that we get the foreigners who are in Denmark to work, that is to say the asylumants and the families together, because if we increase their activity rates when they are here, it will contribute positively to the economy, and that makes Denmark richer, also richer than what is in the available amounts we already have, because they are calculated with the employment rate we have. So there's a lot of places to go. Our economic plan is linked, we also have an appetite that we would like to make Denmark yet
ParlaMint-DK_20181004212109	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004212117	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his line here a moment ago. In fact, I think it was beneficial to hear that the Prime Minister took such strong ownership of the issue of an active return policy and a change in the refugee policy that has been going on for decades. It was also good to illustrate with some figures what this is actually about, i.e. that nine out of ten coming to Denmark via the asylum system, the family reunification system, ends up staying in Danish society. And that it is in stark contrast to the common sense which lies in receiving help for a temporary period, and then, of course, one has both morally and legally an obligation to return and help rebuild one's country whenever possible. And, of course, I have the expectation that with the commitment of the Prime Minister in his reply to this, we can achieve some results in the negotiations that will be held here in the autumn on this subject. I would say that I think it is very good in that when we took this up well over a year ago in the negotiations we had there, it was probably a rather sluggish start we had on it. But now we have to reach the goal. And our commitment to this is also based on the fact that we have a statement from the Ministry of Finance that we have quite large billion costs that burden public funds every year, 36 billion. kr., because we don't have control of this area. And that also means that if we get to the point of sending you home and you actually are, then it's exactly right that the Prime Minister says that our commitment isn't about not doing anything while you're here. That's not what this is about. But once we've connected these things together, it's because we've been told that if you continue to have the policy that you have in Denmark today in relation to integration, then we'll have more difficulty getting people repatriated afterwards. And that's why we linked these two things together. So we look forward to the Prime Minister and others enriching us with what opportunities there are for solving what the Prime Minister calls the Gordian knot, cutting it off so that we can get an active return policy going.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004212330	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004212333	Thank you. I would very much like to acknowledge that, in other words, it is so clear that the question of people's participation in employment, their self-reliance, is not based on the principle that it is bad, but, logically speaking, rather the opposite. In other words, it is best for people to earn their own money, if not the fact that they earn their own money makes it impossible for what is the ambition to be temporary. That is very, very positive. And then the hard work starts. Because it is true that the assumption has at least been what they say in the Tuesday analysis; perception is reality• that the fact that one learns Danish, that one works, reinforces one's ability to stay. Now we've analysed it to prepare these discussions, and it's not on the flat hand. But we are going to dive into how we can cut it off, so that we can both demand that we support ourselves and that we do not re-establish the right to remain here permanently. I look forward to the negotiations on this. You just don't have to conceive, and that's not what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl; it's probably more said to all of us that this is going to be easy. Because it is clear that if you have that view and I have been doing this for a number of years, that shelter is temporary and that you have to leave when the conditions are there, it also means that the Syrian family, who has been in Denmark for a number of years and earned its own money and, in a way, managed well, must go home if circumstances are to return home. Also when the whole village raises flags and walks in torch parades and waves. And that is where it has to be tested, and we have to be honest with each other about it. Because that's how it must be. Then we have a labour market policy which will enable us, moreover, to apply as a labour force once we have returned home if we meet the qualifications. And there will then be a different appetite to say how much money you have to earn to get back in. And there's probably some skims here. Because I predict that some of those who will mourn the most that people have to travel will be the same who will fight most against people having an opportunity to come back if they had not already been here. So there's a lot of things under the surface here. But first of all, a receipt for this constructive approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004212615	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004212618	It is an absurdity if the fact that people are treated properly while they are staying in Denmark, for example, should prevent a country from sending people back home when the possibility is there. We have to look at it here in such a way that if some people who are temporarily staying in Denmark actually come home with some enhanced skills, then that village must find out that it is a plus. Then we've done a good job. If there are international conventions that make it difficult for Denmark to make what is common sense, then I also have to report to the Prime Minister that it is really the international conventions and the interpretation of them that is wrong with them. And there we may look a little differently at what to dare to do. In any case, I think we need to be prepared to challenge the definitions of the international conventions on such things as this. For let us say that a large majority here in the Folketing agrees that the most natural thing is, of course, that people are well and earn their own money, etc. while they are temporarily staying in Denmark, and then they have to go home afterwards. But if it then means that we cannot give them the opportunities that we cannot implement common sense, because they then lose the opportunity to come home, then it is not common sense that it is wrong to do so. Then it is the conventions and practices surrounding the conventions with which it is wrong. And then we must also dare to challenge the conventions if necessary. But I'm looking forward to a 4-5 exciting weeks, because that's what we've got, I guess, in relation to making a financial agreement. And with what the Prime Minister has announced in relation to the severity of this, I can see that it will be late evenings. But we are ready for that too. This is really gonna have to get a shot at the gay, considering if we can get the result.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004212757	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004212801	Thank you. I am not going to prolong the exchange of words, because it is simply confirming the commitment that we would like to put a great deal of energy into that with all the difficulty levels. After all, it is about Danish legislation, it is about our administrative practices, and it is probably also about what resources we put up in terms of control and the entire repatriation regime. And this is probably also about interpretation of the convention. And yes, I have a basic red line that is that I think it suits a small country like Denmark that we live in a rule-based international world. But that shouldn't mean you can't challenge. And we've done that before. I mean, since, for example, we... jointly took responsibility for saying that people who come up with a temporary need for protection must have postponed the right to family reunification. It wasn't the case that you could just break up, I had almost said in a Bible or in such a physics report that it was proven that it was so. It said it was at a process risk, and we took it. And that's the way it must be. And it must also be said quite openly that with what is happening in the world at the moment you can see it in Germany and with the asylum ceiling there is something going on. So the conventions must be respected, but we should not just be right in the first place to write about understanding them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004212927	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004212930	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the speech, and also thank you for once again no, I really do not think so (Prime Minister (Løkke Rasmussen): so don't say it). Forget it. Just thanks for the speech. Prime Minister ( Lars Løkke Rasmussen): No, you get curious now. Yeah, it is as far as we get. After all, the Prime Minister is repeating something like a mantra for the Left and more in the government for the last time, and that is why we can really feel that we are in an election year, because the Left has become a little left-wing, and now we need to show how much we have invested in welfare. The Prime Minister reiterates that billions of investments have been made and that even better welfare has been achieved. I had an exchange of words with Mrs Britt Baker, the political rapporteur of the Left, here earlier, who ended up with Mrs Britt Baker asking me to go out in reality. And there I just want to say to all of you that if you're a little worried... sorry, you can't charge directly... if the honored thing is worried about anyone coming along, then from my inbox and social media and various, I can say that it was at least some who saw it. And I have some invitations to Mrs Britt Baker from some who may think that it is Mrs Britt Baker who is going out in reality. But I am sure that the same invitations can be extended to the Prime Minister. In the invitations there was also evidence of the Labour Inspectorate's remarks and of the conditions in the hospitals, articles about what the nurses say, articles about maternity paths, own experiences as a patient. There is a great deal from reality that one can say has come into the Chamber here. In fact, I think it may be a pity for Mrs Britt Baker that she is the one who gets the invitations, because it is also the Prime Minister who tours around with the slogan that a doctor has been hired a day, except on Sundays. But the Prime Minister completely forgets to tell us about the fired nurses, sosu's and medical secretaries. So in reality, only four additional people have been employed in total and all over the country at our hospitals. Then the Prime Minister could not just confirm that no more hands have come out in our hospitals, as is given the impression when the Prime Minister talks about this one doctor a day.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004213202	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004213204	I don't know. It's my age. I apologize a lot, so maybe I should say this, just so that we have some reflections. I was so curious about what Mrs Pernille Skipper intended to say, but as she pulled back. But curiosity is not shared in relation to it, no. I'm wondering if I should say what I want to say now... laughter I just thought it was my age. Well, then I'll bring it to you, 'cause it's probably my age. I've been here so long, and then I thought that now we're gonna hit each other in the head with reality, to get out in reality, and that we don't know anything about life and death and people. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I'm 54 years old. I have been chairman of the Social Committee and deputy mayor and mayor of the county; I have lived my whole life with the public sector. Without boasting, I think we could take a competition for who has visited the most maternity wards. I've been three times in personal capacity. And I'm not drawing a dream picture. I know that there are challenges, I know that there are challenges, but I also know that we are investing. We invested half a billion more in the healthcare system from the country in 2016 than the government we took over from had planned to do. It's just a truth you can beat by if Mrs. Helle Thorning-Schmidt had continued. Then we came, and then we peaked. We spent half a billion dollars extra on land. And then the same people have to sit and mock us that we don't do anything. There is there it is true that there are no more nurses out in our hospitals during this parliamentary term. What is this development that is happening in our health care? It is a development in which lay times are falling, where the degree of specialization in hospitals is getting higher, where patients return more quickly to municipal care. So yes, there is also a task shift from sosu assistants up in the hieraki up against the doctors in our hospital system, and if it becomes the case that you have to sit in here and run the details, how the extra billions we have given the regions • some more than there were in the maps, when we took over the • have to be distributed between medical secretaries and sosu assistants and doctors and medical doctors and radiologists, and how much you have to buy scanners for and what the medical budget should be, then you go completely wrong in the city, and then I certainly cannot understand that at the same time you subscribe to the view that we should have elected regions, for what to decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004213442	It was a question. Now it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004213446	I think they should decide about our hospital system. I don't even know where that bastard came from. It came from here). I'm pulling it back. Laughter Now I stick to reality. I'm just a little confused. I started by presenting some figures to Mrs Britt Baker. Then I'll be told to come out in real life. Then I try to tell the Prime Minister what it looks like in reality, and then I'm told I'm not going to bring it here at all, because it's about numbers. Okay, so let's go back to the numbers. It is the Prime Minister and various members of the Government and the Left who tour around with the fact that an extra doctor should be employed a day, except on Sundays. And then you end it. It is not said that there have been fewer nurses, fewer medical secretaries and fewer sosus. It is also not said that doctors themselves say that this shift of tasks means that they have too much paperwork and do not use their skills for the benefit of patients where they should use them. And it is not said at all that from 2015 to 2017, when the Prime Minister has been in charge, four additional employees have arrived at all the hospitals in the country, but that there have also been 50,000 additional patients. So it is not good enough to say that you know well that there are problems and that everything is not rosy, and then tour around and boast about how more employees have arrived. I don't care if we relate to the stories of the people who experience it themselves or the numbers. Neither proves that welfare has improved, as the Prime Minister starts by saying. Therefore, I just think it would suit the Prime Minister to admit that no more extra hands have come out in our health care. There isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004213643	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004213646	None of that proves that there has been a better welfare, says Mrs Pernille Skipper. Is it that the waiting time has become shorter since 2015, no more welfare? Is it that the cancer survival rates are rising and have been so since I became Minister of Health back in 2001, not welfare? I just don't understand. I mean, I've had the approach throughout my political life that we run hospitals to make patients healthy. It may be a mistake, but that's what I've been thinking. And where I measure welfare is looking at whether the patients are getting better than they were before. Yes, they do. Are patients getting more quickly into treatment? Yes, they do. Are we in a good position in relation to comparable countries' health services? Yes, we do. When I became Minister of Health, we had a poor health service that patients had lost confidence in. It's not long ago that there was an independent think tank... it's not something I've come up with that pointed to the Danish health service as being the third best in Europe. That's well-being. There are more doctors in the hospitals, and we spend more money. So far, at least, the hospital system operates in such a way that it is run by the regions, and so far, at least, it is they who decide how the many extra billion kroner we have invested in health care is distributed among sosu assistants, nurses, medical secretaries, radiographs, doctors, DJs, investments, medicine. It's their decision. I have to point out, moreover, that we have a problem with nurses, and that is why we have also done something about it in order to see whether we can increase attendance and so on. I think that if you look up in the nurses' cash register, there are currently 250 nurses who have had an unemployment period of more than 12 weeks. We can then say that we have to hire many more people, but at least they can't come from Canada. They can't do that, or at least not from America. They may come from Romania and Bulgaria, but not from Canada. But at least they can't come from Denmark, because they don't exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004213902	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004213910	Thank you for that and also thank you from me to the Prime Minister for the speech. I am actually glad that in his speech the Prime Minister explained this with the temporary... is there attention? The Prime Minister Completely! ) That's good. I am pleased that the Prime Minister explained this with the temporary nature, because when I read the proposal for adoption by the government, I thought: what does this really mean by temporary stay being really temporary? Because you talk about, and the Prime Minister and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has also spoken of common sense, but what is common sense? I can be really concerned about the negotiations that are to take place with the Danish People's Party, because I am not quite sure that at least my understanding of common sense is the same understanding of common sense as one has in the Danish People's Party, where one is at least in relation to what I think is really most interested in, that new dancers are not going to work, should not be integrated, because they have to go home as quickly as possible. Then you can ask yourself who's good for it. So I would really like to ask the Prime Minister: where is the limit? When can you stay in this country? In fact, the Prime Minister said in his speech that one must of course earn one's own money in order to be allowed to stay. If we imagine that, and we all know that an armed conflict lasts on average approx. 15-20 years have been in Denmark for 10 years, 15 years, you have children who go to school and maybe are taking an education, and you have a job, but then you get unemployed for a period, would that be enough to say: Well, you don't earn your own money, that's too bad, out with you? So, what exactly is the criterion of common sense in relation to this very important nuance of balance, which the Prime Minister himself mentioned, and which I think we all agree in this Chamber is really, really difficult and difficult to relate to? So where's the balance? What if you are suddenly unemployed for a period of time? Does it matter that you have a family, some children who are taking an education in Denmark, so this is an investment for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004214112	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004214116	I completely admit that the term common sense is probably not patented, and you might want to use a little more words on it, and you can have different approaches to it. It's a balance, and I can't stand by and develop it here, because it's also tough law. But I'm gonna try to do it a little black and white, and then the nuances go. Then I would say that in my optics there are like two ways to get to Denmark if you are a foreigner. One is, after all, a refugee because you have a need for protection. Then you have to be here, then you have to have shelter, and then I think, in principle, that you also have to go back when the need that made you come here is gone. It's one way. The other way is like labor or marriage into the country, that is to say, with people who are here permanently and are citizens but otherwise as labour. It's like the two ways in. And you can crossroads, because if you come here like this... refugee and is here for a number of years and builds up some skills, you take an education you become a chemical engineer, and now you just take something so it may well be that what you have escaped from has now changed, and then I think you should go home as a chemical engineer in principle. But then we have a labour market policy that allows you to go into the country and look for employment at Novozymes or somewhere else. And if, by the way, in our labour market policy we have created a door that is large enough to be able to walk through that door, and we look at that a little differently, because there are some who think that there should be very short to the door, then in my optics you will be able to enter there. I actually think that the debate is served by the debate and we cannot finish it in the detail here that we are trying, as a lawyer I would say to distinguish, that we are trying like to have these two ways, because these are two different situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004214319	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004214323	I very much agree with the need for nuance, because I think it will be really, really important in the negotiations that are coming. And I hope that the government remembers that there are other parties in the Folketing than the Danish People's Party. For when is consideration also taken of whether the individual actually has a stronger connection with Denmark, not only because it is nice to be in Denmark, but also because one may be integrated into society, has family, friends, contributes to society, is investing in society, among other things. by having some children who are going through the education system and who at some point come out on the Danish labour market? We are talking about long-term investments. My father is a foreigner. My father came to Denmark and worked in the late 1960s because there was a shortage of labour. But if he had lived today, I was about to say, because he does, but if he didn't have a job today, then he wouldn't have been able to stay in Denmark. He was unemployed at times. If he had been sent out of the country by the rules that will certainly be negotiated, I probably wouldn't have been here today. I'm sure some would have liked that. But at least I wouldn't have been very happy about that myself. So it's just to use an example that we really have to remember to think in the long-term investments in terms of what we do to people and people's understanding of where you belong, where you like to be, where you feel that you are actively contributing to society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004214435	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004214440	Well, I'm glad we're all here today, and I don't know exactly what's hiding in that family story. But there was also a period up through the 1960s and 1970s when we opened the door to labour. So I think we need to be a little sharp on what we are talking about here. What we are talking about about temporary nature is people seeking asylum in Denmark because they are refugees; they are fleeing from something they comply with the provisions for protection status. That's what we're talking about. We are not talking about illegal migrants, because they do not get a residence basis. They need to be sent out again. It has its troubles, depending on where they come from. This is why some of this is also about putting a little harder on the countries where people come from if they have no legal basis for staying in Denmark. It's part of it. But we're talking about refugees. And there is my basic point of view that the basis of residence, which says that you are a refugee, falls away when what you have fled from is no longer present. Then the basis of residence has crumbled. If you're gonna stay here, it's gonna have to be because you can get up on something else, like, for example. We can always discuss whether to go home first and submit a new application, or whether to do so here, if it is to be made simple that you have some skills that we need in the Danish labour market. That's the nuance I'm trying to put into it. But, frankly, this is a big and complicated debate, and we certainly cannot conclude it here from Parliament's platform. I am just really happy, and I think it is an innovation that the Danish People's Party has so clearly stated tonight that what I think many people have read as such should not work, they should not be integrated, rests on the concern that if they do, we cannot meet the ambition that it is temporary. I mean, it's not an ideological resistance to people earning their own money. I think it is new that it is so clear and I think it is positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004214649	I certainly sense that everyone has taken it with double speaking time, whether they have it or not. But at least now it's sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004214704	Thank you. I sense from the Prime Minister that there was a little ritual tribal dance about the debate that things were repeating themselves a little. I may well recognize that, because I really think that there is now such a pattern in which the Prime Minister, in warming up to the opening of the Danish Parliament, could be at a DI summit or at the opening of the Danish Parliament itself, says what the government would like to do, and what the Prime Minister would like to do, but then it will take a very short time before the Prime Minister and the Government realize that it is not possible to do so. And on Tuesday Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was very clear in his message to the Prime Minister when he said: We had put up for a fall, where we quietly negotiated the Finance Act and got the Danes to show that we can rule this country. There we have to think: why is he doing this in a situation where we should sit down and find some good solutions? Then I sense the PM's getting a little nervous, don't you think? Today we also hear that it may well be that the Danish People's Party thinks they are the government's best friend, but yet they say that the Prime Minister must resign after the elections, so that a new government can be formed. And then I have to promise that you'll correct the PM's side and go to the steel. Groucho Marx would have been proud, right? He said: "Those are my principles, and if you don't like them... Well, I have others. The logic here must be, as I understand the Prime Minister, that there are few refugees, actually fewer than for many years, that they are better integrated than for many years, and that it is all the government's merit, but we lack labour, so what can we offer the Danish People's Party? Let's send some people who are at work home. But if it is the result of this autumn's not more foreign labour, but just to send home some people who are in work, is there not just a problem that is somewhat unresolved and which was the major central problem, also in connection with the DI summit, also in connection with the opening speech here, namely that the big challenge is that we have a recovery, where we risk standing again without sufficient labour? That is why the question is really just: should the Prime Minister not now hold fast to pursue the policy he wants to pursue, otherwise you have to ask the voters instead of just pursuing the policy that can come about when you lean on the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004214940	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004214944	I just think there are some middle bills that are being skipped here. After all, we have given up on getting through with our policy. I mean, I've always known that as a minority government we won't get through with our policy one to one, but if we meet some adversity, then we'll think forward! We have, for example. I have noted that the whole of the public debate has been about the one with the limit on the amount. I admit it looks a little difficult, but now we have to get into the negotiating room. I find it very, very difficult to understand that Bulgarians, Romanians, and whatever else you can think of, can only come to mind that there are no limits, that they are in free competition with bus drivers, garbagemen and service workers, but if there are Canadians, for example. A Canadian nurse, then it's uh... it's uh... it's uh... it's uh... it's uh... it's... it's uh... it's... it's uh... it's uh... it's... it's uh... it's uh... it's uh... it's uh... it's uh... it's uh... it's uh... it's uh.... it's uh.... it's uh..... it's uh..... it's uh.... Well, I think we should talk about that a little more, but it looks heavy. The Danish People's Party doesn't surprise me very much here. Well, I have to say that with the historical profile of the party and everything, it doesn't surprise me. Social democracy surprises me. You have had an employment minister who was himself at the end of the table when we last dealt with foreign labour. They went out and beat their chests at the fact that we had liberalised it, made it more flexible. It is to put it in purely Danish populism, purely elected tactics. That's the way it is. But fortunately there are also some other elements, and then we will have to see what we can achieve there. We have, for example. We have tabled a proposal that we should have a much more flexible positive list, which is as good as that, that is to say, it is not about how much money we make, but about what kind of job we have. Today we have a positive list which is a reflection of some that we lacked a few quarters ago in some labour market statistics. We have proposed that we should have a more dynamic positive list in which regional labour market councils can play a role, where some of the cashiers that the Minister of Employment has now tried to free up can play a part. And when I talk to the responsible part of the Danish trade union movement, I hear that one has just got to say that I have to say a more nuanced approach to this debate than one has in the Royal Danish Social Democratic Party. That's why I actually believe in "But it must turn out that there's something to pick it up. It's just to say that I don't have that picture that because we face a little resistance, we just have to lie down. That is also why we can rejoice at the fact that now my time has gone by 20 billion. kr. in tax cuts, that the PRS tax is gone and very many things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004215222	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004215226	Whether the Prime Minister's time has passed or whether it is just a little borrowed will come to light when we get to the elections at some point, but do not take up the grief, if I may say so! ) Forward, exactly! And I am delighted that it was still possible to get the Prime Minister back on track about what is the central challenge. I also find it interesting to discuss priorities. I think the Prime Minister has just reached the point of 20 billion speaking time. kr. There has been room for manoeuvre, and there have been opportunities to do various things. It just leaves me with another, I think, pressing question, and that is: why should we not invest in education? So why should education be reduced year after year? Higher education was not mentioned with a word in the Prime Minister's opening speech. I just have to say that, for me, moving forward is all about giving more opportunities to our children, not putting a ceiling on their educational opportunities. For me, it's about giving the next generation better opportunities than you've ever had. But for the Prime Minister and for the government, higher education is right now about fishing money out of a well and spending it on something else, and then it is about restricting universities' ability to attract foreign students. It is not to go forward, but back, I would say to the Prime Minister, and that should be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004215346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004215350	Well, that's something I was about to say nonsense, but maybe it's too much anyway. But that's not entirely true. But now I'm taking it with the foreign students. So, look, we've been inside and, what's very sensible, map out what kind of study places we're doing that attract foreign students who are they, and what happens to them? And then we can see that in relation to some particular courses of study, among others. in the academy educations, it is the absolute rule that people come in, read and go back home. There I just have to say that at a time when the money isn't endless either, it's not a wise way to spend all of our money inviting people to join us now I say it in Danish from Eastern Europe up to Denmark at Danish SU, give them an education, drive them out to the airport and say: Thank you for visiting us. But it has nothing to do with an aversion to foreign students. That's why we're part of it. In this effort on foreign labour, what can we do to get the foreigners who come to Denmark to study to stay here a little longer, so invest what they have learned in Denmark on the Danish labour market? So like to dispute it and say that now we are against foreign students, is simply, excuse me, too primitive. I admit, sir. Morten Østergaard would like to invest all sorts of things in everything, but Mr. Morten Østergaard doesn't have the money. Sir. Morten Østergaard is standing there and kissing me that I find it difficult to get through some labour market supply reforms and other things that we have tried to do, but then I just have to say that all that back catalogue, like Mr. Morten Østergaard is driving around with, after all, dead as a dead babe in the Red Sea that you're going to swim around in. For the money there isn't. They weren't there either when I became prime minister. I looked down the box; the previous government had decorated the figures, drove all the way to the border of the EU budget rules, and, yes, that is why we had to make a re-priority contribution. In 2017, we managed to raise public spending to where I was last prime minister in 2010, and now we have so much control that we can report that for 2022 we no longer need the re-priority contribution in the form we have it now. The money has to be there before you can use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004215600	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004215608	The money must be there, I agree. And thank you to the Prime Minister for his speech on Tuesday and today. Of course, there are some things we disagree with, but also some things we agree with. The Prime Minister has come widely around many topics, but there is one issue that we in the SF seem to have been very absent, and it is the world's biggest money laundering scandal, which we unfortunately experience in these times, the Danske Bank case. The Danske Bank case is not only a question of a bank, but now we have to see how it ends for some reason it has not been able to control what was going on in the bank, but it is something that also affects us all as Danes. We have an EU Justice Commissioner who says that this is a risk for all Member States and that, at worst, money laundering cases like this can lead to new economic crises or financial crises. We have also heard the Vice-President of the Commission say that this is really, really serious. There are crisis meetings in the EU, where the Minister for Business and Industry is also taking part; in parentheses, I think the Minister for Business and Industry has done a very good job. We have Finnish, British, Estonian authorities which, apart from the Danish authorities, are on the matter. The European banking authority, which is looking over our shoulders, is now considering some rather drastic, new steps in relation to how our banks should be regulated. We have US authorities considering imposing huge fines on the bank, and what could actually be most dramatic, namely a ban on trading in dollars. If that happens, I'm gonna round it up, President-in-Office, a bank like that can't handle it. I therefore hope that the Prime Minister can see that this matter has become a matter of national interest and that some of what we also need to hear from the Prime Minister is what is going on in the Prime Minister's Office. What kind of thoughts do you think about this? Because it has done damage to the whole of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004215818	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004215821	Thank you. Thank you for it, by the way, I think it is excellent, as is the representation of the facts of the matter and of how serious it is. I totally share that analysis. And yes, I also wondered if I should address it in my opening speech, and I thought about it: it gives so much to itself what to say about it, that I do not need to use an opening speech to set the agenda for our parliamentary year. After all, it is clear that what we have seen is scandalous, and it is equally evident that this matter must be settled by the respective authorities that are now working with it, namely financial supervision and the Bagmand police. And it is equally obvious that this must also lead to us considering: are our mechanisms strong enough? I guess after my memory we've doubled the resources for the FSA in relation to what the situation was like when we hit the financial crisis, back when I was finance minister myself, and I guess we've also expanded the staff with something similar to 70%. But we are going to look at: should more be done? For me, I would say that this will be a very heavy lot in the weight bowl that will soon be weighing out; we have already set it up and are making an analysis: Should Denmark join the banking union? I think it's more obvious that we should probably do it than it did before we had this scandal. By the way, I agree with the parenthesis that the Minister for Business and Industry handled this very well and skilfully. After all, the government is built up in such a way that we have a resort and that the resort is there and the minister draws the government. He has done such an exemplary job, and I feel covered in by all the steps he has taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220024	I agree with much of what the Prime Minister is saying, but I hear a little that the Prime Minister is saying that this is not something the country's leader should be dealing with because it belongs to a resort area. I'd say that's true if it was a minor case. However, we have an international rating agency, Standard & Poor's and then you can think what you want, that private companies can determine our credit rating which has been out to say that perhaps Denmark will be reduced from the best credit rating. If that happens, it will cost all Danes, all Danish companies money, and it will damage the entire Danish financial sector. In the end, it can do long-term damage to the Danish economy. Can the Prime Minister understand why I think it's a question of how I don't know what the Prime Minister is laughing at No, no, I'm smiling) • our country and our economy and not just a bank that's in trouble?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220124	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220126	Yes, I completely understand that, and when I smile, it's just because I'm thinking: does Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen not think I know, or what? That's more like it. I didn't say I shouldn't be dealing with it. I didn't mention it in my opening speech. I just want to say that I am dealing with a lot of things that I have not spoken about in my opening speech. I'm following this closely. I've been following this closely. Because I fully agree with the analysis that has been given to completely agree. I fully agree that it is important that we take steps that also show the outside world that we have it under control. For yes, it is a systemic bank and it is very large, and it is clear that if something happens to it, it also has an impact on the real economy. But you might also take it as far as I look at it so seriously that I also do not want to stand and hold much, very big talk about it and draw all possible attention to this. Because we have handled it and dealt with it with the tracks that have been laid out, both in the context of the FSA, in the context of the FSA, in the context of what I indicated before, to look at whether the FSA has the competences and the resources needed and what some considerations need to be made about the European Banking Union. So it's not at all because I don't see the seriousness of the matter. But then there is just the consumer information that I am dealing with other than what comes out of my mouth. I know I talk a lot, but I'm dealing with a lot more than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220252	The next question is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220256	Thank you very much for your comments. First of all, I would like to say that I can hear that the Prime Minister is not quite well and, by the way, a good trip to the Faroe Islands tomorrow. After all, the Prime Minister is Minister of the Kingdom Community, and I would really like to draw the attention of the Prime Minister to a matter which I find deeply worrying. We have a good dialogue with the Minister for Employment, but we would like to see much more Greenlanders in work than is the case today, and we are trying to push for this in relation to the pitch pool negotiations. After all, we are not invited here ourselves, so we are round talking to the various social rapporteurs, who are negotiators for the individual parties. And we have got some new figures that show that it is about a third of all Greenlanders between 25 and 50 years who are working in Denmark, while in general it is more than 75%. by Danes who are at work. I find it extremely worrying that there is such a big difference, and I was actually quite shocked by the figures I have received here not so long ago. The good news is that almost everyone, 90% of the Greenlanders who have a long education, are at work. It is actually more than academic Danes in general. But I find it deeply worrying that there is so much difference between how many people work. I would like to know if the Prime Minister has any comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220422	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220423	Thank you for that and thank you for your participation in my health situation. I'm glad you can hear that I'm not well and that you can't, like, see it or otherwise just sense it or what else you could make of diagnoses. So thank you for that. I fully agree that there is a challenge here. I have to say, I knew the number was low, but I didn't know it was a third. Well, it's not part of my general knowledge. I knew it was low, but it's shockingly low. This is actually in line with what we are addressing in relation to what we were talking about earlier in today's debate, that is to say, new refugees and family members who, after three years, had a participation in employment of something similar to 20%, three years ago, that is to say, in 2015, which has now been raised to about double and thus is roughly equal to the figures mentioned here. So you have to take this very seriously. I can only say that there are historical reasons why Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's party is not in the pitch pool because it is like Danish rates, but I am sure that both the Minister for Employment and the colleagues here will listen with great interest if you have concrete ideas on how to work with this target group. Because it should be the case that Greenlanders in Denmark had the same employment rate as the Danes do. We have previously met and gathered together on and collaborated on other projects that work with Greenlanders on the edge of Danish society, so I can't just stand by and give a commitment to that. But I am quite sure that we will look at it with great interest, and I hope that this will be done widely.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220616	Thank you for your comments. It can be said that the municipalities play a very important role. About 50%. of the Greenlanders live in the five largest cities, including Esbjerg, and where there are Greenlandic houses, in the four largest cities, in Denmark. It might be interesting to make a targeted effort, among other things. There. But it could also be said that the KL agreement often focuses on refugees, and the Prime Minister himself mentions that the figures are comparable to the figures for refugees, and that is not a comparison that we are happy about. But when these numbers come out, it's just so deeply worrying that you have to look at where it is that we can put in. Is it at the stake pool negotiations? Is it perhaps also in relation to a KL agreement? In any case, I think that should be a consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220704	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220704-2	It is noted as some concrete suggestions on how to proceed with the matter which I would like to give such an overall commitment that we would like to do and which I would also like to get involved in.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220720	The next question is Mr. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220722	Thank you for that, and also from my side I wish the Prime Minister every success and a good journey to the Faroe Islands, where I understand that the Prime Minister must play the leading role in the local edition of the Silence of the Lambs. It's gonna be exciting to follow. A large part of the debate here today has been about: what is happening out there in reality? With both names and examples, you have tried to give the impression that you have it completely under control. Therefore, a moment which I will certainly take with me when the political rapporteur from the Left, Mrs Britt Baker, answered a question from Mrs Pernille Skipper, because in a debate about what kind of health care we have today, where there is a great deal that is good, there was also a question about where something is bad and there was a criticism. There Mrs Britt Baker replied to the picture that Mrs Pernille Skipper was trying to draw, with patients on the corridors, and with staff who cannot keep up: frankly, I think that Mrs Pernille Skipper should move a little more out in reality. A little more. Because that is simply not the Denmark I know. It's not the health care I'm in. I believe that this is the health service in which a great many people work. And I also believe that this is the health care that many Danes experience. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is quite simple: does the Prime Minister agree with his political rapporteur that there are no people on the corridors of hospitals in Denmark and that there are staff who can no longer keep up?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220910	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004220911	Now I think that Mr. Nicolai Wammen does it a little again: that a view is a view, and is it right, and is it true? I guess things are a little more nuanced, don't they? When Mr. Nicolai Wammen was last minister, it was 9,000 public employees' posts that were cut if you were to use the Social Democratic terminology, you would say that they were fired. I don't know if they got fired. But there was a 9,000 fewer civil servants, if compared at that time, sir. Nicolai Wammen was a minister at the time when he quit. It's a bit in contrast to the more public employees we've hired on our watch. But even with 9,000 fewer public employees, it wasn't like it was all just a disaster. I don't think so. I have very well said about Denmark between 2011 and 2015. I don't just think, but I know that when you talk to the staff and with the patients and go out and look at reality, it's full of nuances. And yes, there are also problems, among others. with pre-treated elderly medical patients who are not fit in hospitals. And we have to do something about that. One of the reasons why the government has announced that we will have a health reform within a few weeks or later in the autumn is precisely the fact that we need to create much closer and more binding cooperation between what is happening in hospitals, in general practice and at home in the municipalities. There are places where it runs if not in oil so at least in a proper flow, where the hospital's expectations of the municipality and the municipality's expectations of the hospital are balanced. And there are places where it doesn't work. It's not just about how many hands there are, of course. It's probably so much about where these hands are, which side of this triangle between general practice, the municipality and the hospital they are. Well, I'm not drawing a dream picture. I know that we have a much better health service than we have had, I know that measured by what this is about, namely patients. I know that there are plenty of challenges. I also know, if we are to be honest with each other, that they will not only be solved by one or a competition as to whether it is 50 more, 100 more or 200 more nurses that are needed, because it must also be solved in the reality we are in right now and here, where I know there are 250 unemployed nurses who have been unemployed for more than 12 weeks. It has to be solved in that reality. It may be too objective an answer, but then I apologise, but I haven't even gone into an election campaign yet, but only some others are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004221144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004221146	I have no doubt that the Prime Minister was preoccupied with his answer, but that was not a factual answer to the question I asked. The question was incredibly simple, namely whether the Prime Minister agrees with his political rapporteur that, in reality, there are no people on the corridors of our hospitals and that there are no places where staff cannot keep up. That is what it is about, not that there are things that work well in healthcare, because fortunately there are, but whether it really is the position of the leader of the Left, which is reflected in the political rapporteur from the Left. It is not just a question of politicians who have to stand and tear each other upside down. That's a question, sir. Prime Minister, whether the country's top political leader is aware of what is going on, and I have to say that when you see a lot of fine announcements about how well things are going, and then you hear the political rapporteur say that there is no one on the halls and that nobody is running too fast, you have to say that you are very, very far from the reality that many Danes are experiencing. Since the Prime Minister is so happy to throw himself around with figures, will the Prime Minister not tonight answer a single question about a specific figure: How many Danes are on the corridors of the Danish hospitals right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181004221319	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004221321	It's 10:13. Is it in the emergency hospitals, or is it also in the elicious clinics, or how is it to be done up? Yes, the Prime Minister cares about numbers, but so, listen to me: Now we've had a huge show going all day today, where the twitter team over there with reference to the Ministry of Finance's answer on four sides of September 28 bikes and says that we have to fire 1,000 nurses. That's a matter of fact, isn't it? When you read the same answer, you can see with the same degree of lack of objectivity that if you conduct the economic policy of the Social Democratic Party, there will be 0 more nurses 0 more nurses! Similarly, a process of public consumption growth corresponding to the demographic trait gives rise to an almost unchanged number of nurses. That's what's called 0. So that's what leads to saying, "Vote for me, and I'll give you 1,000." Honestly, it is, and now I say it as I feel it, so lame and so low and unspeakable that I hope the Danes can see it through. I know that there are problems in health care, and I knew that when I became Minister for Health. That's kind of why we changed the health system. Social democracy was against, but I understand that what we invented at the time is so brilliant that it should not be tampered with. That's where we really hit it. It took a few years before you could see it. Now we say that we will probably have to adjust some things again, because there are problems with proximity, there are problems with coherence, there are problems with the fact that we are also going to spend too much resources because patients are going to be throwing balls. I know there are problems, but I can't believe I'm drawing a picture that I don't know what kind of health care we have. Anyday, I'm gonna run a competition for who knows the most about it anyday.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004221528	We will have no further questions in this round, which is why I would like to thank the Prime Minister, who will be able to rest his voice a little. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004221544	People are finding their place. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 2 by Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Britt Baker (V), Christina Egelund (LA) and Mette Abildgaard (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 2 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 1 by Mette Frederiksen (S), Pernille Skipper (EL), Uffe Elbæk (ALT), Morten Østergaard (RV) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004221654	We're gonna have a little quiet in the hall. We are far from finished, there are several items on the agenda. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We still need to calm down in the hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004221732	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181004221831	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 9 October 2018, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
