ParlaMint-DK_20180524100004	The meeting is open. We're gonna have to calm down over the hall! Today there are the following notifications: the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has made: report and recommendation to amend the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. 147). The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. The Minister for Business (Brian Mikkelsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Danish Parliament a written tourism policy statement 2018. 16). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100101	The items listed today in items 2, 5, 8 and 13 on the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100117	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are five proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 57 by Marcus Knuth (V), Laura Lindahl (LA) and Nase Khader (KF), and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 32 (V, LA and KF), against 75 (S, DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 57 has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 55 by Martin Henriksen (DF), and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 84 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 55 is rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 56 by Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen (S), and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 30 (S), against 51 (V, EL, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 26 (DF and SF). Proposal for adoption No V 56 has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 58 by Nikolaj Villumsen (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Andreas Steenberg (RV), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of 19 votes (EL, ALT and RV), against 84 abstentions (S, DF, V, LA and KF), 4 abstentions (SF). Proposal for adoption No V 58 has been rejected. That concludes the question... There is one more vote, I am sorry! Finally, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 59 Holger K. Nielsen (SF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of 4 (SF), against 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 59 is rejected. And then there are no more proposals, and that concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100447	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100512	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100540	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100559	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. That concludes voting time. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100626	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100645	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100716	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100734	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. That concludes voting time. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100805	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100826	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), against 13 (EL and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100904	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100924	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524100955	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101032	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 adopted by the Minister for Health. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101044	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101053	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101124	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101142	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101213	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101230	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101300	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101315	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101346	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101404	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 84 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 22 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101431	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101449	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 70 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 36 (DF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101520	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101539	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101612	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101634	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 15 (Mette Gjerskov (S), EL and ALT) voted against 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 8 (RV and SF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101706	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101735	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101759	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (S, EL, RV and SF) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour, 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstained 0. The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and joined by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3, elected by a majority (DF, V, LA and KF)? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 4 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg) as adopted? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Please leave the Chamber in good order. We move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524101930	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102008	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102039	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102059	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We're gonna need a little more quiet in the room. It is good to have talks and coordination, but please let this happen outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102125	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102143	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102200	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102216	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102235	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102259	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102320	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102332	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102351	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102505	The first vote will be on L 199. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-11, member of the Committee? They are adopted. The vote will then be taken on L 200. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-24, member of the Committee? They are adopted. The vote will also be taken on L 201. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Finally, we are voting on L 202. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 12 outside the report by the Minister of Education as adopted. It's agreed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 4-11, elected by the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102620	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524102638	Thank you. What's the good child life? What's the good youth life? What defines good life with well - being, confidence in the world, security, courage and curiosity? What framework does it take? That is really what this debate is about, and it is important that we debate and worry about how children and young people are doing. That is why I would like to thank the SF for the motion for a resolution, B 111, which focuses on the well-being of children and young people. I would like to make it clear that the government cannot support the concrete proposal. The proposal provides for the setting up of a Commission for the Welfare of Children and Young People to make proposals for improving the well-being of children and young people in day-to-day provision, in primary and upper secondary education. I don't think there's any reason to wait for a commission. Let's just get started. Actually, we're already on it. The good children's life was one of the four parameters that I highlighted when I joined as Minister in the work of the Quality Forum for Folkeskole. There is a great deal of reason to focus on this issue. High demands on children's readiness for change, both at home and at school, put children's life under pressure. One of the most important prerequisites for a good child life is clear frameworks and structures, both at home and at school. That is the way it has always been today, but I think that it has to some extent been forgotten. You don't prepare children for a changing world by building changing frames around them, by constantly disturbing, changing, new adults, new projects, in, out, new, new, new, new, the new variety so that it blackens before the eyes of many children. Children must be surrounded by present adults, who also dare, will and can take on the role of authority and set a firm framework around children and young people's lives. When we talk about good children's life, it is important to remember the importance of the family, and everything it involves in love, security and presence, even when it is not present. All children need love and stability. We must not forget this in the search for the rights of adults and all they want. A child's life is the whole child's life, and we cannot only reduce that to something that is going on in school. A child's life is family, association life, friendships, play, summer holidays and everything else. Therefore, we can never create well-being among children and young people by looking only at how they feel between 8 and 15. Having said that, however, all day-to-day services, primary and secondary education are obliged to ensure a good standard of living. But what brings good well - being there is disagreement about. I believe, for example, that the contradiction between professionalism and well-being is completely false. For example: is the idea that grades should be bad for the thriving, all the way in the fence. The school must be a safe place where bullying is not allowed and where violence, threats and harassment do not have access, neither to pupils nor to teachers. There must be quiet and room to think, also like calm for social media that can constantly disturb the brain. There are many concrete initiatives and initiatives going on around schools and youth education. Some are prompted by us politicians, others by the staff of the individual school. Instead of setting up a welfare commission, the government believes that we should work with good children's life now and here. We don't want violence at school, we want adult authority and talent, we want good frameworks around the kids. And it's local that you work with it. We know that professionalism and well-being are not opposites but go hand in hand. And good education with high professionalism very close to the students I believe in more than a welfare commission far away from the students' everyday life. The primary school can and must do much, but well-being is also about children and young people being able to engage in activities outside the school. That's why I've started an attempt at 50 schools that can shorten school days. This gives better time to engage in, for example. sport and leisure activities. It's about the good child life. The good children's life comes into being in a good balance between school and all the children's life that is not school. We need to focus on good children's life, but we should not do duplication, and that is the main argument that the government cannot support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524103154	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524103158	Thank you. On Monday, I think, or on Tuesday, the Minister's colleague, the Minister for Health, was out to set up a young panel, that is, young people, to make a proposal on how to improve the well-being of young people. After all, it is in recognition that more young people are miserable. That is exactly what the Minister said. Of course, what is good about this is that some young people are involved, but what is lacking in the measures taken by the Minister for Health is looking at structures. You should not only look at what young people can do to improve their well-being. We must also look at what we, as a society, are offering young people and what it is that affects their well-being. Is there anything in today's structures in the field of day-to-day provision, in the field of school, in youth education, which the Minister believes can be a factor in the growing dissatisfaction among children and young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524103256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524103258	As I said, I believe that the issue of well-being and good children's life is complex. I believe that structure is one of the concepts that has a huge significance. And I believe that the fact that we have created insecure structures around children and young people helps to create more insecurity, anxiety and distrust. This applies both at home and at school. An example may be a trial of one hundred percent project teaching, which you do in the best sense, because you want to challenge children, turn them into future innovators, but what it does is that it can create an extremely challenging mental environment for children and young people who need to know about what is going to happen. What's my everyday life like? What can I count on? It is a perfectly common prerequisite for the way children build up their world that they can also have an expectation of what their world looks like. So if you create floating structures around children and young people... this is just an example... I just think you create a bad framework for security and well-being.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524103408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524103410	I think that is an exciting example, and it is something that happens in several schools, i.e. this one hundred percent project education. Now the Minister himself mentioned the long days of school. I assume that when the Minister mentions it, it is because the Minister also believes that it may have been a cause of dissatisfaction. But we don't really know. In fact, we do not really know what leads to the distrust of young people and children, and that is what I want to find out. And if the Minister is right that these two things lead to distrust, then I think we should take it seriously and change it. So can the Minister not see the reason why you are actually doing a job trying to uncover what structures have done, that there are more young people who are miserable in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524103452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524103453	I certainly think we should work much more on this and recognise that, among other things. structures, including at home, have an impact on how children and young people feel, and we must recognise that children need frameworks and repetitions. It's almost been a bad word. The other day there was a scientist who defended his PhD. It was about repetitions and the need for repetitions. It's almost been completely swept off the table all over this constant demand for change readiness. I think it is so good that there are researchers coming up and problematizing it that we will constantly disturb children when what they need is also very much continuity. Of course there must also be change and trips into the blue and all these things, but if we remove frames and structures from the children, then it is, I believe, poison for their well-being.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524103544	There are no more brief comments. I thank the Minister. We move on to the number of party rapporteurs. The first one on the platform is Mrs Annette Lind as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524103555	Many thanks to the SF for putting children and young people's well-being on the agenda of the meeting here today. This is probably one of the most important agendas for us educational rapporteurs, so the SF should be very praised for putting it on. A good school day is not only professional challenges, it is also about well-being. Too many young people feel stressed, fear or depression, and an unhealthy performance culture has been created among the students, including down to the youngest classes. But as Mr. Jacob Mark said just now, you don't always know the reasons why the young people feel stressed, have anxiety or depression. In fact, there are many reasons for this. Part of it may be that you are on social media almost 24 hours a day. Part of the explanation may also be the test culture we have created, which has led to a great focus on performing. Another thing that I think is very overlooked is domestic unrest. In fact, within the last month, one sixth of all children have experienced domestic violence. About a tenth experience that one or more parents are drunk. So far too many children and young people are disillusioned, and in the last 10 years, the number of diagnosed mental illnesses among children and young people has tripled. This is one of the biggest challenges we face as a society, and it is a development that we have to reverse. Something must be done politically, but other things are also about culture and the way we deal with each other and about reconciling expectations with each other. That is why we very much welcome the SF's proposal to prevent distrust and reduce the pressure. Like SF, we think it is important to have a broad overall view of children and pupils throughout the institutional and school areas. The SF proposes to set up an independent commission consisting of teachers, pupils, educators and researchers who can give concrete suggestions for a rethink on how to minimise the number of mental illnesses, but also how to increase prosperity and how to strengthen the voices of children and young people in the public debate. These are themes on which we in the Social Democratic Party consider it important and necessary to focus, which is why we are also looking forward to the work of the committee, where we would very much like to see us reach agreement on improvements and solutions for the benefit of all children and young people, especially those who are miserable and who have the most difficulty.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524103822	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. I see he's hurling to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524103844	Yeah, it just happened fast. First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist People's Party for tabling this resolution. We recognise the intention and we also understand the concern SF has for young people and the many children who are experiencing some kind of stress. And that is absolutely correct. That's what you meet on a daily basis, so there's something about the talk. The question is whether the tool is the right one, and it seems to me somewhat that the Commission's tool is like taking a sledgehammer to strike a pin. It is simply too violent a tool. A commission is usually used for really big things, for example. The Tibet Commission or the Iraq Commission, that is, when professionals have to investigate whether something illegal has been committed. So a commission is absolutely not the right way to deal with it, and that is why the Danish People's Party cannot, as a starting point, support the proposal as it stands. In addition, it is perhaps also appropriate to say that a Commission will probably not be able to remedy those problems. After all, the problems need to be addressed locally, they need to be addressed in the homes, they need to be addressed in schools. That is where young people are being met, and the government has already explained, by virtue of the Minister of Education, what has been done. In addition, of course, I have looked at the arguments in the proposal itself. Among other things: SF believes, and now I read that the score and the test culture in schools and the educations have gone off the rails. ▪ We do not mean that in the Danish People's Party. On the contrary, it is good that we have grades, but the grades begin first in the eighth grade, so you can't talk about a grade race. Testing is a good thing. After all, testing helps teachers and parents and students to tell where you stand so that you are not in a vacuum. SF also writes that there is too much focus on results and competition. We do not think that is right either. Competition is a good thing, and it is a little strange that many left-wing parties and politicians talk about competition as a bad thing, while they are often the most competitive people I know in this Chamber. Because they compete every day with the rest of us to get voters for their parties. Then you also write that it leaves the young generation with less time for contemplation, reflection and leisure time, giving the young people less time to find out who they are and what they want. And it is also written that children and young people are under massive social pressure to constantly be online. And that is true, but where does the pressure come from? Does it come from society? Is it coming from them? Is it coming from home? After all, it is very much up to the parents to raise the children not to be on the Internet all the time, although I know how difficult it can be, because I have a teenage daughter myself. SF also writes that society can help ease the great pressure today on children and young people. Well, society is the big mastodon that socialists always resort to when they need a scapegoat. We're society, parents are society, we're responsible. And in the comments one writes, among other things, that the thriving must be increased. But we already have the well-being studies, and they are used, among other things. in schools as a tool to find out how the children feel, so that you can take action against it and talk to the parents. The SF even proposes a children's Ombudsman. We do not think this is the right instrument either. We have an Ombudsman and the Ombudsman already has a children's office which will be able to deal with some of the things proposed by the SF. So, while we acknowledge that and now I am really trying to be the intention of the Giraffe SF, we absolutely do not believe that the proposal, as it stands, is the right way to approach it. Thanks for the discussion, after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524104330	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524104332	Thank you for your speech and for reading the whole proposal and commenting on it. I therefore agree that a Commission will not remedy the problem, but it will uncover the problem. It will find out what structures it is that make more young people today miserable, and then we can find out what the hell we really have to do to make these young people feel better, both in here, but also locally and regionally. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that he recognizes that young people are miserable, that something has happened to young people, that something is not going well for them out there, at least for a greater part of them, but then the rapporteur spends most of his speech saying that it is certainly not SF's tools that are needed to make them feel better. What are some tools that the Danish People's Party believes need to do to make them feel better?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524104425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524104427	That's a fair question. I'd really like to recommend Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark to take it up on the Education Committee. Then we can set up a hearing. We can also call experts for a closed hearing. We already have those options. I would very much like to be a part of that. I think that's actually the best way. Then we can get started quickly. There are plenty of experts who know something about this. After that, when they have told us what the problems are and what can be done, we can then assess whether further action needs to be taken. I'd have done that if I were Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524104501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524104503	I think that is actually an excellent idea, and I think I will go ahead with that when we meet in August or September or when such a hearing makes sense. I would now like to hear from the rapporteur: is there anything in today's structures that the Danish People's Party like to see as a factor in the growing distrust of young people? Now the Minister actually said this about the fact that it could be if it is unclear what the framework is or the long school days. Is there anything that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party can point out should actually be changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524104533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524104534	In fact, I was very much in agreement with the Minister when she spoke of an insecure environment, a lack of discipline and a lack of a framework. It is simply so crucial for children that there is predictability, that there are rituals, that there is a framework, that there is discipline and that they know what to do. If there is no safety, stress often arises. What we can actually do to help children and schools is always to ensure that there is a framework and predictability. I fully agree, and I am actually pleased that a liberal minister has such a relatively conservative approach to education. I just think I would support that from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524104614	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next is Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524104622	Thank you, President. Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark and SF to raise this really important debate in the Assembly Hall. I would actually like to start by saying that I personally, but also the Left, share the concerns of the authors of the motion for a resolution, a concern about how, unfortunately, children and young people are miserable in many places. There is undoubtedly some problem that causes many young people to get hurt in their lives. I believe that this may be due to a number of different factors, as the authors of the motion for a resolution also describe it. At the same time, there is also a great deal of uncertainty as to what it is, which is why, unfortunately, we see a curve that is rising in relation to young people who fall off the edge and who do not thrive. And it is by its very nature not easy to give an answer to it. There are some things in the proposal itself that I must disappoint the proposers that we do not think are the right way to go. Among other things: I feel that, in this context, a commission might be a little too slow. I actually think that we need to get out of the starting blocks more quickly. That's why I can, among other things. also say that the Left Minister for Health has already set in motion a young panel. It is the case that the Minister for Health actually involves the young people themselves in these panel tasks, and the first meetings will already be held here in June and then again after the summer holidays. Perhaps I do not entirely agree with that when the proposal says that it is the long school days that cause displeasure. I am of the opinion that it is the content that makes it possible to have a good school day. It is the quality of school day that makes you thrive. So I don't think it's possible to put it next to each other, so if you go to school one hour longer, you're miserable. And I know precisely that there is room for more movement, for a more varied school day, and I know that in the end also means that a lot of young people can subsequently get in touch with others. social contacts, a network which means that they may not end up on the edge. All in all, I would like to say that I sense that this subject is being taken seriously in many places. I can say that as late as Tuesday I attended a meeting organized by the Bikuben Foundation, which put a great deal of emphasis on the displeasure of young people. There are many places where you work on these things, and I promise you that. Jacob Mark that we also do in the Left. We take this seriously, but unfortunately we are going to reject the resolution here. And I have promised to welcome the Conservatives and to say that they also reject the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524105006	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524105010	Thank you. I saw, before we got a new Minister of Education, that Mrs Anni Matthiesen and Mr. Søren Pind was out with such a common realization that we are doing something wrong that makes the young people miserable. I think it was important that the Left should also join forces, because the most important thing is almost just that we have a common understanding, and then we have to find out what the way is to solve that problem. Because we can't have the young people feel that way. In relation to the debate on the long school days, I would like to say that I think this is a debate we should wait on. But what is exciting about it is that we do not actually quite know whether it is the Minister or Mrs Anni Matthiesen who is right. That's why I want a commission like that. Because, as the rapporteur says, much of this is uncertain. What makes the young people miserable lies in uncertainty. And that is why I would like some experts to look at whether there are any structures that make young people not feeling so well. I would like to ask you a question because I was really happy when I saw the health minister's initiative. If there are now some young people in the panel which proposes changes to promote their well-being in the field of education, will Mrs Anni Matthiesen lift it from health to education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524105120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524105121	Well, I promise, sir. Jacob Mark said of course I will. I can also tell you that I myself have already started some meetings. 'Cause I need to get smarter on this one, too. So, of course, we also work together across the various ministerial areas, including the Left. And, of course, I'm also being informed of what's going on with the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524105149	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524105150	Thank you. For there were some of the young people who had joined the panel and who were very happy about the initiative, I must say, and who thought it was very good, but who were a little concerned that it was so limited to health and that it was practically the young people themselves, I think the wording was supposed to be more robust. But it may also happen that it is perhaps some structures or something that we have adopted in here that cause them to distrust. Then it is important that you can take it with you in other areas and then perhaps change it. So I hope there's that opening.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524105217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524105219	In fact, I agree with the rapporteur. I do not think that we should simply throw ourselves at health and try to heal there. I think that you also have to look a little wider, which is why I myself am very concerned about this work and are closely following what is also going on in the health minister's area. I certainly believe that we have an obligation to try to ensure that we do not get to where we need the health system. And there may be a need to spread it out more and, for that matter, also to look at some of the other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524105258	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left. We move on to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524105306	Fortunately, there are many children and young people who thrive on life. I hope we can say that the vast majority do so, but unfortunately too many people also experience a daily life where they do not thrive. It can be an everyday life characterised by insecurity, it can be stress, it can be anxiety, it can be depression, and unfortunately we can see from the well-being measurements that too many children experience being lonely in their everyday lives. The reasons for this have already been mentioned by several rapporteurs, I think, many; there is a diversity of reasons. Some may, of course, have experienced growing up from early childhood in a family characterised by exposure in one form or another, but I do not believe that there is any doubt that the poor wellbeing of many children and young people also stems from the everyday life they experience in primary school, in high school, in our educational system. The long school days have been mentioned and the problems it can cause in relation to children's leisure time and the building of social communities in leisure time. But in addition, over a number of years we have seen a development in the education system, where the culture of performance is increasing and where it can be said that the concept of classmates for some is experienced as a prey to the concept of class competitors, where pupils become reluctant to help each other, and where there may be a concern to raise their finger and ask. I remember that the Danish High School Students' Association conducted a study here a few years ago, which they did not claim to be statistically significant, but nevertheless said that one in three high school students who replied were afraid to raise their hands because they were afraid to answer incorrectly and get lower grades. So there has, I think, developed a culture in which one can say that fear of making mistakes fills more than the desire to experiment and try something new. For me, there is no doubt that more and more tests, tests and character requirements, which put barriers to young people's opportunities for further education, are helping to create pressure and distrust for many children and young people in our education system. Fortunately, there are many who do something about it. There are a lot of teachers, there are a lot of educators, there are large parts of our healthcare professionals who are skilled researchers, the Center for Youth Research in Aalborg, and many others who have devoted a great deal of attention to this issue. So there is already a great deal of knowledge in this area, and there are a lot of people who, in their daily lives, act actively to uncover, prevent and deal with the problems. Nevertheless, I think it is a good idea to bring together the knowledge that is now in place in a Commission work that focuses on the well-being of children, not only in the individual area, but I think that what is sensible in the Commission's idea is that we also explore the area across day-to-day services, leisure institutions and educational institutions, and that is why I and the Enhedslisten think it is a good proposal that the SF has put forward. I therefore agree with the comments that have been made that so much is happening and that we should not wait for a Commission. I just do not find there is any contradiction between getting a Commission job where one can immerse oneself and working across, and then supporting other initiatives such as those already taking place, and I think that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's proposal to perhaps very quickly hold an expert hearing, like an open hearing, so that we get the message out, under the auspices of the Parliamentary Education Committee, could be a very good idea. However, this is still not contrary to the idea of a Commission, in which we are able to clarify the issues in a broader context and in this way hopefully also have a basis to make us wiser, and give us a sense of how we can put better into a concerted effort to ensure greater well-being for children and young people. So, all in all, thank you for a good suggestion from the SF. We can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524105754	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524105803	Thank you for the floor. If I were to turn myself into advocatus diabolical, that is to say the devil's lawyer, one could imagine that the setting up of a welfare commission might show that it is perhaps the cause of the greatest welfare problems among children and young people are not tests, but perhaps a negligent child education, access to social media in the hours and the general dissolution of the structure of schools' everyday life, for example. compares with my own school hours many years ago. It is, of course, a process which would correspond to the process of the Wages Commission, where there was a hope that it would demonstrate low pay in the public sector and unequal pay between men and women, but it ended up achieving the opposite. But joke aside. Setting up a commission is a big and heavy manoeuvre that takes a long time, and I do not think that we have that time when well-being is already a very important priority for the government and many activities have been set in motion, which the Socialist People's Party also supports, and that is why we in the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal. But now that I have the floor anyway, let me make a few comments on the ideas that I sense are at least the reason for the proposal. You have the saying that the exam is the party of the diligent students, and that is why I think it is quite wrong to talk down the virtues on which the exams are based. Let me illustrate this with an example. The exam is a celebration of the meritocracy. My grandfather was an unskilled worker, and my grandmother was a housewife, but thanks to great diligence and good understanding, my mother became a cand. mag. and had a long and happy working life as a high school teacher, and this could only be done because the school was then a meritocratic one. Without a meritocratic system, the structure of the class society would have been reproduced, but instead the pattern was broken, so in 1953 the workman's daughter got the highest Baccalaureate at Aarhus Cathedral School and thus could open the doors to the university. This meritocratic principle is a good principle, which I pay tribute to, because it is by far the best way to break the social heritage that one can with diligence and skill beat the lazy offspring of the burglars. So the exam is, as already mentioned, a celebration of being industrious, a celebration of trying. That is something we must speak up, and we must promote it, rather than portraying it as dangerous and wrong. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524110121	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524110123	Thank you. And thank you for some exciting remarks. I'm not against tests, and I'm not against exams. I believe that competition is good if competition is healthy and you compete with yourself. I always think that we should work to improve, and I think it is good that the students and the children know that they can do better. What I'm squirming about is whether the way we test and try and the extent to which we use grades is healthy for our kids out there. I think we have gone too far, and I see that, among other things, when I compare with some of the other countries, for example. Finland, which we have been visiting together. Is a national test the hardworking party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524110206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524110207	I am absolutely convinced that national tests are also the party of the diligent. But let me just make the point that a test, in terms of time, takes up quite little in relation to the whole day-to-day normal school life. I therefore agree with the Minister when she says that we also have to look at whether the loose structure, the lack of calm, order and regularity that exists in today's school is a problem in terms of well-being. Because when people complain about how stressful it is to sit on, for example. I have to say that an ordinary school class seems ten times as stressful as a large-scale office, which is already referred to as a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524110302	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524110303	When I ask about the test, it is precisely because there is a little difference between tests and exams. You know, at tests, you find out where you stand and how you can improve. In exams, you find out what you have learned in the time spent on a particular course. What has been the problem with the tests is that teachers have had difficulty in finding out what they need them for, that is, it seems more like a steering tool from inside Christiansborg. And the students haven't quite understood the purpose either. In other words, does the rapporteur recognise the researchers who have shown that, in particular, small children, the second-class children, the fourth-class children, suffer from these national tests?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524110338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524110339	I can't believe that scientists have come up with this result, based on my own experience as a parent and hence with my own children and their comrades, because especially smaller children love to compete, not least boys. You know, if you want boys to do something fast, all you have to do is ask who's gonna finish first. Well, they'll start right away. So this result goes so far against my intuition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524110409	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524110415	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the SF for presenting this very good motion for a resolution. When I was getting ready this morning, I was standing with my 11-year-old son, he was going to brush his teeth, and I said to him, "Have you remembered to floss 'cause that's what you need every day?" And then I thought that we should have this debate today about the well-being of children, and that I do not recall that when I was a child I had to floss every day. And for me, it was just an example of how so many things have been shot into our children's lives, where they have to meet some requirements and criteria to do things perfectly. They need perfect teeth, that's clear, we want that as a community, we want that as parents, and it's nice for them to have perfect teeth, and therefore the dentist also says that now you need to floss every day, and it's done in a good sense. And it is not because I object to children flossing, it is just an example of more and more things entering the lives of our children and young people, which they must constantly remember and take a stand on. Something else, which has also been shot into their lives, is ElevenIntra, SchoolIntra, ParentsIntra, and there is also an e-mail box, and when Theodor, as my son's name, yesterday, together with his two friends, had not managed to do the job they had to do, because they could not find the paper they had written the results on • I now hand him over right here on TV • then I got an e-mail home that he had not reached and that he had to do so etc. etc. It was done in a good sense, no doubt, but it is monitoring, and it is a completely different kind of schooling than when I went to school. There was no one there. We had a contact book, but they didn't write home every day with some message that now Pernille can't find her paper with what she's measured up in the schoolyard, so now you're gonna have to make sure you get her to measure those things up again. So something new has just happened in our society. To the previous rapporteur, I went to private school in Aarhus. It was a very professionally strict private school which really, very much cared that one became professionally strong for the classical subjects, and we got grades from first class, but I do not recall that we had tests in any subject. So I can't understand where it's come in that testing should be this amazing. I think that teachers must use tests to the extent that they think it is educational and didactical to go in and test a level if they are in doubt about the students' level, but that is the way we use tests that I do not understand. We know as well as people, and children know that when you have a test, something is right and something is wrong. There's a standard that this is made from, and that means that the kids are constantly craving what's right here, what's standard. What's the standard? We must live up to the standard, which means that they understand the world, based on the fact that there are standards of what is right and wrong, but people are diverse, talents are diverse and the world needs many talents, but there is no room for that in a test. And it's really a shame that we have some kids who think there's a standard for what's right and a standard for what's wrong, because there's not. I'm right, sir. Henrik Dahl is right, the older minister is right, and we each have our own qualities and standards, both for what we live by, but also for what we are skilled at. If the three of us were to be faced with a test, we would respond to it in a very different way, because we can do very different things, but we have all been given the opportunity to stand in the Chamber today, and I have received it, despite the fact that, for example, I have received it. I admit that here because she had been there sometimes, when I hadn't been there, and then she had some crazy notes, and it helped me prepare a little when I was going in for the oral exam. I succeeded in getting a PhD, as did the previous rapporteur, because we can all do something differently. How can we get to where we explain to our young people there are some up here that it's about that these are the differences we have that we have to cultivate, because we simply can so many good things and can so many good things together? But we have put so many legholds into our education systems and culture, so instead of having a good life with meaning, we are chasing the right answer to how we should live and the right answer to what education we should have and what we should become, and we must already think about it in the sixth grade. So yes, I am also concerned about the culture of perfection, I am also concerned about the culture of performance, and I look forward to and hope that we can have this commission that can simply go in and look at what we are doing that makes young people stressed and makes them not have a good life. As I said, I wholeheartedly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524111010	There is one comment from Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524111014	In my view, one of the most important things that has led the reform work with the Danish primary school since the 1990s is the fight against functional illiteracy. We had the Danish shock in the 1990s, and later we had the PISA tests, and the reforms that have been made have been reforms that have been made to prevent us from having almost a fifth of a vintage that was functional illiterate, because this is a very, very serious problem for those who suffer. Does Mrs Pernille Schnoor recognise that there is a connection which is the way I outline it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524111057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524111059	I recognise that there is nothing good about having a primary school that can produce children who are functional illiterates, but I do not recognise the method being used right now. I would much rather spend money instead of putting more tests into the 0th class, spending the money on teaching, where there is also a teacher, or a teaching where there are fewer in the classes, or a teaching where there are two teachers, so that we can focus on the fact that we have different strengths, and of course you need a foundation to be able to read and write and calculate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524111136	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524111139	However, although we are different as people, the same rules apply in the field of mathematics. We are subject to the same rules in the field of mathematical evidence. There are the same logical rules, so there is not so much to discuss, either mathematical tasks are properly solved, or they are not really solved. Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524111158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524111200	I fully acknowledge that, and we should not all be mathematical students, we should not all study mathematics at the university. For example, I have. I didn't have to. We need to be able to do mathematics so we can live in this society so we can understand the letters we get from the bank and so on, and of course we have to learn that in primary school, but we shouldn't think that everyone should be at the top. We need to be able to mathematics, and then people like me, who never had any need to go further with mathematics, should be allowed to understand that there are some other things, and tell me that there are actually some other things I am really good at.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524111239	With that we thank Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524111247	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. Before I begin my rounding-off, I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they support the proposal. However, this continues to mean that there are no 90 mandates behind a welfare commission, but I still find that all rapporteurs themselves Mr. Henrik Dahl, with whom I have had many good debates about well-being, tests and grades etc. So I will pursue that in committee. And I definitely think we should do it, as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen proposed a hearing on how to improve the well-being of young people. And then I am really glad that Mrs Anni Matthiesen opened up the door to take the work that is going on with the Minister for Health • if there are any good suggestions from some young people over there on how we can improve the well-being of young people who have something to do with the education area to join the Ministry of Education. So I'm glad. Why is this needed? Over the last 10 years, the number of children and adolescents diagnosed with anxiety or depression has tripled. 37 per cent. of the young people who have anxiety and who are between 16 and 25 years of age, it does not tell anyone. They go alone with that miserable feeling that everything is falling over their heads, for they think that no one else should be interested in it. So although the number of diagnoses has tripled, there are certainly also a number of young people who wear it themselves and who never get the help they need. If you're looking at the upper secondary schools and now I've just taken out some figures, more than half of the second g students from two high schools in a research project from Aarhus University were just as stressed as the 20%. Mostly stressed on the labour market. And if you look at higher education, which isn't really part of this proposal, then one in ten students take performance-enhancing drugs, for example adhd medicine. I'm not saying that all children are miserable, because the vast majority are, as Mr. Jakob Silverhøj said, fortunately very well, and for some it comes here for periods of time. But I still have a thought that this is a problem that we need to address and which has only got worse over the last few years. I do not think that the debate is about young people being more robust, it has become such a popular political buzzword. Because when we just say it, we make it up to the kids. Then we say almost: It is your fault; you are not sturdy enough; that is why you do not thrive. There are also some structures that we have laid down over the children and young people who are in Denmark today, which make them unable to be robust. These are the structures I would like to see examined. Just to give a quick example of approx. One and a half minutes, you can look at a child's life and a young life and see what structures we are giving them today. If you look at nurseries, you can see that more children are being sent more quickly than ever before in kindergarten because there is money to save the municipalities by sending them from nursery to kindergarten earlier because there are fewer teachers in kindergarten. If you look at the kindergartens, there are several kindergartens who feel pressured to send the children to school even if the children are not ready. And that is because the law has been changed so that it is no longer the right of parents to say: we want to have our child's school start postponed. No, it is the right of the municipality and it is cheaper to send a child to school than it is to have him in kindergarten because there are more pupils to a teacher than there are children to a teacher. When they go to kindergarten, if they come from a exposed area, they risk going up to a stop test soon. And if you do not have to take a stop test, you certainly have to take national tests that come in second grade, and you also have to take ten national tests in all through your primary school hours. If the schools are very concerned about the national tests, they can test twice for the tests, and i.e. 30 tests in total during a primary school period. And these are tests, which many scientists have called completely useless, and which teachers do not know how to use. If they get up in school, where they have also been through PISA surveys, and where they have been able to see their school on a ranking list that parents can see on the web and thus compare, they must then be assessed ready for training. They can actually risk being assessed as non-educational, even though I am of the opinion that one is actually prepared for some form of education, regardless of who one is and whatever one can. But you can get that stamp on you. If you are unlucky enough to go to the wrong school, you may be exposed to the school premium pool created by the government, which actually means that the weakest pupils have to be lifted above a certain grade, otherwise there will not be a specific financial contribution to the school. This means that there are some of the most vulnerable students and know that if they don't perform for this particular exam, the school won't get the extra money next year. When you go into youth education, you are struggling with the more exams, the more tests that have to trigger the grades you need to get out and deal with the high entry rates, which, moreover, in some places are blowing up the scale. We have a 7-step scale. You can do the maximum. Few 12, but on several courses the average is above 12. When you get through the youth education, where there is no guidance at the end of youth education, you should start within two years, otherwise you will not get the character bonus that we have still not been abolished in here and you will be punished at your SU after a certain number of years if you do not start within the two years. When you come to higher education, you have to speed up because otherwise the institution will be penalised financially, and so will you if you are not fast enough. You almost have to be sick to get an extension.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524111820	If you should have made the huge mistake of learning better about your education then you should have found out that you would actually rather do something different with your life than the bachelor you've taken, then you should wait 6 years to take another education, because now we have also created an educational ceiling. When you get out on the other hand, you may be lucky to have entered a labour market where there are increasing efficiency requirements in most jobs, and if you should be so unlucky not to get to work or get sick or break your neck, as we can see that more and more people do, then you come into a system where you test the unemployed more and more on their ability to work. The wildest examples are that people who are unemployed in a taxi have been driven out to a place to work half to a full hour and then to be driven back in a taxi, because their ability to work just needs to be tested. On top of all of this, which are the structures that we have decided from in here, we also need to look good. You have to remember to train; you have to look like people in the ads that are retouched; you have to be as handsome as those on Instagram; you have to be on Facebook, Snapchat • all the social media • all the time, because what if the comrades who write there write about something that you missed yourself? Yeah, I think it's time for the kids to get a little quieter and help them get it. That is why I would like us to continue with the debate on giving young people more calm and ensuring that they have greater well-being. I will continue to do that. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524111946	Thank you very much, sir. Jacob Mark. There is a brief comment, Mr President. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524111951	First of all, I would like to thank you for the good speech and constructive tone in which it was made. It gives a good well-being here in the Folketing, and I think that also gives a very good well-being in the schools. But then there is one problem on which I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion, and that is over-diagnosation. The Children's and Youth's Psychiatric Society, which organizes doctors in this field, has warned against it several times, so we should be careful not to overdiagnostic, because it takes to say it a little popular places from those who are seriously ill. And it is also supported by other psychiatrists. Does the rapporteur agree with me that overdiagnosis is a problem that we should take seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112044	Yeah, I actually agree with that. When I sat as chairman of the Children's Committee in a municipality, in a town council, I actually found that there were many parents who came almost asking for their child to have a diagnosis because it triggered a lot of extra help. Sometimes the parents were right, but at other times the parents were not right, and of course they put pressure on the municipality. In fact, the parents should have had to know that if their child had problems, the problems should be solved where they are and without a diagnosis being made on the child. It is not very good that we have come to where people are actively coming and asking for a diagnosis to get help for their children. They need that help, no matter what.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112129	Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112131	Thank you for a very good rapporteur speech. Sometimes, of course, I also think back to what it was like when you were young yourself, and I think there are many of us who can say that we were not as watched as young people are today. I would also like to have the SF's rapporteur perhaps give an answer to something, and I hope he has an answer to it, because these are major questions we are dealing with in this Chamber today. I am thinking a little about the parental responsibility task, including in this debate. I am thinking of the fact that a great many young people do not actually talk to their parents, the fact that you rarely meet, and when you meet, both parents and, for that matter, the young people themselves sit with iPhones, and that means that you are not in direct contact with each other, but sit on each side of the table with different iPhones. Does the rapporteur have any thoughts, any ideas on how we can also influence the culture, that is, the cultural change that has been created over the last ten years?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112252	I think that the culture we have created is a lot about everything being useful, that is to say that everything we do must be done because it must be possible to use it at some point in the future. I believe that we must help parents better understand that everything does not need to be of any use and that it will work out, even if their children are not at the top of some test or even if the child does not just deliver on a national test, or even if the child just needs an extra six months to be assessed as an educational preparation. I can actually get quite nervous about the generation that I myself represent that's been through many of these things and that's gonna come out now and be parents. Will they then put further pressure that they have experienced in school on their children? They do it in good sense, because they want their children to have every opportunity in life. But then parents can, in the best sense, intensify the structural pressure that is already there. I get to think of an advertisement with Uffe Holm, I watched on TV where he came to a parent conversation, and the first thing he asked was: How is my child doing in the national test? And when he was told that things were going well, he walked away. But there are many other things that are important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112355	That is the thing about creating the whole human being, and there is nothing about doing well in the national tests, if, frankly, you have no friends or network and you always feel lonely or, for that matter, fear. But just when you look back in history, there has been a tendency for us parents to expect that we may hope that our children will reach at least the same as ourselves, and that in some way also helps to push the young people. One sometimes takes oneself to get to ask about something that may almost be unnecessary to ask about. But again, is this something we just have to address, or does the rapporteur have any concrete things that the SF's rapporteur thinks we need to address?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112451	I think that's some of what this welfare commission could have come up with. I think that some of it could have been solved if you removed some of those many tests that I have mentioned at school. I think that the announcement made by Mrs Anni Matthiesen and the then Minister of Education is perhaps one of the most effective tools. Because when suddenly there is a Left Minister and a Left rapporteur who goes out completely unconventionally and says that this is not what is necessarily the most important thing, because it is also important that your child thrives, and it is also important that your child is well and has friends, then I think it can be just as effective and make more parents think that it will be all right no matter what.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112526	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112528	Thank you. I certainly share the view that there is a need for us to look at the well-being of young people, and I also share the rapporteur's point of departure, in view of the fact that exam pressure can contribute to the failure of some young people. Fortunately, in today's Denmark we have very good exam-free free schools, and hurrah for free school choice, because that means that parents can choose the school form that best suits the child you now have. But what I really want to ask the SF's rapporteur is that young people's mental well-being is something that extends to many areas of the rapporteur. There is the area of employment, there is the area of children and education, there is the social area, there is also health, and now it is not so awful many years since the SF had the office of Minister for Health. What initiatives did SF's Minister for Health take at the time, when the government itself had the lead in the post of Minister for Health to strengthen the well-being of children and young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112626	To the part about free schools, I would just like to say that some of the free schools that I think do the best of things are some of those who work, for example. with grade-free exams. That is also why we introduced grades free of character into the secondary school reform. It was something we lifted in from the SF that was really important to us. So that's where we've been inspired. In relation to what our health minister did, I must be guilty of replying. I do not know what exactly the Minister for Health has done, but I know that one of the targets that fills everything in the reform that we adopted when the SF was at the helm is well-being. That's something we actively went in and said. There's more than just professionalism. There is more than just delivering in national tests that fills something. There's something more than what you have to work with out there. There is also the need for the students to be well. It was not our health minister, but it was because we were part of the government and because we helped to do that work against the reform of primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112725	Then we would like to thank Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. No one else has asked for the floor, and then the negotiations have ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112746	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 29 May 2018. We need to explain the question, and this is the alternative to the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524112809	Thank you. Less than 50%. of the elderly report that they have good mental health, and about 10%. experience that they are lonely. 14% experience that they rarely or never meet friends and family, and approx. 20% has a mental illness. These are at least some of the figures we have in this area which show that it is important to focus on the elderly and mental well-being. Having said that, I am well aware that many older people are also experiencing their potential and that they are doing well to meet the challenges of everyday life and that they are making a positive contribution to society. But today I have called for this debate to focus on the unfortunately excessive share that does not thrive. Adam Oehlenschläger wrote his psalm in 1813 • Teach me, o forest, to wither happily, in which he already at the age of 34 thinks about old age and withering joy. In the alternative, as some may hopefully have noticed, we are quite fond of nature and the forest, just as Oehlenschläger was. And right here, in terms of well-being, we might also learn something from nature. I'd like to start with a little story from Sunday. I went for a little run in the woods on Sunday morning, and when I was on my way back, I met a large group of elderly people. I approached Hørsholm Church, which is located near where I live, and so there was a large group of older people. Some had walkers, others didn't. When I had run by there was probably a 20-25 people I found out that my former neighbor, Nanna, was actually in the middle of the crowd. So I ran back to Nanna. If Nanna sees this, I'd say I'm sorry I don't remember her exact age, but I guess she's about 85 now. Maybe she's a little bit more. But she was standing there in the crowd, and she told me that they are a group of older people who meet and go for a walk in nature. And she told me that very gladly, because she is very happy, and she has a lot of activities and has a lot of association with other elderly people. I tell the story because it is with the elderly and well-being, just as it is with the well-being of the rest of us, namely that it is actually quite banal. So, if you have the feeling that you have something to stand up for in the morning; if you have the feeling that there is purpose and meaningfulness in your life, and the feeling that you are part of a community, yes, then not only practice, but also studies show that older people avoid stress and distraction. And that's what Nanna and her friends in the woods were doing there on Sunday. They wanted to avoid stress and distrust by having a community where they meet every once in a while and go for a walk in the woods. In West Himmerland, for example, you have... The project "Activ in nature' to prevent the loneliness and mental dissatisfaction of the elderly. And as another example I would like to mention somewhere else in Denmark. It is in Allerød in Nordsjælland where they have made such a prevention project together with the library, which consists of nature and high-reading groups, which focus on presence and being in the moment. The groups meet once a week. First you go for a walk in the woods, where you are guided by a coach and a mindfulness instructor, and then you go back to the library, where a story is read aloud according to some principles called guided communal reading, which is something I am not just an expert in or know what is. But it sounds as if it is something that can at least help create meaningfulness and something to stand up for in the morning. It is not because nothing has been done, it is not why I call for it here today that much has been done, and we have also launched good investment pool projects. But I think it's something that it's incredibly important that we focus on. And it is also extremely important that we find out what we are doing about the well-being challenge we have in relation to our older fellow citizens. That is simply not good enough. It cannot be right that one should end one's days by not thriving and feeling lonely and not having a good life. So we are interested in finding out how the Minister and the other parties in the Folketing believe that older people can achieve significant improvements in their mental health and how we can ensure preventive methods so that fewer elderly people are miserable and fewer elderly people are medicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524113411	Thank you for a thorough and a little long explanation. After all, the rapporteur has the opportunity to come back to it again. I was able to give my rapporteur's speech). I may have had a feeling of that, but there is only one reason for it, then there is an answer and then the rapporteur comes up again. I'll probably think of something more to say). And then maybe a little shorter, and that's very nice. Then it is the Minister for the Elderly who gives the answer to the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524113435	Thank you very much for the floor and thank you very much for the alternative of calling this debate on the mental health of the elderly. I have been looking forward to today's debate. As Minister for the Elderly, I am very concerned about the mental health of the elderly. It is important to me that we live life fully and that the last years of the elderly become as good and full of courage and life as possible. Poor mental health can be expressed in several ways, and among the most central are loneliness, depression, and suicidal thoughts. If we look at the group of elderly people, there are clearly some challenges in terms of mental health that we need to address. The report estimates that 33,000 elderly people feel lonely, and other surveys show that up to 50 percent of the population live in rural areas. of the elderly who receive personal care in their own homes, often or occasionally feel unwanted alone. The personal and human costs of loneliness are great. Loneliness in the elderly reduces their quality of life and has a number of serious health consequences, for example: high blood pressure, poor sleep, stress and cardiovascular disease. In addition, there is a link between loneliness and increased mortality. If we look at how many suffer from depression, we can see that the incidence increases with age for both men and women. Unfortunately, older people over 85 years of age are the age group where there is the highest incidence of depression in both men and women. Finally, older people are over-represented in suicide statistics. It is much more likely that older people succeed in committing suicide when they try. The elderly over 70 years of age commit 23 per cent. of all suicides, and thus the proportion of the elderly in suicides is almost twice as high as the proportion they make up of the population. So there is every reason to take this issue seriously, and so does the government. The concrete work to continuously support good mental health in the elderly lies in the municipalities. It is a work in which we must, of course, support the municipalities, and that is something in which we in the government, among other things. together with the pool parties, priority has been given in recent years when the mental health of older people has been put on the agenda. This is among other things. the national dementia action plan, with the review of preventive home visits, with the introduction of dignity policies and with various other initiatives to combat loneliness. In the National Dementia Action Plan, we set three concrete targets for dementia. One of the objectives is to improve care and treatment efforts to reduce the consumption of antipsychotic medicines among people with dementia by 50%. towards 2025, because the professional recommendations in this area are clear: people with dementia should not be treated with antipsychotic medicinal products as a starting point. Nevertheless, figures from 2016 show that around 20 per cent. by citizens with dementia receiving antipsychotic medicines. That figure must have been brought down, and that is why, with the dementia action plan, we have decided to monitor the consumption of antipsychotics for people with dementia, to have an increased focus on doctors' printing, to ensure a better physical environment in nursing homes and to raise staff skills in the area of dementia. Another initiative is the policies of dignity. All municipal councils have been obliged since 2016 to formulate a dignity policy that describes the overall pointers and principles for a more dignified care of the elderly locally in the municipalities. In the policy of dignity, the municipalities must, among other things,: We are dealing with the areas of quality of life and self-determination. These are conditions which are very much linked to mental health. We must focus on what provides quality of life for the individual elderly and ensure that older people have the greatest possible impact on their own lives. In 2016, preventive home visits were made more targeted so that they are offered to special risk groups, such as elderly people who have lost a spouse or elderly people who have isolated themselves. It is also a way of helping older people who are at risk of poor mental health. We have also jointly set aside funds to strengthen our efforts to combat the loneliness of the elderly, who receive a lot of home help. The aim of this initiative is to test how home help can best detect loneliness among the elderly and help them to set up new networks. Another good venture pool initiative is the Community clipboard. With the Community clip card, employees in home care can e.g. accompanying older people who experience loneliness to activities. For example, it can be men's clubs, cycling without age, dining friends or senior networks. Finally, our latest pool agreement contains an initiative targeted at the elderly affected by grief and loss of life. For some elderly people, regret over things that were not done or would have liked to have done differently can be a serious psychological strain, because the time to do things is limited and it is an initiative that is very much at the heart of the alternative. The purpose of the venture pool project is to promote the well-being and happiness of elderly people affected by grief and loss of life. Another aim is to reduce the consumption of psychopharmaceuticals in elderly people receiving this type of medicine. The programme will be implemented during the summer and I look forward very much to following up the projects that are being started up. Finally, I would also like to mention that the Danish Health Authority has just published an updated prevention package with the latest knowledge on active municipal initiatives to promote, among other things. the mental health of older citizens. This prevention package can support the municipalities' work on mental health. Thus, the government focuses on ensuring better mental health among older people... this is also evident from our initiative... • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Here is precisely access to the community for all of the four points of reference for what we want to achieve with the government's initiatives in the area of the elderly, and that is also something that I will be working for forward-looking in my work as Minister for the Elderly. Because we all need to be part of a community and meet with other people, so it makes us feel that we are both seen and understood. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524114159	Thank you to the Minister for the Elderly. So it is the rapporteur of the questioners who is the first in the series of rapporteurs to speak, and I understand that this is going to be a slightly shorter affair because a lot has been said. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524114220	As the Minister and as I myself mentioned in the opening speech I made, the mental health of the elderly is, of course, dependent on an interaction between the individual resources of the elderly and the social context and the conditions of which they are part. This is also one of the conclusions made by the Ministry of Health and Health together with the Centre for Health Cooperation at Aarhus University, so I would like to highlight it here today because I think there are some very good conclusions and points in it that we can agree with in the Alternative. Some of the conclusions, for example, are: to adapt efforts to the characteristics of the individual elderly, to include social components in interventions and to strengthen mental health, to focus on holistic interventions, to focus more on preventive interventions for young healthy elderly people, to develop opportunities for personalisation and individual characteristics, to involve relatives and civil society in efforts, and to research more qualified in the mental health and well-being of older people. In the alternative, we would like to put forward and we would like to call on the Minister to make more use of these recommendations, and I would like to know if they will be used more than they are now, so that we have a reasonable balance between the freedom of the elderly and the opportunity to have a dignified old age and a society where it can be done. As I have said, we believe that we need a holistic approach and that we need to listen to each individual elderly person. And we are in a situation today, as I mentioned earlier, with which we cannot be served, and we therefore have an excessively large group of elderly people who do not thrive and who are struggling with poor mental health. Everyone has earned a dignified and good old age and the end of life and a chance to wither happiness, as I mentioned at the beginning with Oehlenschläger, who called it. So I look forward to today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524114505	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and from the Social Democrats it is Mrs Annette Lind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524114514	Thank you for the floor and thank you for putting this important issue on today's agenda, but unfortunately it is also a very overlooked issue. Just before, we discussed the well-being or ill-being of children and young people, and now it is the area of the elderly. In a sense, it is a shame that we have to discuss it in the Folketing and that things are not quite as they should be. In the social democracy, we believe, as in the alternative, that the mental health of the elderly is an area in which we should focus more. For according to the Danish Health Authority, every eight older people over 74 years of age has a very poor mental health. Among older people who receive personal care, more than half of them often or occasionally feel unwanted alone, and older men with poor mental health are over-represented in suicide statistics. These are figures that concern social democracy, and I imagine that we all agree here that there is a need for significant changes in this area. A great deal has happened since 2008. Six million home help hours have been cut off every year. So that's 20%. In the case of home help, which has been saved away, as in the case of 30,000 fewer elderly people today, they receive home help and then feel that there has been 23 per cent for a period of time. more older than 65 years of age. To make matters worse, since 2015, when Lars Løkke Rasmussen became prime minister, 2,300 have been reduced to care for the elderly. This simply means that there will be less time for the individual citizen. This means that sosu employees do not have time to talk to Mrs Hansen, talk about everyday life and about the challenges they face, talk about the feeling of loneliness, about isolation and distrust and perhaps the loss of a spouse or a close friend. There is simply no time to see how the elderly really are. We must ensure that all older people have the opportunity for a good life both physically and mentally, and we must create space for well-being and joy and create space for community and social presence. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are very pleased that we introduced the Community clip card for lone home help recipients. With a clip or two, lonely older people can get help with the part, perhaps for men's clubs, Cycling without age, community eating, senior networks or community activities organised by the municipality and voluntary associations. The clip card can also be used to allow employees in home care to take time to provide guidance on the schemes and social activities that exist for lonely elderly people, and perhaps to create the real contact by e.g.: to go with the first time or call and make the concrete agreements for the elderly. My hope is that the experience will be so good that the arrangements can be spread to the whole country in one way or another. Then I listened attentively to the suggestion made by the Minister for the Elderly about the fight against loneliness and poor mental health among the elderly. What I did not hear was whether the Minister for the Elderly wanted to continue the Community rock map so that it could be extended to all municipalities, and I would, of course, like an answer to that. For we must never leave the individual in the lurch and alone with his loneliness and misfortune. For the Social Democrats to see, this is an area where we are not doing enough today. That is why we need a government and a responsible minister who is taking the lead in raising efforts to prevent loneliness and promote mental health, including among the elderly, which we may not have heard so much so far, because we have not been focusing on them, perhaps because there is no need for it, but perhaps also because it is a generation of older people that we have today, which is shaped by a time when we have not had the habit of making a big deal of our problems or talking about them. If anything, they need a voice for themselves, and that is what we in the Social Democratic Party are doing. In conclusion, I shall read out a text of adoption on which the Social Democracy, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the SF and the Radical Left have agreed. Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament notes with concern that the older population differs negatively from the national measurements of loneliness and mental well-being among the Danes. At the same time, older men with poor mental health are particularly over-represented in suicide statistics. It is the view of the Danish Parliament that although the 2018 rate pool agreement has initiated important initiatives to support lonely elderly people and help them out of loneliness, among others. With the Community clip, there is a need to step up efforts to combat loneliness and mental malaria among the elderly. The Danish Parliament therefore invites the government to present concrete proposals to prevent loneliness and promote the mental well-being of the elderly and to convene all the parties of the Danish Parliament for a political discussion after the summer holidays 2018. V 60). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115039	Thank you. The rapporteur will just have to wait a moment. The read-out proposal for adoption will be included in the negotiations, but there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115047	Thanks for a nice speech. I am aware that the rapporteur is a standin, or whatever it is called, for the older rapporteur in the Social Democratic Party, so I just have a small cautious question here. I agree far along the way. We also now have a generation of elderly people who, as the rapporteur says, do not like to complain too much and draw too much attention to the issues in their lives. However, as the text of the adoption states, older men in particular do not thrive. The rapporteur spends a great deal of time saying that a great deal of money has been cut, and that is also problematic, but I would like the rapporteur to say a little about whether there could be other challenges that we should have addressed. There are, for example: with the longest possible in your own home where you sit alone at home and often do not really have any social contact. Are there any other challenges that the rapporteur just sees we need to address?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115153	Now it is the case that our rapporteur for the elderly is in negotiations and that I am the rapporteur for education and standin. But it is the case that our older rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag, is also very often internship in society. One of the things she's told me is that she's been out with an older lady, where she only came out every six weeks. So she did not get out of her apartment and out into the street more than once every six weeks. The old rock card has helped her collect these points. She hasn't had any relatives who could help her out. I think it is too bad, as we would have said in Jutland, that people should sit 6 weeks inside their apartment without being able to get out. That's one of the things we could get to grips with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115240	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115241	What I was fishing for this kind of thing was different. But I also think it is very good about the Community clip card and many of the things that we focused on in the last movement pool debate. Now I have an experience with an older woman. I talked to a sosu employee who rolled her out in her wheelchair under a small tree because there was sunshine. And then he had to tell her that she was not allowed to tell anyone, because she was not actually searched to allow time to be spent driving her under that little tree. This shows to me that there are also structures and perhaps something organisational that we can look at and that is not good. Besides the fact that we can do a lot of projects, it may also be necessary to look at whether it may be right that as a sosu employee you should not roll an older woman into the sunshine, so she can sit under a tree if it is good weather like today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115346	Now it is the case that we in the Social Democratic Party are actually quite concerned about trying to get our hands off these things in the public administration. We want to listen to what is actually going on in the public administration. That is why, with our reform of self-government, we would also like to help to get rid of the reins much more in relation to the staff who are out there with the elderly and in relation to the teachers. In fact, we have a belief that they have a responsibility and a freedom under responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115420	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115422	Thank you. I would also like to sign for the rapporteur's speech. I note that the rapporteur mentions that cuts have been made in the area of the elderly. If you look at the Finance Act, you see that the fact is that the elderly area has been raised by 2 billion. kr., since this government came into existence. It sends a very strong signal that this is a priority area. Would the rapporteur not like to explain where there has been an opportunity to cut the area of elderly people in the municipalities, according to the figures presented by the rapporteur a few moments ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115458	If you ask the elderly man who gets home help, he will answer that he gets much less home help than he has been given in the past. These are disgraceful numbers. It is the case that six million home help hours have been cut off annually. I do not think there is a single elderly person in this country who has received home help before, who does not think that this is a real cut in relation to personal freedom, as it is also living in a clean home and getting the personal help that you need.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115537	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115538	The rapporteur does not respond to what I am asking. Where did the rapporteur get those figures? I mentioned that since this government came into being, the elderly area has been raised by 2 billion. kr. I could also have chosen to say something about the dignity billionaire that we give priority to municipalities every year. About 89%. By the dignity billions, the municipalities have actually used for warm hands, for more staff out there in reality, where we have to look after and care and care for our elderly. So, if the rapporteur stands on the floor and speaks so sloppyly about the area being pruned, will the rapporteur not just briefly explain where it is the municipalities have chosen to cut? For the fact is that it is not from Christiansborg that funds have been cut. On the contrary, this government has raised the area of elderly people by 2 billion. kr., since it came to. So where has it been cut in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115633-2	I think it is in this area, as it is in so many other areas: first, you say you take a whole lot away, that is to say you do it via the re-priority contribution, and then you give a little bit back. And then you pride yourself on the fact that things have gotten better. The fact is that it has become much lower in the municipalities with the re-priority contribution. There have been 2,300 fewer employees to care for the elderly. There are 6 million home help hours fewer. It can be felt out there. Then it may be that you have put a small patch on the wound, but that doesn't make it any better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115710	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115711	I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that the Minister for Finance himself has made calculations showing that demographic developments require that 6 billion are actually allocated. kr. Until 2021, in order to be able to fulfil it, we have at least the same standards as we have today and that this is a contributing factor, along with the fact that we also have to take care of a great many other tasks arising from the close and coherent health care system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115743	It is absolutely true what Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen says. It is the case that demographic development is only getting worse so that the old people in the future can actually look forward to worse treatment if we do not add more funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115803	Then it is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance, who has a question for the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115805	Thank you. I just wanted to hear about something. As far as I know, the re-priority contribution no longer exists. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115817	I don't know if it's gone overnight. In any case, it is the case that it is still felt in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115826	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115827	Thank you. Could it perhaps be a political decision in the municipalities, more than it is something dictated from in here, where more and more money has been set aside? Unfortunately, we see examples of municipalities which choose to downgrade care for the elderly in favour of other things. From here, we give priority to the care of the elderly and think that the elderly should have a dignified care and care. However, can the rapporteur confirm that we see examples of municipalities which themselves choose politically to downgrade the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115902-2	Now I myself have been sitting in a municipal council and in an economic committee, I do not know if the rapporteur has. It is certainly the case that the soft values are given priority. It is almost always snow clearing and repairing roads that must be postponed because you want, for example. better care for the elderly. You give priority to everything you can, out in the municipalities. Then it doesn't help that you get a tiny patch from Christiansborg when they go with the other hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524115937	With that we thank Mrs Annette Lind. We are interrupting the meeting now for lunch break. We shall resume the sitting at 1 p.m. 13:00 today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524125959	The sitting is resumed. We shall continue with the examination of Question No 4 by Mr de la Malène on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and Mr de la Malène on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Mr F 27, and we have reached Mr F 27 in the rapporteur's line. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524130025	Thank you for that and thank you for raising an important debate. The +60-year-olds are the most satisfied with life. It was a story that Denmark's Statistics could tell less than 2 years ago, a happy story that we can look forward to more serenity in our old age if the statisticians hold. But, on the other hand, older people differ negatively in national measurements when it comes to mental health, and this shows a gap, a kind of lack of spectrum when it comes to the mental well-being of older people. Fortunately, the vast majority are well, but the group that is in a bad state, on the other hand, is feeling really bad. This is clearly seen in suicide statistics, where older men and especially older men are heavily over-represented. It is a very serious problem that so many elderly people feel so bad and that this divide shows that there is a lack of a spectrum in relation to the mental health of the elderly. Personally, I believe that it is due to a rather too widespread attitude among many that, when you get older, you have to expect some kind of decline in the quality of life, that you get a little satisfied with days. At least that's what I hear from our councilman in Aarhus Municipality who has focused on this area. No matter how old you get, you have the right to be well mentally, there is no one who, because of their age, has to be written off from getting help to get better, even when it is mentally, not only when it is the body that fails. We need to bring this kind of age discrimination to an end. We in the Danish People's Party would very much like to contribute to this. We have among other things. help establish a national grief centre to deal with the elderly who are affected by what is called complicated grief, that is, where you are not just sad because you may have lost a spouse, but where it gets deeper in you and you never get out of grief again. We have helped to create this cliff card against loneliness, where those who live at home and have little difficulty getting out the door can get this extra help to get a social network, and especially the pot to cope with the loss of life among the elderly is one of the things we are really happy to have voted on, a pool that is very much inspired by the work in Aarhus, which was led by the Danish People's Party's Councilman Jette Skive, because there should not be the difference in whether you are young or old when you need help with the psyche. But it doesn't stop here. We can do much more. One of the biggest challenges we see in relation to poor mental health among the elderly is the very high level of loneliness which unfortunately plagues many elderly people, and that is not necessarily because there are no people around the elderly. In the second context, we have seen how many home helpers can go to the homes of older people in one day, so it is not necessarily because they are so cut off from other people. But I think that all of us who at some point in our lives have tried to feel a little alone know that the feeling of loneliness is heightened when you are surrounded by other people who are not talking to you, for example. The high school student who sits in the class surrounded by people, but without talking to anyone. Then loneliness bites extra hard, and I think that we are right here at some of the core of older lonely people who receive home help. Time has gone away from that little extra, compared to the fact that as a home care worker you can look the elderly in the eye and ask how things really are going and that you have the time to do it during your day-to-day life. I do not think it is of bad will that the municipalities have had to cut to their feet in relation to this. This has been an imperative in order to get the box to vote when money has been scarce. That is why, in connection with last year's Finance Act, we in the Danish People's Party have also given priority to money for just more employees. Because there must be the time for you, as an employee, to be able to exercise all your professional skills, not only the health professional competences, but also the social competences of our social assistants. It is clear that it is in the social competences that we find the fight against loneliness. So more time in home care could be a step forward. Another factor is inspired by our trip to Japan with the Health and Elderly Committee, which talks about loneliness as a lifestyle factor equal to diet, smoking, alcohol and exercise. We in the Danish People's Party also think that loneliness should be in Denmark. We have noted that the government has put this in focus in their older political vision, and we should be happy to contribute to the fact that the vision becomes something other than words on paper, but also becomes reality. Finally, I shall read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament finds it worrying that approx. 13% of women over 75 years of age and 9 per cent of women over 75 years of age. of men over 75 years of age have poor mental health. It is especially older people with illness and disability or the elderly who lose a close one who are vulnerable to the development of poor mental health. The Danish Parliament notes that a number of concrete initiatives have been initiated to prevent poor mental health among the elderly. This applies, among other things, to: focus pool efforts against loneliness and to promote the well-being and happiness of elderly people affected by grief and loss of life, as well as the Danish Health Authority's prevention package on mental health from April 2018. The Danish Parliament will keep the government up on its older policy vision...Durability in the care of the elderly... a heart case... with the guide label...Access to the community of all people to ensure that the mental health of the elderly is at the heart of the policy of the elderly. The Danish Parliament also notes that the government recognises the problem and expects action with a focus on improvement. • V 61).
ParlaMint-DK_20180524130849	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would point out that the read-out proposal for adoption is part of the negotiations from now on. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524130900	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which I agree with in many ways. I was thinking that yes, there are savings in the municipalities and that there are also savings on the part of the Danish Parliament, and now we heard at least earlier, compared to how many older people there will be, that we then have an economic challenge. I am aware of that, but if we are to look beyond the economic challenge, I wonder whether perhaps there are also some structures that can be changed. I was sitting here looking at the Future House for all generations in Aarhus. Now Aarhus was mentioned by the rapporteur, and I remembered that in Aarhus you are making this house, which is a modern bid that all generations should be in the same house. We've made senior residences, and we've made old homes, and maybe it's a little misunderstood that we've been thinking that now all older people have to be together here, and now all young people have to be together here. Maybe we're about to be around generations. Does the rapporteur agree that there are also some structures that we can change that could make older people thrive better?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131007	I very much agree with that. I have also been happy to follow DR2's programme series on "180 days in nursing homes," where young people and older people meet, and I think there is a great deal of joy in when we are together as generations instead of staying separately. It contributes to a better life. So yes, there are some structural things that we can also look at in terms of how we organise ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131036	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131037	Because, in addition to that, there have been some things happening with our family structures, which mean that children and older people and young people are not nearly as close to each other as they used to be, and that is something we can help to look at. Speaking of the Japanese trip, we were out to see a town where you had mixed generations and where older people actually also had real jobs, i.e. 80-year-olds, who had 2 hours every morning in a day institution. So will the rapporteur help us to look at what structures are social, so that it will not only be investment pool projects or the economy we are talking about, but also a larger structure that we can try to see if we can change?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131124	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131125	After all, the Danish People's Party is a family party, and we want to do everything we can to support the good family life. Another example could be that we have a way of designing ourselves now, which means that older people will very much stay in rural areas, whereas young people will gather in large cities to train themselves. We would also like to help loosen this up, so that there is a possibility that you can be with your family in your immediate area and you are not forced to be divided across the country in this way, because there are some structures that make that the reality becomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131200	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Jeppe Jakobsen, and we move on to Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131209	First of all, I would like to thank the alternative for debating an extremely important issue here in the Assembly today, namely the mental health and well-being of the elderly and how we ensure that more elderly people thrive better. For we all know it, young and old: If mental well-being is delayed, we are often challenged by both the joy of life and the desire for life, just as our physical condition is often affected by poor mental well-being. And it is thought-provoking that approx. 9% of all men aged 75 and up and 13 per cent. of all women from 75 years of age and up have poor mental health. That must and must be done better. First of all, the municipalities have a great and important responsibility. Here you are closest to the citizen, you meet the individual, and you have good opportunities to experience, see and feel changes in mood and well-being. I have been in a municipal council for more than 10 years and have worked as vice-chairman of the local health committee, among other things. with well-being and have enjoyed a great deal of the Danish Health Authority's prevention packages. The mental health prevention package is a fine working tool seen through the municipal glasses, also because there are both general and age-specific recommendations. Don't you think most people like me sometimes wonder what it is that makes you not just grow old, but that some people get very old? A short time ago I was on a study trip to Japan with the Danish Parliament's Committee on Health and the Elderly, which was an eye-opener, because in Japan we are very aware of the importance of social relations, not only in relation to the joy of life and quality of life, but also in relation to how long we live. Japan, for example, has. 147 older citizens over 110 years of age, and common to all of them is that they have had strong social relations throughout their lives. In several places in Denmark we have well-established older clubs, and this is a very good way to meet, and it is a good way to create communities. I myself have been visiting older clubs, including: in Vissenbjerg and in Aarup on Funen. What characterises the clubs is the fact that, for example, they have to be given the right to vote in local elections. meet every week. You sing a song, drink coffee, eat nice soft bread, and then you either participate in a physical activity or listen to a talk together. All these elderly people certainly enjoy a strong local community, which so prevents loneliness. Although much can be done to avoid loneliness and distrust, as a society we also have a responsibility, of course, to care for people who, for one reason or another, are miserable and find life spoiling in the wrong direction. In recent years, we have also launched a number of initiatives, such as: is targeted to the mental health of the elderly, and let me give you a few examples: the Elder Minister has presented a vision paper, dignity in the care of the elderly. has created a focus on how to avoid the loneliness of the elderly and commit suicide. Both loneliness and suicide are taboo topics, which are very much needed for us to take life tags with us. With the 2018 Rate Pool Agreement, we have set aside both funds for the Community Rock Card and a pool for the elderly affected by grief and loss of life, and with the 2018 Finance Act, together with the Danish People's Party, we have set aside 120 million. kr. to the support of relatives and a dignified end to life. Finally, we have set in place targeted preventive home visits to elderly people aged 65-74 and 76-79, who are at particular risk of experiencing loneliness or sadness if they, for example, are: losing a spouse or returning after a long stay in hospital. A dignified care for the elderly has many faces and many expressions, but no matter what angle one looks at worthy care for the elderly, we must never forget to put man at the centre. The Left can support the proposal for adoption which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party read out, and then I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that the text can also be supported from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131629	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131634	Thanks for a nice speech. The rapporteur says that social communities are important. I also mentioned this in my speech and that civil organisations, voluntary organisations, are important. As I also asked a former rapporteur, there are also structures in our society which we have built up and which actually promote loneliness, for example. that we sit in each of our homes, as long as possible in our own homes and other things that make us, for example, that we are in our own homes. Don't mess with us across generations. Does the rapporteur agree that, in addition to looking at these individual initiatives, we should also look at some structures, just as we are talking about them in the youth field in terms of well-being, and that there are structures which simply work against the well-being of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131728	After all, we have taken a number of initiatives politically, and some of them we have taken together in the pool. As a society, we have a responsibility to help those people who experience loneliness or who do not thrive for one reason or another. But we also, and we must never forget this, have a personal responsibility to see the people who are right around us. And there I would like all of us, including myself, to get a little better at asking the neighbor: How are we doing? I'm going to Netto and trade, do you need me to buy something? How's it going after you get back from the hospital? Or how's it going after you lost your wife last year? And there I think we lack what to say, perhaps the mental attitude that makes us a little better at seeing each other, especially because, as Mrs Pernille Schnoor mentioned earlier, the structures have changed, so we do not have, what should we say, such a natural family community where we live close to each other all our lives, as one had in the past. And it challenges both the individual, but also us as a society in relation to seeing each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131843	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131844	We have a responsibility, and each one also has a responsibility at individual level, one might say. But what I would also like to hear from the rapporteur was about the social structural issues. I mean, for example. I spoke to an elderly lady once who said that she had just visited one of her friends, who was even older. And she had said that now she had been put out in a nursing home all the way out in a field, and she used to sit in her apartment and look out and watch the kids go to school in the morning, and it was like that which was fun, so to watch these kids who went to and from school. We have sometimes wanted to do so well and made great and fine occasions for the elderly, but something structural has happened which means that we have not had, for example. mixed the generations and that we keep groups to ourselves in solitude. So will the rapporteur help us to look more structurally at what we can do, and what can we do to help the municipalities to prevent distrust and loneliness?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524131949	We have taken a very important initiative together. Now we have just dealt with the bill on the nursing home portal today. And the nursing home portal is supposed to be a tool, so you can both as a single citizen, when choosing your last home, go to the portal and look at what kind of a set of values is in the nursing home, perhaps at the local nursing home, you must have your dog with you, celebrate Christmas, how is the approach to the relatives, but also so you can sit at home in the living room, either alone or with your relatives, and choose the nursing home that you think best suited to the person you are. And there I think there are very good opportunities for looking at nursing homes in other municipalities too over the shoulder if you want to move closer to where, for example. your children live.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132036	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. Then it is the Enhedslisten, and it is Mrs Jette Gottlieb who is the rapporteur today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132044	Thank you. Since our rapporteur, Mrs Stine Brix, cannot be present, I have promised to make the points of view of the Enhedslisten. For us, there is no doubt that there must be noticeable changes and improvements in the opportunities and conditions of the elderly when there are so many who have poor mental health and when over 50,000 elderly people feel lonely. That is simply too many. That is why we would like to thank the alternative for having a proper discussion today of what can be done to change the sad figures. Loneliness and lack of meaning in life are some of the things that really affect the mental well-being of older people. Conversely, it is in social association with others that people thrive and maintain mental health. We know it well: it is the association with others that stimulates and gives spark and zeal. We have a popular movement against loneliness. They co-eating and encourage the individual citizen to take part in the fight against loneliness. Civil society is in progress. That's good. But we do not have a systematic effort from the political side. We can also help to fight loneliness and misfortune from in here. The government has on several occasions promised an action plan for psychiatry and mental health. It might also be obvious here to include the mental health of older people as a special area of action. For the elderly, who have lost their network or their companion in life, it is probably more about whoever comes to help is genuinely interested and has the opportunity to spend his time with you. But when the nursing staff is so busy that there is no time to talk a little, we lose something very valuable. In the DR series the 180 days in nursing homes, where young people move into nursing homes, we get a really interesting insight into how to physically create a different framework during which generations meet committedly and can counteract loneliness and improve mental well-being. But it doesn't happen by itself. This happens by thinking about how we can develop the framework for it. Older people who are not so mobile should not be hidden away, but should be part of our community communities. We therefore have a task in creating the framework for the individual citizen, so that the individual citizen can make a contribution to combating loneliness. Adequate staff in the older sector is essential to provide qualified help, but today there is a shortage of staff in three out of four municipalities. There are simply no people who can do all the things that we in here want for the elderly. If we really really want to do something about the health of the elderly, something needs to be done about the lack of sosu helpers and assistants, so that it can be qualified and trained staff who come with the elderly and preferably the same every time; I think that is really important. A skilled person and one who is familiar with the elderly have much better opportunities to discover the dissatisfaction of the elderly and to make a qualified effort before the problems develop seriously. If we want to prevent misfortune and loneliness in the elderly, we also need to take stock of the fact that there are more elderly people. More and better housing must therefore be built so that the elderly have the opportunity to move to older collections or adapted elderly homes, where they can thrive and be challenged, and where association and community are intended. However, when the government goes to economic negotiations with the municipalities shortly, a narrow financial framework and a tight ceiling have been set on how much money the municipalities can spend to make it. If we agree that something needs to be done about the fact that for many elderly people they are lonely and have unsatisfactory mental health, then we need to invest in both prevention and in several of the existing offers, because there will be more elderly people and therefore there will also be more pressure on the offers that already exist. The government's narrow economic framework is particularly problematic at a time of great economic leeway. There really should be money to invest in the elderly. And while we're at the economy, it's going the wrong way. The economy simply does not follow demography. It's something like 6 billion. kr. Until 2021, it takes just to keep the same level. In addition, the number of home help hours has decreased significantly, i.e. by 6 million hours over approx. 10 years. It is during the period when there have actually been more elderly people. So it's not gonna last at all. Then I would like to remind you that the Enhedslisten has done several times to get extra billions for the older sector without having had any significant impact on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132506	One moment, there are brief comments. This is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132511	Thank you. I would just like to say thank you for your speech, and then, in respect of the fact that the rapporteur is a standin, I would just like to acknowledge that the rapporteur is addressing this very point about the fact that there are social structures that can be changed. The rapporteur mentioned this: older people, including those who are not mobile, will be included in ordinary urban life. I think that this is important political objectives that we must have, namely that we also recognise that we can change structuralally some things that will improve the mental well-being of older people. So it was just an acknowledgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132554	Of course, the Enhedslisten fully agrees with this, but we will also remember to point out that it also requires economics.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132559	One more moment, there is one more brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132606	Thank you. I am very pleased with the answer that the rapporteur gave here at the end, namely that it requires an economy, and I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur recognises that, overall, more money is being spent in the area of the elderly under this government than under the former Socialist-led government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132623	I certainly don't think you can measure it that way. There have been ups and downs, and it is true that some billions have come out. I can clearly state that Enhedslisten has also made proposals in the past for an extra billion kroner to go to the municipalities, but it was just displaced. So I don't think you can make it up that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132641	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132644	I hear it as if the Enhedslisten does not recognise that, overall, more money is being spent in the municipalities in the area of the elderly under this government than under the former Socialist-led government. So let me ask you something else. Enhedslisten recognizes that this government has actually raised the elderly area by 2 billion. kr. In 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132706	The problem is that it obviously does not live up to the demography itself, i.e. that there have been so many more elderly people, so that it does not mean that there is extra money for each elderly person.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132714	There is one more comment. This is Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132718	Thank you. Now the rapporteur says that according to the estimates of the Ministry of Finance, 6 billion will be needed. kr. extra to maintain the same level of service. Can the rapporteur confirm that the Ministry of Finance does not take into account smarter workflows and technological development?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132740	I really can't confirm that because I don't know how they figured it out. But it is clear that some things can be done with smarter workflows, but I can also assure you that it is precisely in association with older people that it is time with older people that means everything. And you can't keep cutting that down.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132756	Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132757	I can then tell you that it is the case that the Ministry of Finance does not take these things into account. Technological development alone has made it more efficient for some 500 million. kr. in the municipalities since 2014. It is money that stays in the municipalities and that can be used for better care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132821	Well, I hope it's as positive as it's being described. I'm not so optimistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132825	We are therefore grateful to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Then it is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup who is on her way to the platform as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524132840	Thank you. With this inquiry debate, the alternative wants to focus on the mental health of older people and what you can do to support good mental health. It is also important and it is an important debate. But it is also clear that both mental and physical health gradually deteriorates when you get older. I don't think a very united Parliament can do much about that. It's probably the course of life. However, I believe that the essential thing in relation to this issue is to ensure a good framework for the greatest possible well-being throughout your life. And I believe that there should be a high degree of self-determination. Older people should not be treated as children. Dignity is to be taken seriously by family, friends, and caregivers. When the health agenda is generally discussed, many often move in a different direction. A few years ago, for example, we could have done something like this. hear a nursing home manager tells on the news that the elderly were not allowed to get lemonade because there are healthier alternatives. I believe that such an approach to the elderly is completely incompatible with the desire to provide a framework for a good and dignified life. In addition, I believe that strong communities among the elderly should be emphasised. Many elderly people suffer from loneliness, that is quite right. So it is important that there are good opportunities for a strong association among the elderly, that there is the possibility of joint activities in nursing homes. It is known that this is extremely important for the mental health of the elderly. That is why we have also launched a large number of initiatives in this area with the Rate Pool and the Finance Act for 2018. We have a vision that there must be dignity in the care of the elderly, and one of the points of this vision is precisely access to community for everyone. In addition, however, it must also be said that this is not just about politics. Many elderly people find that families do not visit as often as they would like. It is important that the family and civil society in general mean even more than what political decisions are made in here. And it's important to have that humility with this kind of problem. The Liberal Alliance supports the text read by the Danish People's Party rapporteur, Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524133113	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524133116	Thank you. Finally, the rapporteur mentions that it is not just a question of politics but also that many families do not visit the elderly as often as they have done. However, we cannot force families to visit older citizens, so it is not a question of us taking note of this, in other words that something has changed culturally, so that families are not as close to each other as they used to be, and then trying to create a political framework that helps in relation to the changed structures. As I mentioned earlier, there are some who think in generation houses and other things where you can support politically that the elderly are not left without a family visiting you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524133204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524133205	Yes, but generally speaking, I would like us to have much smaller states and to have more citizens, more civil societies, to have responsibility and initiative back to the citizens, instead of the public taking over everything. This does not mean that I believe that there should be no public welfare, because at least there must be, and we must have welfare to help all the weakest and most vulnerable, including our elderly. However, we could make a combination of a little more citizen, a little more society, which the rapporteur is actually calling for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524133243	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524133245	Now we were in Japan on a study trip, which several people have mentioned here. It has happened that in the past it was the wife of the eldest son who cared for the elderly, so that they were not in nursing homes, for example, but the structures have changed because the oldest son's wife has a job. In Denmark too, structures have changed. Maybe there's no family around here at all. It is easy to say that responsibility and initiative must be returned, but what if people do not want to take that responsibility? What if people want to live in a different way? Then we must help politically so that the elderly are not left behind, all alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524133324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524133326	Well, I totally agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524133330	Thank you. Then we move on, and it's for Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524133339	Thank you for that, President. If you want to live long, you have to put up with getting very old, and fortunately many older people also have a good and long old age, where new interests can be tested and where new friendships arise, but it is not always so great to get very old. Sickness, loneliness, sorrow, and poverty can make the last years of life too cramped. That is why it is also an important question to which the alternative has called today. When medical practice is often summed up in three words, healing, soothing and comforting, it is precisely an expression that we cannot cure everything, but that we can and must soothe and comfort. But this requires a health service where there is also time for that part of the effort. In a health service where the number of permanent employees does not even cover the most vital tasks, it is not possible to take the time for the deep conversation on how to remedy the loss of functions and opportunities for support and assistance for crisis management and for re-orientation towards a different life than might have been expected. This also applies very much to municipal care for the elderly, where time, relationships and influence on their own lives play a crucial role in mental health and for the citizen who loses his own resources to take care of himself. Recovering a life on its own terms despite weakening and sickness is essential to a dignified old age. It is about what help we as a society offer, but above all about having the time for the effort. This presupposes, for example, that the municipalities are compensated for the need for help for more and more elderly people. It is also a question of recognising that continuity is a prerequisite for quality and that, therefore, we are really working to ensure that older people, with the need for help, can have their own helper. It's hard to lose someone close to you. Several municipalities themselves take the initiative to visit citizens who have recently lost a spouse or a life partner, and this makes sense. Often a single visit is enough because it can be found that the citizen's own network can remedy the crisis and the re-orientation phase, but for the citizen who has no network, follow-up visits and support for the creation of a new network can make sense. The same applies to lonely citizens who, on the other hand, may be difficult to track down for the municipality if the citizen does not receive benefits from the municipality. Perhaps, however, the practitioner here is a person who could play a more active role if the doctor can clearly refer to real offers under local authority. Finally, I think it is important to take a final element into consideration on how to improve the mental health of older people, because more and more elderly people are living in real poverty, and precisely poverty can be the real barrier when it comes to creating a larger network, continuing to work with a particular hobby, etc. Therefore, I also think that e.g. Elders Tags og Danske Seniorer's focus on poverty among the elderly should be a theme that we must pay attention to. The SF also supports the proposal for adoption read out by the Socialist rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524133655	Thank you, therefore, to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Then we've reached the Minister for the Elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524133706	Thank you for today's debate. I think we have had a good discussion on the mental health of the elderly. We have discussed both the challenges and the concrete initiatives in place to improve the mental health of older people. As I said in my opening speech, the mental health of older people is an issue that I take very seriously. This is also why, in recent years, the government has helped to take initiatives on a number of initiatives that strengthen the mental health of older people. This is among other things. with the Dementia Action Plan, preventive home visits, dignity policies and various community initiatives, such as the pot for elderly people affected by grief and loss of life, initiatives which, like the Danish Health Authority's recently updated mental health prevention package, should strengthen the efforts of the municipalities. These are all important measures, and I can say that the mental health of the elderly will also be a priority area for the government and for me as an elderly minister. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524133814	There are no brief comments here on my board, so we thank the Minister for the Elderly. Then I understand that the rapporteur for the questioners would like to round off. And it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor who is on her way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524133846	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and thank the rapporteurs for the very good and constructive debate we have had today on the mental health and well-being of the elderly. When you hear how much we are actually doing and how many positive proposals there are actually from the rapporteurs in the Chamber and from the Minister, you may well wonder why so many older people are still not thriving. So that is what I stand a little thinking after our debate here: that we all agree that we have to do something. And we are also doing something that we have set in motion many initiatives. As both the Minister have mentioned, and as several rapporteurs have mentioned, we have set in motion an initiative on homeliness in nursing homes and an initiative which I was also very pleased to be part of the pool of rates, namely this one with grief and regret. We have launched many different good initiatives, but unfortunately too many older people do not thrive. Of course, we can't do anything overnight... that goes on for a while... but there's something that tells me that it's some big structural upheavals we see in our society that make older lonely people sit back. As I said before, it may also have something to do with the fact that we have thought that all elderly people have to live in senior housing, so you only stick with some in the same age group, and it is not certain that it is the best, not for everyone at least. In this way, I think we should have looked at a lot of things: generation houses and what we saw in Japan, where it is in all the small districts that you make use of older people who have more energy in them, for example. in workplaces dealing with children. I also think that we need to have a great deal of attention on the word care, because care is one of the most basic features for us as people; it is, of course, that we care for others, and I think that sometimes has gone a little back in nursing. I also hear some nurses saying that for nurses and nursing care is actually very central, and if there is no time for that part, or if there is no focus on it, we also have a problem. So I think we should also focus on caring. So I think that my conclusion to this very fine debate today, as in the proposal we had just before, which was actually about the well-being of young people, and where the proposal was that there should be a welfare commission, is that it would be very good if we also in the area of the elderly were to have a welfare commission that looked at using all the data we have and collected them, and that we also looked at what recommendations we have on institutional structures and social structures that can be changed, so that the prosperity of the elderly is increased. So I will end with that and thank you for a very good debate. And I look forward to working with both the Minister and the other rapporteurs to find some action in relation to the well-being of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524134225	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I would point out that the vote on the proposals for adoption, as mentioned, will not take place until Tuesday 29 May 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524134246	I would also point out here that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 29 May. We need to justify the question, and it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen who is doing so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524134308	Thank you. Now we have had a discussion on the well-being of children. We have just discussed the well-being of the elderly, and now we have to stay on track and talk about the well-being of the public employees. Because there is in fact only one thing worse than a stressful physical and psychological working environment, and that is that you do not find that those responsible take the problem seriously. In many different versions we have listened to the employees' criticism of working conditions, norms, lack of priorities of necessary resources, and most recently in the form of a study from the FTF, where 22 per cent. FTF members say that in some form they feel stressed all the time or often. It can hardly have escaped anyone's attention that recent collective bargaining was also characterised by very little confidence and a perception that there was probably a hidden agenda. A debate on well-being and good work therefore makes very good sense, and we have therefore made a question which states: What can the Minister say about the plans for the development of government personnel policy, including how the working environment can be improved, the level of stress can be reduced and more trusting relationships can be created?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524134431	Thank you for the explanatory statement. Then we need an answer and it is from the Minister for Public Innovation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524134438	As Minister for Public Innovation, I am naturally concerned that things are going well not just in the state but throughout the public sector. If we compare ourselves with other countries, it basically goes well on very many parameters in Denmark, and this is not least because we have one of the world's best welfare societies. The public employees go every day to work to make a difference, and they do I see managers and employees in the state make a difference every day. This applies to the engineer, who creates infrastructure so that we can easily get from a to b; it applies to the priest, who creates joy when our children are confirmed, it applies to the police officer, who creates security, and many, many more out of the total 180,000 employees in the state jobs that each day contribute to our well-being. As Minister for Innovation, I am also naturally concerned about the development of the public sector. For, of course, it can get better and it is only healthy to have a look at where it can be improved and how we can jointly try to do so. It should be easier for public jobs to solve their core task effectively and competently for the benefit of Denmark and the Danes. We must ensure that employees have more time for their core task by weeding out unnecessary trouble and bureaucracy, and we must ensure a smarter management of our welfare areas with a focus on quality, so that there is better room for professionalism and more focus on the results rather than the processes. And every day there is a variety of tasks in the state ranging from education at sosu schools, colleges and universities to the many tasks of the defence and police and to the administration of agencies and departments, which in turn have very different content. If you look at the tasks and the requirements of competence, you can see that the range in the state is large, but common to all the tasks of the state is that they are carried out by people who go to work every day and who, among other things, go to work. are motivated by the fact that they are allowed and want to use their professional skills and solve the tasks in the best possible way. As Minister for Public Innovation, I am concerned that we have a good working environment in state workplaces. A good working environment is important for the individual, for colleagues and for the workplace as a whole. At the same time, citizens and companies who are in contact with some of our many skilled employees in the state are indirectly affected by both good and less good conditions. Of course, we must take this seriously. So the working environment is important yes. But the variation in what it takes to create the good working environment locally is great, and can also change from workplace to workplace, because jobs are now different and therefore also have different needs. I'm thinking that the prison warden in the department may put something different in a good psychological work environment than the employee at the Danish Meteorological Institute. I also think it is natural that we should therefore work with the working environment in different ways at the different jobs in the state. This does not mean that the individual workplace should be left alone. For example, in the area of the State, networks have been established between the health and safety managers of the ministerial areas for inspiration and knowledge sharing. In addition, a committee of experts on working conditions has been set up under the auspices of the Ministry of Employment and will of course also be inspired by the State. The State is also represented in e.g. The Working Environment Council and the Community of Industries for Safety and Health at Work. In the Working Conditions Council, employers and employees cooperate on the continued development of a better working environment in Denmark. Its activities and activities are joint initiatives for which both employers' and employees' organisations are united and responsible. Basically, I believe that the good working environment is created when employees thrive and are motivated to solve the tasks most appropriately. It is my experience that the employees of the state will work and every day be motivated by being involved in making a difference. And often it is the feeling of delivering the goods that gives the greatest job satisfaction in everyday life, regardless of who you are or where you work at one of the state jobs. I can give you the example of the Copenhagen Police Department. The Copenhagen Police Office has been nominated for the Health and Safety Prize, which was recently awarded. Through focus on mental driving techniques, Copenhagen Police has managed to reduce the number of road accidents and injuries to vehicles. This effort has been created by employee-driven attention and not by a common government personnel policy. Sickness absenteeism is very often seen as an indicator of occupational health and safety at work. That is why it is also important to pay attention to work-related absenteeism, and I am therefore pleased to see that for the second year in a row the jobs of the State have reduced sickness absence. This means that more people go to work every day for the benefit of our entire society. If you compare sick leave in 2010 with the latest figures for 2017, you can see that every government employee was on average ill 1 day less in 2017 than in 2010. This means that the individual is less ill and it is positive for the individual. However, this also means that 150,000 more days have been released in the jobs in 2017 than in 2010. It is time that can be used to provide better welfare, and the sickness absence in the state can and should also be able to go further down. When it comes to stress, the latest figures from the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work show that government employees are at about the same level as the national average both if you look publicly and privately at the issues of stress in employees' everyday lives. But numbers are one thing. Because if the experience in some local jobs is that you have stress problems, it is of course important to focus on how to overcome the stress. I also get worried when you hear that more and more people are experiencing and feeling stressed in everyday life. What triggers stress is individual, just as symptoms and reactions are very individual. But whether stress is triggered by work or things that happen in your private life, it becomes a common problem at work and requires a focused effort to get over. My focus is on prevention, so we minimize that it even comes to this. That is why I am also pleased that, under the current collective bargaining process, agreement has been reached in the state field to develop and offer voluntary leadership training in the prevention and management of mental health and safety at work. The relationship between managers and employees is central to ensuring a good working environment, and management training must support managers with staff responsibilities in their work to create a good psychological working environment in the workplace. As SF points out in their query, cooperation and trusting relations between management and employees are important elements in having a good working environment in the individual workplace. I fully agree with that. In order to support local jobs in creating cooperation, well-being and trust, we, as collective partners, have concluded cooperation agreements that apply to the jobs of the state. The agreement lays down the framework for both the work of the cooperation committees and general cooperation at the State's workplaces. The spirit of the cooperation agreement is that good and trusting cooperation creates quality, well-being and innovation. In line with the approach to a government personnel policy, it is in the cooperation agreement that the agreement must make sense locally. That is why the agreement is very much in line with the fact that it is up to local works councils to decide what is meaningful for them to work with locally. In order to help the local works councils in the state jobs, the collective bargaining has agreed to continue the Joint Cooperation Secretariat of the Party. It is in everyday life that management and employees individually and jointly solve the welfare tasks for the benefit of all of us. Changes in the labour market are taking place at an ever faster and faster pace. There have always been changes in the labour market, but perhaps the new one is that they are happening even faster than they did in the past, thereby also making increasing demands on our ability to keep up. That is why I also believe that the development of competence will be an even more important factor in the labour market that we are looking into. We need to focus on competences for the future labour market, because right competences are also one of the important tools to ultimately also provide better welfare. When managers and employees in the public sector are well dressed to be able to carry out their duties, it results in fewer frustrations, but it also ultimately results in greater job satisfaction. And when the civil servants are skilled and become more skilled, we all get better welfare as well. We have just set aside 172 million for the renewal of the agreements. kr. during the contract period for the development of competence of the State's employees. This is positive, and in addition we spend some 500 million in the state. kr. a year on skills development, courses and conferences, etc., where employees expand their skills and find new inspiration. I see this as an investment in the people who work every day to deliver our common welfare. A good working environment is inextricably linked to good management. It is essential that the managers set the direction and meet the employees in a good dialogue on the solution of their tasks and the development of the skills of the employees. There are a great many skilled managers in the public sector, and that is a huge force. Perhaps we have even compared with other countries' public sectors some of the world's most well-educated teams of public leaders. But there are also challenges and there is a potential to make it even better. I have a clear ambition that management must be of the highest quality in the public sector, both when we compare ourselves internationally and when we compare ourselves with other parts of society. Better governance is a key track for the government in the work of renewing the public sector and getting better welfare for the money. I look forward to receiving soon the Management Commission's recommendations on how management can be strengthened in the public sector. We in the government will follow them up, and in the early autumn we will present a management and competence reform as part of the cohesion reform reform programme. We must support the state's jobs with knowledge. We must help to find the good solutions for the benefit of jobs, employees and welfare. However, personnel policies must also be anchored locally, especially in the state, where it has to be said that the diversity of tasks and jobs is very great. I am very confident that the government leaders and the cooperation bodies are working seriously on this task. As a government, we will present the cohesion reform in the autumn, and it will consist of a series of reform trails and partial reforms, and our objective with the cohesion reform is clear: that we will have a better and more coherent public sector, that we will ensure that employees have more time for their core tasks, that we ensure smarter governance of welfare areas, so that there will be better scope for professionalism and more focus on results, and that we will be better able to make better use of technological opportunities across the public sector. And then we must promote good leadership that makes an active difference every day. Both for the many talented, committed employees who are employed not only in the state, but also throughout the public sector, but also for the quality of the welfare that we every day in the public sector make available to citizens and businesses. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524135835	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524135844	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Minister for answering the question. I therefore agree with the Minister that efficiency and governance and governance and coherence are issues of concern to the government and with which the government is also working. However, the question debate is precisely about staff policy, because it is also important to focus on public employees' confidence in the public sector, to us, to the government. Sophie Løhde will stop the wage party, which was a headline back in December in the middle of public employees' collective bargaining. Although I know that the Minister does not write the box himself, in the wake of the announcements to the government employees, the announcement was made that customs for free days and lunch breaks should be terminated. In advance, the country's primary school teachers were still disheartened by Law 409, which had replaced their previous working time rules. Teachers felt offended at the fact that lost working time rules had to finance a new reform of primary school, although welfare improvements are usually something we all fund in the community. It is precisely that signal that has also rubbed off on the temperature of the negotiations. It was almost déjà vu when it became clear that the State's chief negotiator was in possession of a contract which would result in a very large wage bonus if the boss could make a proposal for collective bargaining which would not burden public budgets. Although the Minister has picked up good examples of good efforts, there are still unresolved tasks. For example, there are still no concrete initiatives on the way, although the collective bargaining also proved that the staff in hospitals and in the care of the elderly and in the disabled institutions could not set up emergency preparedness for a possible strike because there were not enough permanent staff. There may be good reasons to take state economic considerations into account in the management of the public sector, but when we leave the public sector employees with the impression that it is their pay and working conditions that are intended to finance the Danish Parliament's decisions on tax cuts, welfare improvements and much more, we are also obliged, with the SF's eyes, to deal with it. In SF we are actually ready to go all the way, and if we had power as we have been watching, we would simply move the board of staff far away from the Ministry of Finance. We don't. However, we have the right to demand that the government take the employees' obvious and perhaps justified mistrust quite seriously and that the government make maximum efforts to improve the working conditions of the employees. We must do so because it makes sense for the well-being of employees, but also because a good working environment is valuable to society and to citizens. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left, the Alternative and the SF, I will read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the political management of the Modernisation Authority has led to a number of statements that have contributed to increased distrust among the public employees. There is a strong need for a public sector in which we trust our employees and their professionalism. For this reason, the Danish Parliament calls on the Prime Minister to promote human resources policy in order to strengthen the working environment and to strengthen labour satisfaction and confidence. • V 62).
ParlaMint-DK_20180524140223	Thank you to the rapporteur. The read-out proposal is also part of the negotiations from here. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524140239	Thank you for the floor. I'm here instead of our rapporteur, sir. Benny Engelbrecht, and will read the rapporteur's speech on behalf of the Social Democratic Party. Thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for raising an important debate. This is a debate which is, of course, about how we can reduce stress and increase the job satisfaction of our government employees, but where most people cannot avoid thinking back to the process of collective bargaining that we have just been through and where the vote is still taking place in the professional organisations. I think everyone felt that there was a lot at stake when you met a teacher or a nurse during the long weeks when we were waiting for the negotiations, and we could probably also see that it was about more than what was narrowly discussed in the meeting rooms. It was basically about trust and the broad conditions that you are subject to when you are a public servant. Are you recognized for the work you do? Is there any way to make the schedule stick together? Do we have to run even stronger when there are more older people in the future? It seems that neither the Modernisation Board nor the government had a complete feeling that for many it was about much more than what was specifically discussed in the conference room. There seems to be something fundamental at stake that we need to rectify, and we have said very clearly in the Social Democratic Party: we think it is quite wrong to plan after having fewer welfare workers, which the government is still proposing in its 2025 plan. For it is clear that things are connected: a poor rating and fewer hands mean that the sosu must run stronger to achieve the same in one day. The Social Democratic Party proposed to calm the public sector, that as a token of agreement between the parties on new agreements, we could agree that we should keep our hands on welfare, that we should keep the money going when, fortunately, we grow older and more children. Public servants need to hear that. At the same time, we have said that we should start a reform work which actually leaves more room for trust and professionalism for employees in welfare, because our path to increasing job satisfaction and increasing productivity is also a belief that our institutions and employees are doing their best. We still have a public sector that other countries envy because it is efficient and has highly qualified staff with good education. It is good that the government is working on a cohesion reform that will hopefully simplify and clean up bureaucracy, but we are also looking forward to further discussions on how to put it into practice. We think that we should go ahead with a fight with the way and logic in which we have driven our public sector, because all parts have not necessarily created better welfare and more quality for money. We want less governance and more leadership. We would like to see multiannual budgets calming the economy. If public employees in the future can solve tasks both wiser and cheaper, there may be good reason to let the individual kindergarten or school keep part of the prize itself. The approach stands in stark contrast to just cutting 2%. of all budgets once a year and hope for the best. It creates discouragement instead of courage for development. Of course, there must be respect for taxpayers' money. Of course, patients need their treatment on time. Of course, there must also be control and supervision so that we can do better, but we cannot do it without committed, skilled and happy employees, and we must be able to do better than today. That is why we have also announced that we are quite sure that we should change the way in which the state acts as an employer. The one-sided focus on pure expenditure management must be replaced by the fact that the state can enter into a real partnership with employees to develop the public sector. More work needs to be done to improve the working environment and to increase the job satisfaction of employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524140629	Thank you to Mrs Christine Antorini. And then it's sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524140644	Thank you. The question is this: what can the Minister say about plans for the development of government personnel policy, including how the working environment can be improved, the level of stress can be reduced and more trusting relationships can be created? And I would like to say at the outset that I think it is a little out of the powers of the legislative power, because we are the legislative power, and it is the state and the government that are the executive, and that it is also below, that personnel policy actually belongs. I cannot, of course, say much about what the government and government plans are about personnel policy and the working environment, but it is clearly important to ensure that stress levels are reduced. What do you do, for example? for the maintenance of seniors and to ensure that there is a more flexible framework for families with children? These are extremely important areas, but I cannot, of course, go into such great depth in the specific areas, as I am not a minister, but I would like to make some more general observations. The fact that there is a good working environment and a good staff policy in government organisations and, as such, everywhere else is of course extremely important and a crucial point for having a good organisation. It is extremely important that you have a good and present management that you know you can have confidence in with regard to the decisions that are being taken and that you as an employee to perhaps get rid of your frustrations can also go to and say that you have too many tasks on the table right now. That, of course, also says that there must be a relationship of trust so that you have confidence in being able to go to your boss. Of course, a good working environment also affects financial management and, as I understand it, part of the debate is taking place. also about what the focus of the Modernisation Agency is. For it is clear that if there is a poor mental working environment in a workplace or if you are under heavy pressure from tasks, it leads to more sick employees, and of course more sick employees also mean that the employees who are then left have to run even faster. Frustrated employees also provide a poor service because they have a different radiance, which may be felt, and the welfare and service experience of the Danes they are dealing with again. So in this way, the working environment in relation to financial management is of course also an extremely important thing. The State's personnel policy can also be quite crucial in other areas, such as: I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. Another important aspect of what is mentioned in the question text, which I would like to mention, is stress and work-related stress, which has gradually become a public disease. Of course, this is also naturally linked to work pressure, but overall I think you can say that what gets you stressed out is what you don't reach. Well, that's not because you have a lot of tasks, but because the tasks you don't get to, and you worry about and wonder about, are piled up in your mind so you can't sleep at night at the end of the night. I say this from my own experience, as I myself was on sick leave with stress a year ago and know how unpleasant it can be, and for many people it requires a long-term report which can be quite difficult to get out of. So it really has to be taken seriously that action must also be taken on this in the state organisations. So I actually think you'll see, if you look at why people get stressed, that it's of course very work-related, but I think you should also look at it so that you ask some questions about what it really is that does it. Why are we much more stressed today than we were 30 years ago? This applies to all sectors, whether it is in the state or in the private sector, or where it is now, that there are just people who suffer from stress all of a sudden. I think part of the explanation isn't the whole explanation, but part of the explanation is that we're always on. We must always be on Facebook, several times a day we must check in and check; we must always check our mail, if there is anything new from work, and we have the phone with all places, so we are simply available 24 hours a day. I think that many people can nod to the fact that you check Facebook almost every hour or check if there is a text message or a new e-mail, which means that you are always available, but it also means that the brain never gets a breathing space, so you never get those moments where you can just gear down a little and give the brain the air it needs so you don't get stressed. I really think we need to move towards a change of culture in our society, not just in state organisations, which the debate is about here, but in general, so that it should be okay to be unavailable; that it is fine, that you don't necessarily have a mobile phone on you all the time; that you don't have to be active on Facebook, that people can see what you're doing out of exercise, what you're eating, and other things; that it should be okay that you also say off, so that sometimes you say that I can't answer the phone today; I'm not exactly available to my employer, or that Saturday and Sunday I don't check my mail. It's gotta be okay. I actually think that many people are feeling differently today, because they think that if you have your employer's phone, you might also have to keep a close eye on what is happening. So, of course, it's about the number of tasks you have, and especially about those you don't get to, but of course it's also about the fact that, besides being able to say no, you have to have a good management to go to, so you can get rid of your frustration if you have too much to do; that you're sure if you're feeling bad and the psychological working environment is bad, that you can also go to your boss with that frustration. So, of course, it's about a trusting relationship with your leader and having some good leaders who can also handle these situations. Finally, I would like to say that I noticed that the Minister said that in the autumn a cohesion reform will be introduced with a focus on management and competences, and we are, of course, very much looking forward to this from the Danish People's Party. I do not know whether it will come to some discussion with the parties of the Folketing, or whether it is something that can be achieved on its own, but at least we think it is an incredibly important and exciting report that will come later, and then we come to the last thing I have to say. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, Martin Geertsen from the Left, Henrik Dahl from the Liberal Alliance and Rasmus Jarlov from the Conservatives, under the heading "Plans for the development of the state sector's personnel policy," I hereby present the following: Proposals for adoption • A good working environment is important for the individual and for the workplace as a whole. This applies to the state as to public and private jobs throughout Denmark. A well-functioning public sector is characterised by trusting relations and cooperation between management and employees. Staff policies must be experienced relevant and present and translated into cooperation between managers and employees. It's about exercising good leadership. Motivated and committed employees thus experience a greater job satisfaction for the benefit of welfare. This direction must be a driving force for public sector personnel policy, including the state. It is therefore important to support a focused effort in relation to work-related stress, reduction of absenteeism, etc. When challenges are experienced in the state's workplaces, managers must be able to obtain advice and guidance on good solutions for the benefit of employees, jobs and welfare. The Danish Parliament notes that in the autumn, under the context reform, the government will come up with a management and competence reform. • V 63).
ParlaMint-DK_20180524141403	Thank you. The proposal is part of the further negotiations. But there is one brief comment. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524141411	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech in this question debate. I think it is a good thing that we all agree so far that a good working environment is important. At least we can wing it off, I guess. I also agree with the rapporteur that, in reality, stress is becoming a people's disease. You can then discuss whether you just get stressed by what you don't reach, or whether it's other things that play a part. But I certainly agree that it is stressful if it is the case that you do not get to answer the call from the citizen who needs to go to the bathroom or you do not get the answer to the question that the child thought was important to get asked. This is, of course, a contributing factor, but I also believe that increasing demands and control functions may play a role along the way. But I really just want to ask Dansk Folkeparti: To what extent does the Danish People's Party think that resources, in other words enough in everyday life, play a role for the employees' working environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524141519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524141522	That, of course, has a role to play. To comment on the first point, I would like to say that, of course, this is not only what you do not reach, but that it is also what you simply do not achieve in a satisfactory way. And it is also a resource issue. Well, if you have a lot of older people, you have to visit as a home helper in a day, then it can be frustrating and stressful, because you don't feel you're there enough for those people, and that you might not just have the minute extra where you can just make sure you give them a proper bath instead of a quick wash just to mention a rough example. So, of course, resources mean something. That was among other things. also why we helped to abolish this 2-percent saving requirement that had been in really, very many years in the healthcare sector. We could see that it had gone too far; that it had gone too far along a tangent, where the nurses and other staff in the hospitals had simply got into a situation where they had to run too fast, to put it like it was. So, of course, resources also matter in the context of many other parameters. But it is clear that if there are more hands to do a task, there is not the same frustration that you do not get things done well enough and therefore get stressed over the things you do not reach in a satisfactory way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524141622	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524141625	Thank you for that, because it was important to abolish the 2-percent productivity requirement. So we have not quite been able to replace the loss, you might say, of resources that followed the 2-percent productivity requirement, and that means that we see too many beds over and over again in hospitals. So does the Danish People's Party think that we should also make sure that we fill the holes that have been created and that we get more beds on the halls, and that it is harder to reach the visits that you would like to make, for example in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524141701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524141704	Yes, it does. That's one of them. Therefore, for many years we have had the same economic policy, namely that there must be room for growth in the public sector, where other parties have been at a lower level, and some have wanted us to have minus growth. We say that it must of course be the case that we can deal with that, for example. More older people are coming. It is positive that we live longer, but there must also be some who can take care of it when you need it. When you can research and heal many more things, which is also positive, there is also a need for more doctors and nurses. That is precisely why, in economic terms, we think we should have room to cover what is called the demographic move. In other words, more money is needed in the public sector so that we can resolve the issues that the questioner is just asking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524141744	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen from the Left Party • Denmark's so-called liberal party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524141758	Denmark's continuing liberal party. Thank you very much, President. May I begin by congratulating the authors, because it is simply incredibly clever to raise a question debate which we who have read the text thought was about the working environment and stress and that sort of thing, and suddenly it has developed into such a general, fundamental debate on the organisation of the public sector in general and the level of public expenditure, the situation in hospitals, economic negotiations in municipalities and regions that are implicit in this. The questioners will have to say what they want, but I will now, at least in the first place, allow me to deal with what the question on paper is about. After all, the Minister has already explained a great deal in detail about the personnel policy of the State sector, and the Minister has also elaborately presented the plans for how the government believes the working environment in the state sector in general can be improved. I would like to save the House a few repetitions of this and instead add a few general remarks to what I originally thought was the reason for the question. The questioners are right to say that the debate and the debate on the working conditions of the state sector and the working conditions of employees in the state sector are important and that it is also an ongoing discussion which has been there over the past many years. And none of us makes any illusions that it is not a debate that continues, whatever may be of political differences. And this is an important discussion, because it is important that we ensure the best possible working conditions, both in the state sector, but indeed in the public sector in general. I do not believe that we will solve the challenges of the state sector in relation to the working environment and in the public sector in general, by abolishing one or the other governing body or reorganising one or the other governing body and then creating new governing bodies in the Ministry of Finance, in the Ministry of Employment, or whatever else it may be, as the SF proposes. And at the very least, I think that there is such a little confusion between the legislative and the executive authorities here, all the way up to the big and fundamental blade. In other words, if we are going to discuss the establishment or abolition of new regimes here in the Parliament, every time the SF or, for that matter, any other party has some political agenda that we would like to promote, yes, we are going to go on an exaggeration, in my view, in principle, where we cannot really find a way of separating the legislative and executive authorities from each other. In any case, it is my impression that both the Factory Inspectorate and the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work and all sorts of other bodies, both in the state sector and in the public sector in general, are doing a great deal of work to deal with the working environment, including the state sector. So I would actually say that we already have a solid foundation in the ministries to deal with these issues, also in the future. But that does not happen, and I agree with the authors of the debate that the debate is irrelevant, because it is there, and we can just say that by opening the newspaper. That is why, as I said, there is already an existing effort, but new initiatives are also under way, as the Minister outlined earlier. In any case, regardless of how much we are discussing this in Parliament, and I think that should be done. I think the most important element is that, in relation to the local workplace, whether it is in the state, regions or municipalities, we ensure that managers have the best tools in order to manage the working environment. In this respect, I am also looking forward to the government presenting a cohesion reform this autumn, which will in all likelihood deal with some of these issues as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524142245	Then we have one brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524142250	I think I have tried to say that the second worst after a strained working environment is if you find that you cannot count on listening to the problems that you actually have. In fact, I believe that it is part of a psychologically strained working environment that you also look at the relationship of trust and trust. I do not believe that public sector employees are sitting on their ears when it is the case that we are discussing the organisation of the public sector, and certainly not when the government does so. Effectiveness has long since been translated into savings and that we need to reduce sick leave has long since been translated into direct savings, unless they have actually done so before they reap the benefits. But it is precisely because things are not going on in this way that you get this lack of confidence back, so the question is also about getting a debate on how we can create a trusting relationship again, where you don't think that those who sit on the money force actually also operate to save on the employees' working environment or the employees' wages for that matter in one and the same move.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524142359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524142401	I did not hear any question, but I will nevertheless comment on what the questioner said. I respect the Danish model, which means that many of these issues relating to pay and working conditions are dealt with in the labour market. I cannot help but tease a tiny bit, because when the author's party was in government, we had to intervene in a conflict in the labour market, and I thought that even at that time I was helping to push the same button as the party comrades of the questioner was a bad situation to end up in, and I certainly see that the Danish model is respected. This applies both to the private labour market and to the public labour market. We have just got some agreements in place, without the need to intervene in these matters from the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524142504	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524142507	That's absolutely right, but we didn't have to, but it was on a hanging hair, I think. I also respect the Danish model. I think that these are the most critical debates we have had for a long time and that they were just marked by whether we could count on each other, that is to say confidence seemed to have been really, really bad. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur because it is true that I forgot to ask the question at the end: does the rapporteur not agree that the confidence of employees in us, when we take decisions in the Folketing too, is furious about how to deal with a busy everyday life?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524142543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524142545	After all, this society that we have created together over many decades is characterised by being a society that works so well because we trust each other. That may be what characterises this society as something positive if we are to benchmark ourselves against all sorts of other societies. This also applies to the labour market. I do not know whether I share the quite as temperate interpretation as the questioner has, that it was all quite awful in these collective bargaining. There was probably also a lot going on on the cameras that didn't happen outside the cameras. However, I do not think that is the solution to what the questioner is suggesting here as the problem, that the Modernisation Board be abolished, and then we have a greater degree of confidence than what the questioner wants. I can't see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524142637	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's the Enhedslisten, and that's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524142648	I would like to begin by agreeing with the previous rapporteur that much of what we are talking about today is about working conditions in the public sector. That is also the most important part of it. At the same time, however, it is also a matter of an overall staff policy, and I would like to say that the political statements of the Modernisation Authority have not helped to promote mutual trust between staff and management. This applies to everything from collective announcements to constant cuts through permanent restructurings to unilateral terminations of usages. All of this helps to create a mistrust between the staff and the board of directors that will act as an employer. In general terms, I would point out that there are quite a lot of factors that affect the very poor working environment in the public sector in a number of respects. The first, of course, concerns the question of the resources allocated to each task. I think that is very important to be aware of: cuts are constantly being made. I don't have to call it efficiency and that kind of thing, because it's cuts. It is politically and economically determined when it is done in this way. I think that is very important to recognise: that is the way things are built up. It does not help to talk about a productivity requirement of 2%. a year as a factor that is just almost a natural law, because one assumes that the public employees have sat on their hands and spent time unnecessarily, or what is the prerequisite for such a mechanical cut? It doesn't make any sense, but it has created enormous pressure on employees. It is the case that fewer hands have to solve more tasks, and then there is also new content in the tasks, where the core tasks take up less and less and documentation constraints and such things take up more and more. At the same time, and this is also an important factor, there has been increased centralisation, which has increased the management layer and all the growing staff functions, with the associated need for the production of reports, communication and management meetings and this sort of thing considerably, and which creates both bureaucracy, but also a long distance from top management to the employees who have to carry out the work and thus also a thinning of what I call the core tasks. There are plenty of such examples that centralisation and arguments about economies of scale really lead to something I would rather call large-scale abusers. There are many groups in the state sector that are plagued by this sort of thing, for example. all from the teachers of the state educational institutions to the police officers. Within SKAT we have a premium example of the combination of large savings and relocations, which both destroy professionalism and seriously harm the community as a whole. Then there's the stress level. Stress is the biggest health and safety problem we have in Denmark if you are to believe the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work, and I think it is important. Of course, there are many reasons for this. Once again, I would like to mention the ongoing restructuring. In many of the state jobs I know, it has been seen that every time a new leader came along, a new restructuring had to be carried out because he saw the need to put himself through as an innovative and imaginative person. It is not fruitful for long-term work. I think it is important to say that we need as much a concept as we could call continuity as we need a concept that could be called adaptability. Both are, in fact, important, but it is always the adaptability that is being stressed. At least these constant restructurings are also a problem for the working environment. Then the Minister mentioned continuing training and skills development, and that is a point on which I fully agree. This is a key factor in enabling public employees to carry out changing tasks. There is no doubt that our society is so dynamic that the same person should not do the same thing he did ten years ago. However, stress has become a major element in the working environment, and therefore it is also a real problem that public employers do not recognise stress as a work-created disease. Now one of the rapporteurs mentioned that it is also our own fault, because we can just stop checking the e-mail every minute and stuff like that. It is possible that we who are in here can decide for ourselves whether we want to check our mail every minute or not. But there are no conditions at a public place of work. It is expected that you will be present and present at all times. There are, in fact, only rare examples of public management calling for people not to send e-mails in the middle of the night and such things. The important thing in this is that we take the stress problem seriously, that we take the health and safety problem seriously, and that we are aware of what restructuring leads to through insecurity and lack of trust between management and employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524143212	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524143222	Thank you for the floor, President. And I would also like to thank the authors of the question, who are, of course, Mr President. Jacob Mark and Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen to raise this debate, which is really important. I have had the main responsibility for developing the policy of the Liberal Alliance in relation to the public sector, which is why it is both a professional and a political pleasure to be allowed to discuss the issue of the development of the state sector today. Our policy with regard to the whole public sector, and therefore also with regard to the state sector, is that public jobs must be good jobs. What creates a good workplace is that the tasks are exciting, that the conditions for solving them are good, that management is good and that wages do not give rise to dissatisfaction, as they say. It is the case that public jobs are already very good. There's a high salary. There are regulated conditions. There are quite fine staff benefits and there are shorter working hours than in the private sector. But, of course, they can always be better, so this making public jobs better is something we naturally support in the Liberal Alliance. Having said that, however, I also think, and I am strengthened by listening to the debate in this Chamber, that we politicians also have a responsibility to maintain a true picture of the functioning of the public sector, so that we can have a fair starting point for our debate. As I have already said, staff benefits in the state sector are very competitive when compared with the benefits of staff benefits typical of the private sector. Working time is on average shorter than it is in the private sector, and wages are really good. On average, a primary school teacher earns more than a teacher in a private school, about 0.5 million. kr. a year. On average, a nurse earns about 450,000 kroner. a year. There are, and this is something my party may not be so enthusiastic about, constantly increasing resources. Since 2000, for example, public consumption has been low. increased by 136 billion. kr. according to figures just published by the Ministry of Finance. And I simply think that we politicians have some kind of moral obligation to describe in a right-wing way, and we really should not, when the comparison with the private sector is so good, talk it down, even though some of us literally live by talking it down. Of course, we should talk it up. Much can be done to improve working conditions in the state sector, but it does not just require that people turn to the government. In fact, it also requires that you turn to the Folketing. Because it is very much the Folketing that creates the unnecessary bureaucracy that is being drawn on in the public sector. Of course, there must be bureaucracy in a rule of law. In a sense, the legal state and bureaucracy are linked so that we have uniform procedures and we deal with cases on the basis of legal basis etc., but there is also much unnecessary bureaucracy. Although some of it comes from the administration of the legislation, most of it actually comes from the legislation itself. So I would like to end my rapporteur's speech by regretting that the governing parties cannot raise a question debate with the opposition, because I would like that to be the case if the possibility existed, and in such a theoretical question debate I would ask: what will the opposition do to ensure that the Folketing does not burden public employees with unnecessary and work-related unnecessary bureaucracy? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524143650	There is one brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524143655	Thank you. I would also very much like to remove some real bureaucracy, that is, what might actually be translated into some time. But I would like to remove it by trusting that employees can do something more than they actually can, i.e. by getting the conditions to do it first and foremost. And I believe that there are a great many people here who are listening for signals, as when the rapporteur says that public employees have a very good salary and that they also have a much shorter working time than everyone else. Because there are some who reflect in it and think that they cannot actually get a full-time position; that they actually have to settle for some day-to-day conditions; and that they actually think that there is a long way to go to 0.5 million. kr. In terms of salary. So does the rapporteur not agree that when we send out wrong signals that go too far, it naturally provokes the employee who already thinks that the pay slip could actually be a little better and that it is annoying not to be able to get full time when he actually needs it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524143751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524143753	The figures I have reproduced are average figures, and there will of course be some that are below average and some that are above average. But these are the figures of the trade union organizations themselves, and that is what is achieved on average. I do not think we should let ourselves be provoked too much by the facts. What I am saying is a fact, and it is clear, of course, that, in view of these facts, i.e. where the average is, a discussion must be held between the social partners on how to deal with pay and working conditions. I am also the research rapporteur to create such a proletariat of middle-aged external lecturers without a pension scheme. That is something we must think about very much, but it is one of the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524143850	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524143854	I mean, it's not a fact... not when the individual looks at his paycheck. It is an average, I admit, of the rapporteur, but for a great many of those who look at their pay slips, it looks somewhat different from what the rapporteur says here from the platform. It is just as when the Liberal Alliance's health rapporteur was quoted yesterday as saying that nurses should not run, but should leave, and that, moreover, it is all about removing bureaucracy and reducing sick leave. But the fact is, with beds on the hallways, the nurse's gonna have to run anyway. So how do we communicate in an honest tone so that employees actually recall themselves in it? And doesn't the Liberal Alliance really think they have a share of responsibility here too?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524143938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524143940	Well, the reason why employees in the public sector see such a sadly small amount in the bottom right corner of their pay slips if I don't remember completely wrong is that the taxes are so insanely high in this country. So we can do something about that if we can collect a majority to reduce taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524144000	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524144016	Thank you. I think it is always relevant to discuss how things are going in the public sector, which is why I am very pleased that the SF has taken the initiative in this debate. At the same time, I think it is a very complex debate, because I really think that it deals with a great many different things. When we talk about how the working environment can be improved and the stress level can be reduced and we can create more trusting relationships, what I want to focus on is the whole governance of the public sector and the way we have saved in the public sector. On the subject of governance, I think that there is no doubt that there is a very, very strict economic governance from the centre, that is, from Christiansborg, and I think that what has clearly frustrated public employees over the last many years, including under the previous government and before that, has been the repeated method of salami cutting off a small cut every time the public jobs have to save, in fact, without giving them the opportunity to make their own savings in one area or another. You've just been forced into this salami method. I have also mentioned that before, and that was one of the things I myself thought when I saw the very marked cohesion that was in the collective bargaining, that is, that it was as if the cup was full now. Having said that, I also think it is important to point out that not all jobs in the public sector, and not even in the State sector, are going very badly. I think it is important to bring the nuances up here and to say that there are also very good jobs and very good public jobs out there. At the same time, this does not mean that I do not really want to focus on debureaucratisation and confidence building in the public sector. If the Liberal Alliance called me for a question debate on the Liberal Alliance, I would like to call the opposition on what we should do about this. I would say that some of what I am doing now is what I call a tour de liberation, because some of what I think is important in relation to the public sector is in fact both to free the municipalities, but also the state institutions, including, of course, the employees, to actually do what they are best at. As just one example, we ask them to register all kinds of unnecessary things, but give the municipalities, the state institutions the freedom to assess for themselves what their core task is, and let the employees, the public employees, use their professional skills where they are strongest, instead of the very, very powerful governance that is. Once again, having said that, it is also necessary here to nuance and say: Well there is not only central governance, because much of it is in fact also local; it is in the local municipal councils etc. that you decide to also abolish control all over the place. If we then look at the whole stress component, I would like to raise it a little too, because stress is a general problem throughout the Danish population, and that is why the alternative would always like to focus on three bottom lines: it is the economic bottom line, but not just the one, because it is also the social bottom line and the environmental bottom line. The social bottom line contains exactly how we all stick to this hamster wheel, and shouldn't we stop living in a hamster wheel, which is about producing more, earning more so that we can get more people into work, that is, the whole old economic thinking that it's the only sacrificing thing, instead of focusing on what it really is, the good life is. I fully agree that the stress problem exists in public workplaces, but it is true for virtue also in private jobs, and it exists in society in general. When the Familie- og Arbejdslivskommissionen came I think it was back in 2007 that there were 900,000 people who said that they couldn't make family life and work life stick together, and the stress association's figures from last year said that 35,000 Danes reported sick every day because of stress. If you look at how much it costs in the health budget in relation to stress-related diseases, we see that we are up in billions. So this is very extensive. Now I know that I may be going a little out of hand, but to get back to the public sector, I think that some of what we really need to address is debureaucraticisation, trust, and that is why I would also look forward to seeing what the government is doing in relation to their management reports this autumn. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524144532	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524144542	Thank you very much, President. The conditions for the public employees in both the state and the municipality have a huge impact on our everyday life and on the way Danish society operates, and it is the public employees who create the welfare that citizens experience in the face of our educators, our teachers, our healthcare professionals, our nursing homes, etc. That is why it is a deeply relevant theme; it is also a wide-ranging and difficult theme. As several of my predecessors and colleagues have already pointed out, it can be difficult to distinguish such traditional management and staff policy from the conditions that we, as legislators, provide to the public employees in terms of rules and codes to which they must comply, and of course also the resources that we decide to give to and for their operation. It is quite obvious, of course, when we follow the debate over the past few months, that there are more reasons why we need to do better for public employees than we have done in the past few years. As many have said, there is no doubt that many public employees feel that they are under pressure in their daily lives, that they find it difficult to carry out the work they want to do, to provide the service that we all want them to provide to citizens and that citizens expect. There is an increase in the number of stress sufferers. There are also escapes from some types of posts. There are quite major challenges. It's not like there's one explanation for that. There is no doubt that this is a combination of a lack of management in some places and a great responsibility for us and the municipal administrations to put too many constraints, too much bureaucracy, too much control and retail management instead of good management down on the public employees, and finally, of course, there is also the whole discussion of resource shortages and problems in getting the money and the hours going. And action needs to be taken in all areas, and we need to have a completely open-minded debate on this. In this context, I think it is important that we should not, like ourselves, be left to blame on individual institutions, governments or ministries; it is essentially a political responsibility for us to be in the situation we are facing today, and it is a political task to ensure that things improve. The second point I would like to make, which makes it relevant, is that we are in a completely new economic situation in today's Denmark. In the 1990s we fought with a huge problem of employment; we had far too many unemployed people and the reforms we carried out during that period were largely about getting people into employment. As far back as the 1980s we had a huge national debt and a deficit to be brought in. In the '00s we consumed, and here in the last four years of the SR government we fought to get back on track with less debt and deficits in public budgets. We've come a long way on that. We are now very close to having settled both government debt and public budget deficits. What is now before us is a new but fierce challenge: a shortage of people, a shortage of skilled labour, both in the public sector and in the private sector. And that is why it is perhaps also time to ask ourselves what we can do to keep the good employees we have and to ensure that they do not get sick in one way or another and make sure that they want to work longer in the public sector and provide that service. And that also means that we need to find new tools, because the main problem today is not to find the billions for example. to hire more educators. The main problem is that we lack 4,000 educators, and putting an increased target figure on it does not solve that problem. So, for that reason too, I think we need to discuss the whole issue with the public sector staff in this new perspective. So thank you for giving rise to this discussion. We are only just getting to the surface today, but it is important that we get to the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524145018	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. Then it is the Minister of Public Innovation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524145036	Thank you. I have not actually done that in advance, and in the inexorably clear light of hindsight, perhaps with good reason, because I actually tried in my initial answer to come up with a both factual and professional but also a thorough answer to what is the subject of the question today, at least on paper. For it has to be said, as several others have also remarked from the platform, that the debate has been about something close to anything other than what the question was raised against the background of: the state sector's personnel policy, the working environment, stress. But we've been a long way around • we've actually been around the whole public sector, I think. In relation to the initial motivation of the SF rapporteur, it is fine to include headlines, as the SF rapporteur is well aware that I have not written myself, at least I have never said that someone has been paid too much, or talked about pay party. On the contrary, I have said very clearly that employees should increase in wages. I do not think anyone would have imagined that we would have to leave the public collective bargaining without wage increases. On the other hand, I think that, in relation to the prügelknabe, as I have already said from the platform, the Modernisation Board has in many ways gone and become, and thus also the attack on the Modernisation Board and its employees, is in many ways remarkable, not least when you listen to where the attacks are coming from, because the majority of the opposition parties themselves have been involved in setting up the board. The demands brought into the collective bargaining process by the Modernisation Authority are not surprising. These are perfectly legitimate employers' demands, which must, on the one hand, support well-functioning jobs and, on the other hand, ensure that the state can provide better and more continuously for taxpayers' money. At the end of the day, I would be surprised if the Social Democrats and others thought that we, as a state, were suddenly not to act as responsible employers. The Modernisation Authority was established back in 2011 by the SRSF government and is currently assuming the role of the state employer, just as the Municipality of Landsforening and Danske Regions assume the role of employer in the municipalities and regions. There's nothing unorthodox about that. The employer's responsibility in the state has been the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance for decades. It can be said that it is in this way at the heart of the Danish model that agreements on wages and working conditions are concluded between an employer's party on the one hand and a worker's party on the other. And the thing about thinking that you can close down the Modernization Board and then think that in future there will be no government employer, I think that is simply a higher level of denial of reality. I also think there is a tendency for the Danish Parliament to attribute to the Modernisation Board, among certain parties, a much greater power and responsibility than it actually has. To give the Modernisation Authority such general responsibility for how the working environment in state workplaces looks, I think it might be stretching it this much as far as the authority's powers are concerned. I must also say that I think it is a pity that we should discuss the organisation of a governing body in this Chamber. If that was the intention of the SF, I think that this debate should have brought it out openly and honestly instead, as other rapporteurs have pointed out here, of wrapping it up with some other things and talking about something quite different. We must show confidence in the employees, there are a lot of people who say, in the next sentence, to start attacking the Modernisation Board and thus also the employees by saying that it must now be closed. I do not think that is fair or fine; as politicians, I really do not think we can be familiar with that, whatever we politically think. I am comfortable with the fact that every day there are in the vicinity of at least a bad day • 89 seats in the Danish Parliament, who are prepared to attack the government and government ministers and therefore also me, but I do not think it is appropriate for us to discuss the organisation of a governing body in this Chamber in this way. With regard to the confidence that the SF rapporteur also speaks a lot about, as the state's top employer representative, I can confirm that the 2013 teacher conflict under the previous government, of which the SF, Radical and Social Democracy were members, has so much influenced the collective negotiations that have taken place this year. I can also confirm that, by the way, collective bargaining in the field of state affairs in 2015, also under the former government, made such a mark on the negotiations. I can't magic away from that past. It is undoubtedly also the case that, although the predecessors are of a different color, they are in a different composition of government than the one of which you are a member as a minister, then you acknowledge inheritance and debt. And it is clear that I think everyone has been able to see that collective bargaining has been an extraordinarily difficult and very long process. However, we must also say that in the end the parties succeeded in agreeing on a result without the conciliation officer having to present a conciliation sketch. The parties, employers and employees throughout the public sector, themselves, found out with each other, and this at least proves that at some point they had great discussions about the functioning of the Danish model and its death, at least they were greatly exaggerated. I do not wish to deny that there may be a need for adjustments, but I think it is important to look back at the success of this by finding a solution between the parties themselves. Now I think it is about looking forward together, also as parties. We now have a 3-year period to implement the very many good collective agreements that we have agreed on, and also to strengthen our cooperation as contracting parties. We have a very large and important joint responsibility for this, and it is also a responsibility for which we, on the part of the state employers, will make our commitment. It's a mutual shared responsibility... a responsibility where none of us can magicate the past away, but where we can at least look into a future and our opportunities to influence it. And right now I am actively following the sidelines, since we can see that there is at least something that is likely to be a very, very high percentage of votes among the members of the trade union organisations in the vote on the outcome of the collective agreement. I think that is positive and I hope, of course, that it will be a yes all around. Then, in my initial answer, I have mentioned the many different important elements, I think, that we have agreed with each other, both in terms of strengthening the working environment and in terms of reducing stress, which I will not repeat in my final answer. That is what I had thought was set aside for the debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber today, and thus that we should discuss the state sector. We didn't quite stick to that. It was shown a trip all around the public sector. And it is also quite natural that in the Folketing there is a great deal of discussion about the whole governance and organisation of the public sector, but I think that as a questioner one should tone pure flag, in relation to what it is to be desired for a debate, when raising an inquiry debate in the Folketing, that is to say in relation to which themes one wishes to discuss from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524150039	There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524150044	I would just like to thank the Minister for bringing us all the way round to collective bargaining, the dismantling of the Modernisation Board, which, as it were, nobody has mentioned in this debate. It is true that the SF has mentioned this earlier, but not in this debate. There I just wonder whether the Minister will try to deal with some of the things that have been brought up along the way. I think the Minister himself said that the Modernisation Authority has become a prick, and that is worrying. If confidence in the Modernisation Authority is not intact, then it will have consequences for the opportunities we have to exercise good staff policy without discussing where the responsibility is located. And that is what the proposal for adoption here will be about, in other words, that there have been a number of statements which have contributed to an increase in the distrust of public servants. Does the Minister not recognize that it is the case that public servants are simply sometimes in doubt as to what the purpose of what is going on is whether it is agreements or whether it is all sorts of other things?
ParlaMint-DK_20180524150154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524150155	I can certainly see that I have read the SF's proposals for adoption when they raised the question, which surprisingly sounded to me as an invitation to the Prime Minister to reorganise and thus close the Modernisation Board. I have also heard several politicians talk about it. That is just what I am saying; I do not know whether it is in itself encouraging when you talk about trust in the public employees, but that it is apparently except for the employees of the Modernisation Board. I think we should trust them too. As I mentioned before, I live well with the fact that every day there are members of the Parliament and on a bad day 89 that would like to attack the government and its ministers. But I also think that we all have a joint responsibility to consider what kind of discussions we are bringing in and whether, as a legislative power here in the Assembly, we also think that it is our job in this way to take an active stand on the organisation of government, departments, and what I know.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524150301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524150302	Thank you. I think the Minister completely ignores the example. We say here that it is the political administration that we want to discuss. Does the Minister not recognise that trust is a fundamental prerequisite for ensuring a good working environment in the future? Isn't trust the key word when it comes to employee satisfaction? Hasn't trust been the key word in this whole debate along the way? I think the Minister is running away with some strawmen in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524150344	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524150345	In my final reply, I confirmed that confidence has so much influenced the process of collective bargaining. And that confidence has been so challenged by what went ahead in 2013 with a teacher conflict, where I point out in silence that the SF itself was a member of the government with the Social Democracy and Radical Left. And it is a trust that was also challenged by the collective bargaining that was held in 2015, also under a previous government. As a minister, I have not been able to wipe that away, but I have been able to see that that confidence has been so challenged. I stress now that we, as parties, have a 3-year course to implement the many good results we have agreed on, but also to get the cooperation back on track. It deserves it, and it deserves, above all, the many talented government employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524150440	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for brief comments to the Minister, and then it is the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, to conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524150451	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. I also think myself I think it was the Alternative who used the hamster wheel example versus the good working life that it pays off, that you rely on a good working environment and some good working conditions. I believe in that basically, but I also think it is necessary to take the trouble sometimes to be a little honest about what things are about. I can hear that the Radical rapporteur admits that political responsibility is all ours and that changing governments have been an element in creating the relationship of trust or lack of confidence which perhaps in reality was the hallmark of the collective bargaining that has just been concluded. I have no doubt that the teacher conflict in 2013 has played a role in relation to collective bargaining in 2018, but I also have no doubt that a process of terminating the state employees' customary agreements on meal breaks and other things has also played a role in terms of confidence. Trust is also about us making demands on each other, because of course you as an employer must make demands on the employees and have some desires for what it is that you would like things to evolve, but vice versa you will also remember to recognise the employees for the good work that is being done, and not only as something we say on festive occasions, but also as something we actually manage to do by listening to the needs that arise and actually honouring them along the way. I still think that there is some way to getting this confidence agenda on the table and that it will not just be a paper discussion, but that it will actually be a real discussion, because I believe that trust is very crucial to a really good working environment. In fact, I think most of us can bear to be busy when we also have an experience that we have management support and that, moreover, we are recognised for it. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524150712	We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday 29 May 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180524150724	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 25 May, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
