ParlaMint-DK_20180426100019	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 231 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Minister for Public Innovation (Sophie Løh): Bill no. L 232 (Proposal for a law amending the Act on active employment, the Law on Social Services, the Law on the Integration of Foreigners in Denmark and various other laws. Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 233 (Proposal for a Law amending the Health Act and the Law on access to health care. Christian Rabjerg Madsen (S), Kim Christiansen (DF), Henning Hyllested (EL) and Karsten Hønge (SF): Bill no. L 234 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Carriage of Goods by Road. Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 142 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on greater consideration of the well-being of children at asylum centres). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Business (Brian Mikkelsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written regional and rural policy statement. R 13). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on 18 May 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100215	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100255	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100319	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 101 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100347	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100404	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. in favour of 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100439	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100502	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 16 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100531	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100558	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 21 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 29 (S). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100630	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100649	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of voting 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 13 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100722	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100745	Well, thank you so much. I have asked for the floor because we from the Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left and the Alternative have tabled two amendments to this bill which I think you should take and vote in favour of. It's really important that we secure our infrastructure against cyberattacks, but we're setting up a structure where the huge problem right now is that the Center for Cybersecurity, which is responsible for this work, is under Defense Intelligence. This simply means that there will be too much secrecy about this very important work, and it also means that the very important data protection rules that are being adopted do not actually apply to the work of the centre either. We would very much like to correct that, so that we have a proper structure for how we work on cybersecurity in the future. That is why we have proposed that the Cyber Security Centre should not lie under the Defence Intelligence Service, but that we should do just as many of our neighbouring countries, for example. The Netherlands, Norway, France and Sweden, namely make it civil authorities. I hope you will vote in favour of this. The second is that, with regard to all the activities that are being entrusted to the centre now, on both transport and health care, what we are also going to vote on later on is actually the starting point that those activities must, of course, be covered in a sensible way by the data security legislation. So this is an invitation to vote in favour of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100919	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426100924	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2, by a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 21 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) abstained from voting 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 7, tabled by the same minority as rejected. It has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4, by a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 21 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) abstained from voting 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 3, 5 and 6, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101104	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101126	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: One... we're not done voting, and it needs to be quiet. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, RV, KF and IA)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101249	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101308	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101324	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101359	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101422	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101439	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101504	Thank you, and thank you to the SF for submitting Bill L 188. SF wishes to change the date on which the law on municipal special offers of primary education for certain foreign children and young people is repealed. The SF justifies the proposal that the number of asylum seekers has been significantly reduced from 2015 to today and, as a consequence, there are far fewer foreign children going to school in Denmark. SF therefore considers that it is obvious to bring forward the sunset clause of the Act from 31 July 2021 to 31 July 2019. The SF also explains the proposal that, from the beginning of the examination of the draft law, the party has been opposed to it, inter alia: because there are no requirements in the law for teacher qualifications and the classes may span five school years. SF therefore considers that the law does not take into account how complicated it is to create good reception classes for children from among others. areas in difficulty. The government cannot support the proposal. The Act was adopted in 2016 as a follow-up to the then government's two-party agreement with KL on a number of initiatives in the field of integration. All the initiatives were to ensure that the municipalities were given the necessary flexibility in the framework of their integration efforts. With the law, municipalities were given the freedom to set up special offers of primary education for bilingual children and young people in local government outside the framework of the primary school law. Depending on the municipal decision, the offer may replace or supplement the primary school's education in receiving classes. The law does not change the fact that all pupils are entitled to an education that meets their requirements and needs. The degree of freedom granted to the municipal council does not alter the fact that the education must measure up to what is generally required in the primary school. The government feels obliged by the agreement with KL and therefore does not wish to change the law at this time. On the contrary, the government believes that it is positive that the municipal council has the freedom to design the counter bid best suited to local priorities, wishes and needs. I should also like to point out that the Law on municipal special offers of primary education for certain foreign children and young people states that the law is to be evaluated in 2019. The result of the evaluation I expect to be sent to the Danish Parliament's Education Committee at the end of 2019. Out of respect for the municipalities that use the law, the government considers it most fair to await the outcome of the evaluation. The government cannot therefore support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101743	There's a comment from Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101755	Thank you. The main reason why we are opposed to this proposal is, in fact, that we believe it is damaging integration. I think that when you put 18 children into a reception class instead of 12 children, there will be worse conditions for the teacher to get around to all the children. And if you do what has also been made possible by the law, namely that special offers can be made without the use of teaching skills, without the requirement of a class ceiling and without any connection to a primary school, I do not think that we will have the children that we would so much like into Danish society. This is usually a common interest. When the law was passed, the current Minister for Education said that LA's position on the bill was to vote yes, and I quote: 'It is without the great joy and enthusiasm that we do so. This is a pragmatic approach to an extremely big challenge, which means that we support the government's proposals. Has anything changed since the rapporteur, who is now a minister, stood on the platform and said that it was only because of a pragmatic approach to a major challenge? Now do you think the law is a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101901	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101902	Of course, there is a difference between being inside and outside a government. Of course. However, what the rapporteur quotes is quite historically correct, and I always credit rapporteurs who quote me correctly. It is a great pleasure and pleasure because it qualifies our debate here in the Assembly. After all, the law contains a sunset clause, and I think that is very sensible, and I think that, in general, we need to have that more often, especially in the area of integration. It should not be the case that we are dragging around laws that are no longer relevant. That's why it's good that there's both an evaluation and a sunset clause built into this law. Then we can evaluate and assess in the government and parliament whether we want to continue the legislation that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101947	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426101948	But does the Minister acknowledge that the challenge that Denmark faced in 2015 • I am on to the fact that there is still a refugee crisis in Europe and which was the reason why the minister's party joined this legislation, is no longer here to the same extent? And could the Minister at least consider launching that evaluation more quickly than is provided for in that agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102012	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102013	It is clear that the number of asylum seekers has fallen, and that is good, because that was all too much in 2015. I am in favour of strict foreign policy, because we must be able to integrate the people who come to Denmark. I think, as I said, that the law that is in place is sensible, because it needs to be evaluated and because there is a sunset clause in it, while at the moment there is some flexibility for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102043	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102048	Thank you. After all, the government has ongoing ghetto negotiations with a large number of parties in a wide range of areas and in various ministries. There it is, among other things. on integration, it is about language, especially the Danish language. The question then is whether it would not be obvious to include the draft law's material, L 188, in the discussions so that we might be able to tighten up the law a little, as the SF is actually proposing. Why hasn't the government done that? Wouldn't that be obvious?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102121	We cannot quote from the parliamentary platform from the negotiations, but fortunately we are very far off in the negotiations which are about solving problems in parallel societies. This bill comes from a two-party agreement from the previous government, which was about dealing with a specific problem in 2015, where there were a lot of asylum seekers. The opportunities offered to the municipalities at that time are being used by some municipalities. I think it would be fair to evaluate the way it works before you come to the sunset clause, which has also been incorporated into the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102201	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102202	I did not quote from the negotiations either. I am actually asking whether it could not be brought into these negotiations, given that it is so obvious, because it is going to take place, among other things. about good integration, and it is about the refugee children getting a good Danish. We know that the reception classes are better at it than with the current system, where it is voluntary for the municipalities to do so. It's been a saving exercise on the KL's side. So wouldn't it be obvious to take it with you? That's really just what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102229	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102230	It was actually more of a comment to myself, i.e. not commenting on the negotiations. We chose not to take it with us. We have chosen to focus on some other things, among others. a language test, and there we are very pleased that the Danish People's Party in particular has taken it down positively that we must now have a situation where far fewer children have to start school without having a functional Danish. This is one of the impressions we have put in the parallel society package, which I believe will be extremely important in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102304	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102304-2	Thank you. But the reason I am taking the floor is that I really want to ask about the integration part. Because I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister does not agree that the intention is for us to integrate these children as soon as possible and that there is much to argue that entering a normal primary school class is the best way to integrate these children so that they can meet Danish children.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102334	If you obtain asylum in Denmark, it is of course very important that you are quickly integrated into Denmark. However, if you apply for asylum, it is of course important that you have a good family life and a good child life until there is a clarification of the family situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102357	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102358	Of course, I fully agree with that. It is important to have a good child's life. That is what matters, I think. I just think that when we see some of these cases, we can see that they can also pull out, and it is uncertain whether or not the family gets asylum. And no matter what, does the Minister not think that the child will acquire some other skills by coming to a Danish primary school and just meeting Danish society very close? And then if they get rejected, they can take those skills back to where they come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102437	I am not quite sure what exactly the rapporteur is asking. However, as it is now, municipalities can choose to organise their work in different ways. They can choose to have receive classes, they can choose to integrate the students directly into the classes. There is that flexibility, and it is a local assessment, but at the same time we must ensure that we meet the children where they are and that the teaching meets their needs and conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102507	Thank you. Then there is no more for the Minister at the moment, and we are going to start with the rapporteur's line. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102523	Thank you to the SF for raising the debate on the bill, which means that the municipalities will have the opportunity to establish a special offer of primary education for bilingual children and young people as an alternative to primary education in the reception classes. We cannot support the proposal for an amendment. On the one hand, it was the Social Democratic Party that helped bring a sunset clause into this bill, and on the other hand it is an agreement with the KL, and of course we stand by the agreements we make. Then it is also a question of controlling the influx to Denmark in the long term. It is true when the SF says that there are not very many asylum seekers right now, but I think we all agree that this situation can change quite suddenly. That is why we are going to vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102608	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102612	When the Social Democratic Party stood on the platform when this law was adopted, Mrs Annette Lind said that this is a temporary situation and the law must reflect that it is a temporary situation and we accept that it is an exceptional situation. In other words, the rapporteur put a great deal of emphasis on the fact that the rapporteur was not particularly fond of the draft law, but that it was included because it was an extraordinary situation. Does the rapporteur agree that this is no longer an exceptional situation? In addition, does the rapporteur agree that refugee children are better placed to be integrated if they are in receiving classes with 12 pupils than with 18 pupils, and that they have better opportunities to be integrated into the Danish primary school than in some special offer without any requirement for teaching skills?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102710	Clearly, yes to the end, that is, that it is better for the students. It's also a temporary situation. We're still stuck on that and that's why the agreement expires in 2021. In relation to whether there is no longer any extraordinary situation, I think if you look at what is going on in the Middle East by war and by population explosion, unfortunately, this is not the last time that we can feel pressure on the Danish borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102733	Here you go, sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102734	I am in favour of it being in operation in the Middle East and of the risk of putting pressure on Europe again. But right now it is not there, and then I think, as SFs, that we have a responsibility to ensure that the refugee children who are here are integrated in the best possible way, and when there is no extraordinary number of refugee children, it does not make sense to exclude them from special offers or put them into very, very large classes, because then it is just a saving exercise. So why not make the arrangement that, when it is not an extraordinary situation, it is said that this is no longer possible; it should only apply if you have a high number? Could the Social Democratic Party be involved in launching an evaluation of this before it had actually been thought about it, now that we can see that the number of asylum seekers has fallen so sharply?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102815-2	First, I think, as I said, that the situation can change very quickly, and when we enter into an agreement with the KL, I also believe that we have to stand by it. SF was also opposed when it was dealt with two years ago. So that's why we stand by it. After all, many of our mayors are going to integrate these people who come to Denmark and who have themselves wanted this agreement. And I still think you have to talk about a temporary nature when it expires in 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102838	Thank you to the rapporteur, and then it is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426102902	Thank you to the Socialist People's Party for submitting this bill. I can say straight away that the Danish People's Party is positive and that we will vote in favour of the bill. This may not come as a surprise, because we voted against the original legislative proposal, and we did so for the simple reason that reception classes are a good thing. Especially when so many people come to the country with children, we must ensure that they can be Danish and that they are integrated before they go to school and into classes, and it is both for the sake of the refugee children themselves, but indeed also for the many Danish school pupils who are in the classes. Because if there are too many people who do not know Danish properly, then they get worse education at school. They suffer, and that is why the austerity proposal that KL pushed through to the government is a bad thing, and I do not quite understand why Social Democracy has agreed to it. Nor do I understand that this has undermined the original reception class model, so that you can actually have up to 18 pupils in the same class. Instead, we now have the opportunity to sluice a lot of children directly into schools, but of course with support and education and all that is needed, but it is a deterioration both for the individual student who comes from outside, and especially for the Danish school pupils, who will then have less time to get good education. After all, we know that teachers are already suffering from inclusion problems, a longer school period, a great reform that is not yet in place, and then they also have to deal with children who cannot do anything Danish when they get there. It is a great mouthful and I do not understand why the government and the Social Democrats are still supporting this bill. The only good thing about the bill was that there was a sunset clause in 2021, and it is quite reasonable for SF to propose that we place it in 2019 instead. I can also welcome the fact that the SF recognises that there are fewer refugees and immigrants coming to Denmark now, among others. Thanks to the Danish People's Party, and it's a great pleasure that SF uses it as a lever to get rid of this law. Because that's a bad law. We also know that there are a number of municipalities which continue with reception classes with good results, and these are municipalities which, among other things, are: can see that they're getting good grades out of it. For example: Nyborg continues with the reception classes, and their primary schools are well graded, so there is also a connection. Then I can't believe the government hasn't brought this into the ghetto negotiations. Because in many ways, there is a parallel between what the government wants and what is happening in the school sector in connection with this bill. So wholehearted support from the Danish People's Party for the bill, and I had actually wished that I had proposed it myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103219	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103229	Thank you for that, and thank you to the SF for bringing forward this bill so that we can have the debate in this Chamber today. Unfortunately, I must start by saying that the Left will not support the bill. We know that the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark has been reduced and, fortunately, significantly reduced, but that does not mean that we are now going to change the year of the bill, which we have just adopted on the basis of a two-party agreement with the National Association of Municipalities. In fact, I think that, as a large party, we also have a responsibility to stick to some of the agreements that have been concluded, because where do we end up if, more or less the next day, they run the risk of breaking an agreement that has been concluded with the National Association of Municipalities? In addition to that, it is also true that lots of municipalities out there are precisely conforming to the agreements that we are making, and that means, with the freedom that also lies in this law itself, that many municipalities have adapted and adapted to it. From that point of view, I simply think that it would be wrong for the municipalities to amend the agreement that we have reached. In addition, the law is already being evaluated in 2019, and it is actually very soon. I think it's actually obvious that you take the discussion and find out what you're going to do. In short, however, I can say that the Left will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103419	Sir. Jacob Mark, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103422	Thank you. In the proposal we are not proposing to roll it back from next school year, but from the school year after again, so the municipalities actually have plenty of time to adapt to this bill. I would just like to hear the rapporteur: does the rapporteur agree that children have better opportunities to be integrated and learn Danish languages in classes of 12 pupils than in classes of 18 pupils? Because what this law has meant is that you can make larger classes. And does the rapporteur agree that children coming from other countries are, as a rule, better placed to be integrated into primary school classes where teachers teach you than in special offers without a maximum? class ceiling and without requirements for teachers on teacher competence? What, like the best prerequisites for integrating and learning the Danish language?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103519	I would like to start by saying that there is no doubt that there are many recipient classes around the country that work super well and optimally. But I also have to say that children are different, that the municipalities are different and that, for that matter, the primary schools are different. I have visited primary schools which have actually welcomed the law here and where there may be quite a few pupils with a different ethnic background and where they have chosen to integrate them directly into the classes. They report this positively because they say they can handle it. Perhaps these are two pupils who have come to this country and who, in a smaller society, might actually be more quickly integrated there than if they start in a recipient class, even if, for that matter, there were 12 children in it. So I think it is very, very different, and that is why I think it is not just possible to say that everyone should do it the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103622	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103623	I think it is also very different. In many places this law has not been adopted because it can be seen that it will damage integration. In some places, for economic reasons, we have chosen to say that we want to, and then there are some places where they have been incorporated directly into the classes. I think that can be a good thing if you have thought about what you are doing. When Mrs Anni Matthiesen stood on the platform when we discussed the bill, Mrs Anni Matthiesen said that the bill should be seen in the light of the extraordinary situation, and now Mrs Anni Matthiesen is talking about the law being applied in different places. Now that there is no longer an extraordinary situation, could there not be any reason to speed up that evaluation so that we could learn more about local authorities' practices and see if we should correct the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103708	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103709	I have to say that I feel that I have a great deal of confidence in the municipalities. I know that there may be times when we need to tighten the screw in here to get the municipalities to comply with the legislation we have decided, but I am sure that every place is based on how to handle this task best, also in order to ensure good integration. Then I have to say that one can always discuss when one has an extraordinary situation and when that situation will then be gone. I fully support the fact that we still have an obligation to ensure that we do not get increased pressure on the border and, as a former rapporteur has said, there is still unrest around the world. So I think we should keep the law as it is right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103800	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103802	Receiving classes do not only deal with language learning. They also deal with a large number of other things, such as: that the children of refugees have a violent suitcase with them, and it is a suitcase containing traumatic experiences, assaults, war, violence and parents who have been killed, family members who have been tortured. All such things are also dealt with in a reception class, but with the law as it is today, it can often be a teacher or a school or a comrade who suddenly has to deal with these things, because the government, together with the Social Democracy and the KL, has ensured that you can lock the students directly into the primary school, of course with some support. Does the rapporteur really think that it is right for schools, pupils and teachers to deal with these problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103904	No, in fact I do not think it is right that teachers should be responsible for these tasks, but at the same time I must say that I actually respect the fact that very shortly ago we reached an agreement with the KL on this, and I also respect the fact that these tasks are actually carried out in the municipalities in the best way possible. I am sure that if you get a student who has various traumas with him, there will also be a teacher or head of school who will get some psychological help if needed. So I really have confidence in the municipalities, and I think that we also have an obligation here from Christiansborg to recognise that it is also done in the best way around the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103956	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426103958	Of course, the municipalities and schools and teachers do it in the best way, because they are duty-ful people, but we are not doing it in the best way, because we do not have the reception class model as the only model that is a good model because we take care of the pupils. I am glad that the rapporteur says that it is not fair, but at the same time we say that we respect an agreement, but we can just change that agreement and then we can vote in favour of the SF's legislative proposal in this Chamber. If you don't think it's fair, why don't you vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426104030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426104032	Because I still think there are places where you might want to solve it in a better way than that everyone should be in a reception class. I have been visiting schools which may have very, very few pupils of other ethnic origin who have come here and where they can simply see that here there is a boy who will actually be able to be integrated more quickly by being allowed to enter the class directly. I assume that the teachers and, for that matter, psychologists, etc., who may also be associated with those schools, are best placed to assess what is best for the individual children, and I really like the fact that we have the freedom to do so, including around the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426104119	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426104128	In the spring of 2016, when we discussed the bill to introduce this special law specifically aimed at refugee children, we were vertically opposed to the proposal in the Enhedslisten. We saw it as discriminatory because other conditions were given to this group of children. We considered this to be extremely damaging to integration and, overall, we thought that it was an unfair deterioration in the school provision we offer to children of refugees. In concrete terms, the draft law involved no need to repeat it all, among other things. this possibility of increasing the class ratios or the class ceiling by 50 per cent. I also think it should be noted that it meant something strange that these school offers were exempted from the qualification requirements for teachers, i.e. that teachers who had a perhaps particularly complex task did not necessarily have to be trained teachers. So the short story is, and I think there were many fundamental and concrete reasons for saying no to the proposal, and it must be said here a few years later that it was somewhat marked by an hasty and somewhat panic reaction to the fact that a very significant number of refugee children arrived in Denmark for a short period of time. I fully agree with Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen in his observations that there was one good thing about the bill, namely that there was a sunset clause so that we could have it settled again. I would say that I also saw there being agreement on a sunset clause as a recognition that we actually offered a lower school offer to the refugee children than what we had with the previous legislation. Why else make a sunset clause if you thought this was a much better offer? In the view of the Enhedslisten, the law should never have been passed, and we really think that the SF is now putting forward the proposal and thank you for it should provoke a reflection among the members of the Danish Parliament who voted in favour of the proposal, a reflection on whether or not it was premature anyway. And you could have ~ I didn't agree with the good intention if you had to see it such that we have to do something because we are in an extraordinary situation, we have to do something that is different in order to create room for there to be a school offer. But when it turned out that that assessment was not accurate and the need is not there, I simply do not understand why, with the devil's violence and power, the devil will insist that we keep a school offer for refugee children who are inferior; where there are no requirements for class teachers and where there can be substantially more children entering the classes. So I had hoped that the majority would change with the excellent proposal that the SF has put forward. The unitary list may support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426104448	Thank you. There are no comments. Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426104457	Thank you. The bill we are discussing here is that SF wants to change the date when the law on the municipalities' special offer of primary education for certain foreign children and young people is repealed. The Act was adopted in 2016 as a follow-up to the Government's two-party agreement with the National Association of Municipalities on various initiatives in the field of integration. Here the municipalities were given the opportunity, outside the framework of the primary school law, to create special offers of primary education for bilingual children and young people. In the Liberal Alliance, we respect the agreement with KL and do not want to run away from it. Instead, in the Liberal Alliance, we welcome the fact that each municipal council has actually been given the freedom to design exactly the offer that suits the local wishes of the individual municipality. We are confident that this can be assessed locally, which is why we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426104558	Thank you. There are no comments. Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426104617	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the SF for presenting this bill, which is after all about Bill 190, draft law on municipal special offers of primary education for certain foreign children. As several other rapporteurs have said, this was adopted by a majority of the Folketing and was expressed on the basis of a strong concern in the government over the number of asylum seekers in 2015. It was feared that a high number of asylum seekers would be a challenge for the municipalities, and in the field of education it was therefore decided to say that special measures could be taken for these asylum-seekers. These special offers do not, of course, meet the requirements normally laid down for the teaching of the receiving classes. In our view, it was already difficult to see where this better framework existed at the time of the legislative proposal. We did not think that this was a better framework for the refugee children, and the majority of the organisations that sat and dealt with the bill at the time also provided consultation answers that were highly critical of and concerned about that bill. That is why, of course, we are very pleased with the bill that the SF has put forward, which is about repealing the law earlier than what has been proposed, namely in 2019 instead of 2020-21. We believe that the law that exists should never have been passed, because of course refugee children who come to this country must immediately go out among Danish children and receive the same quality education as Danish children. Then, if we look at the recent figures of people coming to the country, we think that there is absolutely no justification whatsoever for maintaining that law. So there is full support for SF's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426104821	Thank you. There are no comments. There is no rapporteur for the Radical Left, so we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426104843	Thank you. The proposal here from the SF is to amend the date on which the law on municipal special offers of primary education for certain foreign children and young people is to be repealed. With the proposal, the SF wishes to advance the date 2 years. The Act was adopted in 2016 as a follow-up to the Government's two-party agreement with KL on a number of integration initiatives. With the law, municipalities were given the freedom to create special offers of primary education for bilingual children and young people outside the framework of the primary school law. In the Conservative People's Party, we think it is positive that the municipal councils have the freedom to design the counter bid best suited to individual local needs, priorities and wishes. I myself sit in a municipal council and in my municipality we have been happy to have the opportunity to create the offer that now suits us, and I think many other municipalities are happy about that too. And it has worked quite well; we have set up reception classes. In connection with the adoption of the 2016 bill, it was agreed that the law should be evaluated in 2019, and in respect of the municipalities that use the law, we would like to await the evaluation in 2019. At the same time, we have also made an agreement with KL, which we in the Conservative People's Party want to respect and not change here in the middle of the period. So the Conservative People's Party cannot support the SF proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426105028	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark has a brief comment to make. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426105028-2	Thank you. Now I know that Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel is a council member, so I thought: I wonder how it has been organized in that municipality. I can hear that the rapporteur believes that the municipalities should be given a great deal of freedom. So I really want to hear: should there be any guidelines at all on how to shape such a reception class offer, or should it just be completely free from the municipalities how they will shape it? That is my first question. The second question is: since the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mr. Anders Johansson, standing in the chair when the bill was adopted, said the rapporteur was very pleased that it had to be evaluated after 2-3 years. Can the rapporteur say a little about what the Conservative People's Party envisages doing when that evaluation has been carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426105124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426105125	I will come back to that when the evaluation is done. For good reason, I can't answer you now what we imagine will happen when the evaluation is done. We have to get back to that when we have it. Of course, in terms of its design, I think it is important that there is a certain quality and that there are some people who are able to take on this particular task, it is to receive bilingual children. It's whether you make a reception class or lock them into classes. It is, of course, important to be prepared for this task.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426105210	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426105211	That's really exactly the problem with this law. There is no guarantee that people are equipped for the task. With this law, you do something you've never done before when you're running a school. It is said that some adults with no specific qualifications can be allowed to teach an unknown number of children in these special offers. That is precisely the problem, because it is not said that they should have specific qualifications. I don't want them to be able to do anything special. So with what the rapporteur has just said, does the rapporteur not think that this is precisely a problem with that law?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426105244	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426105244-2	I feel that I have great confidence in the municipalities and in the fact that the tasks which the municipalities have and which they have to carry out, they can find a way of lifting and that they can manage how to employ employees and use the employees they have for the tasks that they are now going to have solved. I have to say, I have great faith in that. I also know as a municipal councillor how this works.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426105316	Thanks to the rapporteur, there will be no further brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426105331	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the treatment and, in particular, thank you to the Enhedslisten, Alternativet, the Radical Left which could not be here, but which also backs the roll-back of legislation and to the Danish People's Party for a very good and proper speech if you ask a SF's. For approx. 4 years ago no, 5 years ago it must be today I was employed at the Hastrupskolen in Køge. The Hastrup School is responsible for the reception classes, i.e.: the classes of all children who come to the municipality are granted a residence permit and must be integrated. It was a very fun experience being in such a reception class. I came in as such a support function for the teacher who was in there, and I came into this room where there were 12 students in the vicinity. And it was then with a three - grade age span, for then you only had to have a three - grade age span. And in that class there was a Brazilian; two from Poland; three from Syria, who could neither a word of their own language in writing nor of English or Danish; a Turkish boy who could say nothing but computer because he wanted to play on computer; two from Greenland, who didn't say a word, no matter what we did, we couldn't get them to talk; and two from Romania. That's when I thought, "Oh, my God, this is quite a job!" It is educational differentiation when you really have to run it to the maximum. to be able to teach both targeted children who have fled war in Syria, targeted children who come from Europe with parents who are actually well-functioning and come up here to work, and targeted children who come from Greenland and who do not feel at all comfortable in Denmark and then just don't have very much time. But I thought, we're gonna take that on. And what was amazing about being in these reception classes was that you could see how fast the kids evolved. In this way it was often more fun to be in the reception classes than elsewhere, because they learned the language quickly because they were obscene and there was some time for them. And after a short time, they started trying to get these kids into general classes. I also succeeded, and many of the children I meet when I'm back in Køge today at the election campaign, or whatever else I do down there. And then they come and speak fluently Danish. That's why I thought, what's going on when I read L 190, [the collection of people 2015-16], which they had done with the municipalities, and which many mayors were then out to warn against. I think we did a study in which the result was that nine out of ten mayors who were asked actually warned not to use those tools, because how will it ever benefit these children, whom we want to get more quickly into Danish society, learn about the Danish values and teach the Danish language that they say: It's okay, dear local authorities, there is also the financial pressure if you just raise the class quotient from 12 to 18, that's okay? How could they ever be integrated? At least they were still in a primary school, but how would they ever be integrated if they were simply moved into an extraordinary offer with half-studded strategists like me, who did not have teachers' qualifications, and without the requirement of how many would be in the classes? How would it ever benefit these children? So I really thought back then that what we wanted, namely to ensure better integration, would never happen with that proposal. We had a long debate on this in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I was a little comforted at the time, because all the rapporteurs said as one that it was due to an extraordinary situation. It was the present Minister of Education who was the rapporteur at the time who said it; it was the Social Democrats who said it; it was the Left who said it; yes, even the Conservatives said it. Then that law has haunted me a bit, because I think it is a mess, and I am really convinced that putting more children into classes does not promote integration. And then I thought: Now that the government is so proud that we have the lowest number of asylum seekers in 9 years and when the goal of the government is to get fewer asylum seekers to Denmark, it is allowed to be proud • nor can the argument that it should be an extraordinary situation, which all the rapporteurs used in 2016, when the law was passed. This is no longer an extraordinary situation and thus the argument for the whole of the legislation falls unless you think that the law is a good idea. There I would just like to recapitulate some of the arguments against the bill at the time: there were important issues, and that is something we are now discussing in this Chamber often, in relation to both the constitution and the conventions. Because under the Constitution one has the right to education in the Danish primary school, but one does not, of course, if one is placed out in a special educational offer and the parents have no right to say: My child must go to primary school. Then you no longer have the right to education in the Danish primary school, even if you are in Denmark and have a residence permit. That is also why a number of lawyers then said that it raises important questions in relation to the constitution. It might also be questioned whether the question raised in relation to Article 22 of the Convention on Refugees, which states that, in the case of elementary education, the Member States must provide refugees with the same treatment as that of their own nationals. I do not think you do that here either, if you just say: we can park these children in a special educational facility. However, if we are to look away from law where it often becomes such a very instrumental debate, I would just say that this is legislation that means that fewer children learn Danish more quickly. There'll be less focus on these kids out in the reception room if there's 18 instead of 12. It will be harder to reach both the Greenlandic boy, the Syrian girl, the Brazilian girl and the Polish boy if you are to accommodate these 18 children, who then no longer come from only three ages, but from five different ages. It will simply be more difficult to integrate them. So for all this talk we have about good integration, I just want to say that I believe that the legislative proposal that was adopted, L 190 [People's Assembly 2015-16], has damaged the possibilities of good integration. I will look forward to the evaluation coming, and I will also try to say in committee that instead of this proposal we could at least speed up this evaluation so that we can see what it has actually had to do with consequences. I hope that the rapporteurs will be able to support this. And hope is bright green.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426105959	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110002	Thank you. Hope is bright green, I agree with the rapporteur. I would like to try to sort out what the SF really wants. For I have some doubts as to whether this is the quality of the offer that the SF wants to make sure or whether it is really that everyone should have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110032	I'd like to ensure quality. When I was a Councillor, every year, when we had to save money, we had such a budget catalogue, and every year it said that the reception classes were an obvious place to save. And that is why I have no doubt for a second that when this legislation allows municipalities to raise the class ratio from 12 to 18, it is a potential saving option and it will be used around, and the children will suffer. In addition, I think it is quite wrong to say that we park children in special educational facilities away from primary schools. I believe that this reduces the quality of the offer that we can make to children. I would like to be involved in legislation which was based on the fact that children should be in reception classes and decommissioned, but if the municipalities, for example, were to be involved. As Mrs Anni Matthiesen said, only one or two children would be able to enter the class directly if there were special arrangements for the child. I'd think that was fine, because then it's still good quality. So that's what I'm preoccupied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110125	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110127	Well, I am actually pleased to hear that the rapporteur for the SF will actually be able to discuss it in this way, and we can then continue to do so when we have to evaluate the law in 2019. I fully agree that we must, of course, ensure that there is quality, including for those children who cannot or should not start in a reception class, because it is considered locally that it would actually be better for those children to start directly in a normal class. But then I also think that we are talking about something quite different, because then you still have away from freedom, but you focus on the fact that what you offer the children in general needs to be given a high weight. And it's an idea I'd like to confirm, that it's not to put an end to the possibility of other offers that SF makes this bill, but that it's actually to look at the quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110219	I think that if you are a good municipality that wants to integrate refugee children properly, you choose either to put them in a reception class with a low number of children in the class and then with good opportunities for integration, or to choose the model that I have been a little sceptical about, but which I have seen used in a proper way, saying that they are going straight to school, provided that there are special measures for the children, especially help, otherwise both the refugee child, but also the classmates, who suddenly experience that there is a great deal of time spent on that child, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110251	Thank you. No one has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110309	The debate is open. Minister of Education, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110336	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for tabling motion for a resolution B 96. This gives us the opportunity to discuss the content and quality of a small but very important part of our education offer, namely the specially organised youth education for young people with special needs, also called stu. With the proposal, the Danish People's Party wishes to require the government to submit the necessary legislative proposals by the end of 2018 and to implement the necessary administrative changes to improve and ensure quality of the living room. In addition, the Danish People's Party wants us to create a related superstructure for the programme. The government cannot support the proposal. The Danish People's Party justifies the proposal with a desire to ensure quality assurance and greater continuity and transparency of training provision for the young people involved and their parents. The proposal is also intended to give students access to vocational training in the form of a study superstructure. It is the view of the Danish People's Party that there is a large local difference between how the stu is practiced in the municipalities and that the parents find it difficult to get an overview of the possibilities. The Stu has recently been evaluated. The evaluation shows that the municipalities are undertaking the task as they should and that the training has been implemented according to the political intentions. If something works, there must be good reasons to change it anyway. The evaluation shows in black and white that the room works around the municipalities. Therefore, we in the government see no reason to change the framework for the training or regulation of the municipalities or otherwise make major changes in relation to the stu. Then there is the proposal to set up a new special training programme for higher education. We do not think this is a good idea, and we justify this by the fact that students who can benefit from another youth education already have the opportunity today. Right now the Danish Parliament is discussing the legislative proposals for the agreement on the new preparatory initial training, also known as fgu. This agreement includes, inter alia: The aim is to ensure that students can be assessed at the end of the course. There is also the economic aspect. A higher education course will entail considerable additional costs if the starting point for such an education is the same conditions and framework for the pupils as in the current three-year study programme. The Danish People's Party also wants the local authorities to be informed that the individual student must have the offer that meets the individual's wishes and opportunities. To this I would like to stress that it is already laid down in the law that the Youth Education Guide, together with the young person and the parents, draws up an individual training plan. This plan is made on the basis of up to 12 weeks of clarification. It is the municipal council which approves the final training plan, but if the young person does not agree with the training plan, the case may be brought before the Board of Appeal for Special Education. In 2017, only a few complaints were received. Overall, the government does not believe that the Danish People's Party's reasons weigh heavily enough to change the studio as it is today. The Danish People's Party's proposal will also mean substantial additional expenditure on the stu scheme, expenditure for which the proposers have not found funding. Finally, I should like to mention that on 27 February I met with the voting circle. Here we agreed that the Ministry would continue to work on supporting initiatives that could be initiated without legislative changes. The initiatives are: a benchmarking analysis of transitions, integration from the studio, a best practice catalogue and a stu portal for students and parents to make the study offer visible and disseminate knowledge about best practice. In this way, we have together sought ways to address the individual attention points identified by the evaluation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110728	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110733	Thank you very much. And thank you for the Minister's comments, I guess. I wonder if it is the same evaluation that we have read, because when I read the evaluation from last summer, I read that yes, there are things that work well and fortunately for it but that there is also really, very much that is not good enough. There is a very large variation in the quality of the offers that are around, and it is of course no wonder, because there is no kind of requirement, no one checks how the level is • it depends solely on what the municipalities may want. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the Minister really does not read out of the evaluation that there are some challenges that we need to address in terms of ensuring the quality of the individual offers and whether we do not also have to ensure that the transitions are working, because it is clearly stated that the transition after the study very, very much does not work. And if there aren't a lot of complaints, isn't it about this being a relatively weak group that may not just have someone to make a complaint for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110838	Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110840	Thank you. I believe that the evaluation is quite positive in terms of the main aspects of the study programme and also in terms of the implementation of it by the municipalities. It is true that there are municipal differences, just as there are many other courses. Among other things: In the area of primary education, which the municipalities also operate, there are very, very large differences, although they are subject to the same legislation. What we just want to do to assist the municipalities in their work with the studio and to strengthen parents' insight into what opportunities there are are, among other things. to create a stu portal so that we can make studio offers visible and disseminate knowledge about best practice, so that the municipalities, which have not been as good as the best, can be inspired and improved their practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110926	Here you go, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426110928	It is of course interesting that the Minister should mention the primary school area, because we are currently sitting in a different context and discussing how we can intervene against those schools that are not performing well enough. We will never get that discussion about the room because there is no control or requirement on the level. We have received a reply from the Minister in the contract circle which describes that introducing a quality level in this area would entail an additional cost of up to 200 million. kr. Is it not because it is estimated that the offers do not actually meet a reasonable quality? Otherwise, there was no need for extra money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111008	What is special about the study is that, as its full text shows, it is a specially organized youth education. This means that it is individually organized and it also makes it more difficult to set standards in relation to that particular education. So it is an education which must be organized for some young people who have special needs or disabilities, and it is the municipality that together with the family must go in and put together a programme that suits the individual young person. That is what is important, but the fact that it is individually organised is also one of the things that makes it difficult to establish precise standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111046	Thank you. There are no further comments to the Minister for Education, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111059	On the part of the Social Democrats, we would like to acknowledge the initiative of the Danish People's Party in tabling this resolution. I think it is appropriate to read from the motion for a resolution: the Danish Parliament instructs the government to submit the necessary legislative proposals by the end of 2018 and to implement the necessary administrative changes to improve and improve the quality of the specially organised youth education (tuition) and to create a related superstructure for the training. The specially organized youth education is an important part of the effort to provide young people with special conditions with good opportunities in life. We have also attached ourselves to the fact that several fingers are raised in the Ministry's evaluation. These include the uneven use by municipalities of specially organized education, the lack of information on specially organized education and the lack of long-term planning in connection with a young person's specially organized educational course. It is a pity when you can experience the joy a young person can express by having reached a position where every day offers something new, something to stand up to, an opportunity to fill a place in the labour market and an opportunity to play the leading role in his own life and pride over it. If anyone were to be in doubt that this is the reality, then they should have attended the conference that was held, where LEV's KLAP project was presented and presented results of where young people were experienced, who were so frustrated by self-confidence in being able to play a role in our society. Personally I meet at Skovsgård Hotel in northern Jutland a group of these citizens, and they have a fantastic experience at a vibrant traditional station city hotel that would otherwise be closed down. If these citizens did not fulfil the role of waiters, dishwashers and other services, it would not be an option and they would not have a good daily life with anything to stand up to. Similarly, I find that the local area's joy in still having a hotel as a framework for birthdays and other family anniversaries is significant. The conclusion is that as a society, we are missing out on good energy and joy by not ensuring that a stu-education achieves its full goal. We therefore support the intentions behind the motion for a resolution, and we are happy to help to find a common basis for ensuring this through a report in committee. When it comes to economics, we would like to have something more secure ground under our feet than a remark that the cost and funding requirements for the quality assurance system and the study superstructure are addressed prior to the financial law negotiations for 2019 and onwards, which is why we cannot vote in favour, but we are therefore happy to contribute to a report in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111415	Thank you. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111420	Thank you for your support and thank you for your commitment to join in the further work. When we in the Danish People's Party say that we would like to find the means for this in the context of the Finance Act, it is of course a question of the fact that when we have resisted tax cuts of various kinds, it is in order to establish a room for manoeuvre that can be used for what is really, really important. That is why the funding has been set in motion in this way. I would like to ask the rapporteur how the social democracy will enter into and ensure that we also get something done about this. Because they say that we do not have the economy completely under control. No, we haven't, until we've decided to go ahead and find out what's gonna happen. So how do the Social Democrats think we're going to get on with making this happen in too long?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111508	Well, I just have to say that a little firm commitment has to be made by the government which is required to take on this task, that that government will also find the economy for it. Because that is the situation. Unfortunately, it is the case that we are not invited to the budget negotiations. So we want to make sure that we do not spend some money that is not available. And that is what we are expressing. And it is not stronger than we support the intentions behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111539	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111542	But then I would like to confirm that the Social Democratic Party will support the idea that this money should be set aside to the extent that the Social Democratic Party will be given power to do so if we take it as part of what we want to use the room for manoeuvre because this is so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111600	But what I have promised today is that we would be happy to contribute to a report in the Education Committee to ensure the intentions expressed by the Danish People's Party. We are quite prepared to do so. Unfortunately, however, there is no tradition that we should be involved in the current financial law negotiations, and we must then look at how we deal with this from the perspective of a committee when we want to achieve the objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111631	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111635	Thank you for your kindness with regard to your intentions. I would like to continue a little with the question that my colleague raised about the economic situation in this particular area in relation to the room for manoeuvre. The rapporteur's argument is that you do not participate in the financial law negotiations, but if you agree that this is important and that you want to take part in it, then you can also help to say that it has to be financed in relation to the room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111707	With such a slightly fresh remark, I could say that the parties that have helped to drive the green harvester across the public budgets by 2% could not set the green harvester at 2%, but set it at a lower percentage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111722	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111724	I do not think that is quite fair, because I think that the Social Democratic Party was at the head of the budget law at the time. I would like to ask where the rapporteur will help to find some money if you want to help complete this proposal, which is important for a great many people, and which many people also want the rapporteur himself mentioned, among other things. the conference that was, but I can also mention the investment pool project that we set in motion in order to make an experiment with a superstructure which has, of course, had really, very good results.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111800	Well, I think that the Danish People's Party should be a little hesitant about how we talk away from each other in this area. I have given a clear commitment that we would like to help fulfil the intentions behind the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party. After all, the financial law as a whole is a rather patchy patchwork, which must be put together in different ways, and I am just not in a position at this stage to say where it is that the money should be given priority. I can say that we in the Socialist Group have of course put the emphasis on giving priority to welfare rather than tax relief, and this is one of the considerations that the Danish People's Party must also make, i.e. whether they are on the welfare agenda or they are on the tax relief agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111845	Thank you. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426111855	Thank you. We are dealing here with a motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, and I must start by saying that the Left will vote against the motion. However, I would also like to say that we in the Left fully agree with the authors of many of the points that have also been included in the resolution. The guaranteeing of good quality in the room and, for that matter, transparency are some of the things that also mean a great deal to us. Students in the classroom and their parents often find themselves in a situation where there are major challenges, and I also believe that they deserve the system to help them as well as possible. As rapporteur for both the Left and the Left, but also as a mother, it is one of the things that is very close to my heart. So I am really glad that the Danish People's Party is now making this proposal, because then we will also have the opportunity to discuss it here in the Parliamentary Chamber today. It is the government's opinion that the concrete proposals made by the Danish People's Party in this resolution may not be fully understood; at least I have not been able to find anything about what it will actually cost. I guess that's one of the things that makes me say that, among other things. That is why we have to reject the motion for a resolution. One of the points raised by the Minister, which I would also like to stress, is that the government has, after all, put forward a number of points in the wake of the evaluation, which will be addressed so that there will be greater transparency. This is at least one of the things that I think is important to follow, both for the sake of the young people themselves, but perhaps also especially for the sake of their helpers, who are often their family; so that in some way there will be greater transparency in relation to the various offers that are around the country. With these words, I would like to conclude by saying that, unfortunately, we cannot vote in favour of the resolution here. And then I have also promised to greet the Conservatives, who unfortunately had to leave, and to say that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112117	Thank you. There are some brief comments. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112123	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. I find it regrettable that the rapporteur says that the Left cannot support the proposal. I know that the rapporteur is very concerned about this, and I can also hear that there is, after all, some recognition that there are some issues in this area that need to be resolved. Then you can of course put it under the fact that we don't quite know exactly what this is going to cost. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: what should be adjusted in this proposal so that the Left could vote in favour of the proposal, given that the intentions are actually agreed, agree with the elements? Well, what would we have to adjust for having the Left with us on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112202	Oh, I would find that very difficult to read in this Chamber today, which is exactly what it took for us to vote yes. But I would certainly say that it would have been a good step along the way if we also had insight into what things would cost at all. Because it is clear that the way it is presented here today, I think it is at least difficult for me to see through what it can be, among other things. such a thing as what is being proposed, that is to do a master's degree. What does it take to make it stick together?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112236	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112238	Now we are also dealing with the government's and the minister's proposals to the circle, which we can say very much are measures that can be taken to make certain things visible, but that is not something that really intervenes and does something about the quality of the offer. I think the rapporteur agrees with me on that too. But could it be imagined that the government would be required to draw up these models and make some calculations of what it would cost? And then you take a position when you have the description of how to ensure quality, how to ensure the transition, how to ensure a superstructure on this, that is, when we know what it costs and then we can adopt it at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112324	Now, I do not think it is my job here to give very good ideas to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, on what questions, etc. he may be able to address the Minister. I can only say that this means a great deal to us in the Left, and it means a great deal to me, as rapporteur, that we are ensuring good quality and that we continue to support the room as well. The evaluation pointed out a number of things, but I would also like to say in conclusion that, fortunately, there were many good things in the evaluation. I am not saying that we will achieve this, but this is probably an area we must continue to follow closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112410	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112413	Thank you. There I think the rapporteur contradicts himself when this is really important for the rapporteur, precisely in terms of ensuring quality, but also in terms of looking at a superstructure of the room. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what must it cost to invest in people? What must it cost to invest in people who have a physical or mental impairment?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112440	I do not think we can point out a certain amount in this way and say that that is what we should invest, because it is also very different from one person to another. One of the things that I think is really important is that we ensure better transitions, even when we are done with the room; that we ensure that significantly more young people get started with either employment or some form of training. I would like to say here that, fortunately, the Minister for Employment of the Left has just addressed that part, which I hope will also help a great many of the young people with special needs to get a job and get a foothold on the labour market. These are some of the things that I think are important to highlight in this Chamber today, because there is not much about getting a stu certificate as a young person if you do not move on in the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112538	Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112540	Sound's coming through! Well, this resolution is about the very thing with a superstructure and the thing about ensuring quality in the living room. That is why I am simply saying to the rapporteur: it must be difficult for the rapporteur to stand and oppose such a fantastic resolution, which has been tabled here by the Danish People's Party, precisely when the rapporteur says that this is important to the rapporteur. That is why I simply cannot understand the rapporteur's explanatory statement. For this resolution is precisely about what the rapporteur is talking about: ensuring quality and safe transitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112624	But you can do that in a number of ways. As I mentioned just now, I believe that some of what our Minister for Employment has addressed is one of the things that is important for us to address. I myself have had the Minister for Employment with me on a visit to the spare section of LEGO, where we have just started on how to help young people who have received a study programme. So many places around the country are in the process of ensuring better transitions between the room and employment. I am just saying that in the resolution which deals with the creation of a higher education programme, perhaps it is something that I do not entirely agree with. This is not necessarily the right way to go, and that is why I am going to say no to this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112719	Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112721	My fear is a little that the stu evaluation goes into oblivion. We made it and found out that there were some problems, despite the fact that it is a good education we have been created here, and then nothing really gets done about it, and in a year's time there will be a parliamentary election, and then it disappears a little into oblivion. I would have actually thought that this was probably an area where we could agree to do at least some of the things I heard the rapporteur put a lot of emphasis on this master's training, which will no doubt cost some money, but there is also a part of the motion for a resolution which probably does not cost much if it costs anything at all. So could the rapporteur be involved in making some kind of report, perhaps carrying out some of the things that do not cost money, or at least ensuring that we have a debate on this or a round of this so that it does not go into oblivion?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112816	At any rate, I can promise the SF's rapporteur that this is not going to go into mine. That's one of the things that really matters to me, so that's one of the things that's at the top of my desk. I do not want to stand here and now promising different things, but I can at least say that I would really like to be involved in further work in this area too, and I have also indicated this to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112842	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112844	Now this proposal is also about giving an overview of the opportunities that young people have, and I would really like to have an overview of ours. So what does the rapporteur think? The rapporteur says it is at the top of the table, but when does the rapporteur think that we could take the debate somewhere where the rapporteur thinks it should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112905	I can start by saying that SF's rapporteur is always welcome for a cup of coffee and a talk in my office. Otherwise, I can also say that this obviously requires the Minister to invite in for a possible further discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112919	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426112930	When you read the evaluation of the specially organized youth education published in September last year, I think you are left with the impression that the specially organized youth education is a success. These are also the reports that I receive and which I am sure other rapporteurs will receive when you talk to those involved, those who are close to it, i.e. disability organisations. We have received an education that the students, the children and the young people are happy about and that their relatives are very happy about. That is why I think it is important and I hear nothing else that we say in general terms that we have had an excellent training offer made to a group that had nothing in the past. Having said that, I think it is important to note that the evaluation also points to the need for adjustments. It is perhaps in many ways about matters that can be regulated at the local level, but I also think it is a very good idea that we should have a look at where it might be possible to improve the nationally established framework. When we look at the evaluation, we see that there are very large differences in how the training is handled from municipality to municipality. We can see that there are very significant differences in costs per person. student. One cannot automatically establish a level of quality, because there may be very different groups of pupils in the municipality concerned, but nevertheless it gives me a fairly clear feeling that there are major differences in the quality of education in each municipality. It can be said that there are differences which are interesting in view of the fact that there is no effective supervision of the training. So I think that one of the elements that it would be right to look at was whether we could find some kind of supervisory model which guarantees that there is a reasonable quality of training in all the diversity it must have in relation to which target groups it specifically targets on the individual offer. Then we can also see from the evaluation that the integration from education is not a problem-free process. When we look at what the parents have responded to in the evaluation, one out of every four of the parents says, or barely 24 per cent. I think they are unhappy with the entry, and therefore it would be a good idea to look at what can be done in this area. Can work be done with the development of contact arrangements? Can a clear framework be laid, for example? in the form of drawing up a form of employment notice? There may be several options. Finally, it is also my impression that if you ask the young people and at least the relatives, there is a very clear message that something is needed after the specially organized youth education; there is a need for some sort of superstructure. So all in all, I would say that while we can welcome the fact that we have made a very good training offer, if we want to respect the reports coming from the stakeholders in this area, we should go in and look at what changes we can make. Against this background, we in the Enhedslisten can clearly support the proposal from the Danish People's Party. We will vote in favour of this if it is put to the vote in this Chamber. Should it be the case that the Danish People's Party considers that an opportunity for a report would bring it forward? I shall not interfere; I will fully support the assessment that comes from the Danish People's Party as far as this is concerned, we would be happy to contribute to a report if that is what can drive the development forward in a sensible and proper way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426113345	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426113357	Thank you very much. The proposal we are discussing here has been put forward by the Danish People's Party and is about a little overlooked part of our education system, namely the study, the specially designed youth education for young people with special needs. In the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes to ensure quality assurance of stu services in order to ensure continuity and transparency for those involved and young people's parents. The Stu has recently been evaluated, and the evaluation indicates that the municipalities are doing quite well and that the training has been implemented as intended. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance do not believe that it makes sense to change the room in its present form. In addition, the Danish People's Party proposes to set up a related superstructure for the training, a proposal for which the proposers have found no funding. In the Liberal Alliance, we note that the agreement on the new preparatory initial training provides for students to be assessed as a target group after the end of their studies instead. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426113507	There's a comment. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426113511	Thank you. It is then the Liberal Alliance that says the same thing as the Minister said. What I am a little surprised about, and I am delighted that most other rapporteurs recognise, is that the evaluation points to some issues. Apparently, the Liberal Alliance doesn't see any problems in this education. We have an education where there is no type of quality control. In all other areas, all educational institutions, social institutions, etc., there are forms of control and supervision that ensure that quality is in order. Will the Liberal Alliance not admit that it is strange that we have such a small education for some of the weakest in society that we do not ensure quality?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426113558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426113601	I will admit that there are nuances in the evaluation that has been made of it. I think the Minister indicated that too. But I also think it is worth recognising that it may be difficult to make a general evaluation of something so tailor-made that is so individually made for the individual citizen. Then you can see that there are indications that some municipalities are doing better than other municipalities. And there, of course, it is quite obvious to look at whether one can somehow ensure that the municipalities that carry out the task well inspire the municipalities that carry out the task less well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426113638	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426113640	It may not be the easiest solution to do quality management. On the other hand, I think that we have quality models for our social institutions, we have supervision that works, and we are sitting right at the moment discussing in the field of primary education how we come after schools that do not do well enough. How are we gonna make sure we can come after those stu offers that don't do well enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426113704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426113706	In my opinion, the questioner is drawing up a picture that the room does not generally work well. It is simply not an image that I recognize or agree with. Nor do I think that is what is in the evaluation that was made of it. This does not mean, of course, that we should not put in places where there are problems, and there I think the obvious thing is, of course, that those who still have something to learn are learning from those who are actually doing very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426113731	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426113732	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for this motion for a resolution. In the alternative, we are very concerned that Denmark's young people receive a good educational programme that is meaningful to the individual. And this specially organized youth education, stu, is an offer for young people with special needs, created to ensure that these young people can participate in a training programme that suits their starting point and wishes. The Ministry of Education's evaluation of the scheme has shown that there is room for improvement, and this work is the alternative quite clear to participate in. We agree that it should be stressed to the municipality that it is the municipality's responsibility to inform and inform parents and pupils about the specially organised youth education and its opportunities. It is important that the municipalities understand that it is the needs and wishes of the learner that must be at the centre and that the learner must be presented with an offer that matches it. Of course, pupils with special needs must also have choice and freedom of choice when it comes to education. We also agree that we need to look at how to support pupils with special needs into a meaningful adult life after completing their studies. That is why we think it is a very good idea to set up a superstructure on the training so that the students who wish to continue their education will also be able to do so. That is why I would like to thank the Danish People's Party once again for what we think is a very constructive proposal and we support it. And as a former rapporteur from the Enhedslisten pointed out, if the Danish People's Party so wishes, we can make a report, and we are also in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426113923	Thank you to the rapporteur. The radical rapporteur is not here, and then the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426113934	The room, which is the specially organized upper secondary education, is quite unique. It is based on the idea that no matter what type of young person you are, no matter where you come from, what you can or what you can't, we believe that you need something, and we believe that you need some form of meaning in your life. The room is such a special type of education that people from other countries come to Denmark to see how and why we have created. If you read the evaluation and ask those who experience the studio, it is also a success. We in the Folketing have created a very good educational offer, and those who run it do it in most places in a way that is really good for young people. Education makes them more self-reliant and makes them less lonely. Sometimes I have thought that there has been a bit of ample focus on the young people on the studio going into employment after completion of it. In fact, and I think that is also in the purpose of the stu was the primary purpose of giving young people meaning in life, but also that they could have a meaningful life after the studio when they came out on the other side, and I think that remains the most important thing about the living room. The evaluation shows that there are a number of problems, and this is also what the Danish People's Party describes in the party's motion for a resolution; both that it is incalculable for both parents and young people, what the rules of the room really are, what you are entitled to and what opportunities you have. And for some of the young people who are really hurting in life, it's just really, really important that we make it quite clear what the possibilities are for them. We can learn something from that. We have learned that the transitional challenge is massive. In other words, when you enter such a protected course with very specially organized training, getting out on the other side, where there is not really anything where you can sometimes even play ball in the municipality, is actually quite frightening. We should not accept that young people are in the situation where they are left to themselves. You can do several different things. You can do a master's degree programme, as proposed by the Danish People's Party, and I have also heard that there are some in the sector who believe that such an entire leave order should be made, which says what the opportunities should be for these young people, or that a specially organised job course should be created. Just as a specially organized training could be provided for individual young people who might be in employment or in sheltered employment, a specially designed job cycle. I think it is important to continue working on the fact that young people are different, so that they also have to be different opportunities. For some, education may not be the right one, although I think it is a good idea. Then I think there is a need for more knowledge of the apostasy of young people. That's 25%. of those who start on the living room who do not complete. We know it's a vulnerable young group, but we don't know where they're going. Nor should we accept that, so we need to find out. Finally, which also takes up a great deal in the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution, we need to ensure the quality of educational institutions, and although I believe that there are a great many good studio offers, in some places it is also a bit a jungle where they are very different types of educational institutions, and I think that both quality and approval requirements can be tightened up for these educational institutions. That is also one of the points raised by the Danish People's Party. So all in all, I and SF are very concerned about the fact that the studio does not forget the book, especially at a time when you have just made a new fgu-education, which risks taking a lot of the focus of the municipalities, and where you might in some places wonder what is the cheapest offer, instead of what is the best offer for young people. So I also think we need to monitor the developments that will be here. We can support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, but I would like to say that if the SF has to make a recommendation, it is enough in fact to make a report and to try to secure broad support for some of these changes, because I actually find that all parties have an interest in it, and I think it might be interesting to get the sector involved. It is a fairly unified sector in this area and they have some common proposals, so to get them involved in the work and see if we can't find out anything could be interesting. In any case, the evaluation must not just be forgotten, which is why it is a very good resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426114414	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426114428	Thank you. Thank you for the debate, and thank you for all the good words on our proposal. Now that we are here today, it is because the Danish People's Party has actually long had a desire to develop and improve the studio. Last summer, we finally received an evaluation of the scheme, which, in my view and fortunately, also pointed to a number of specific areas where, in its present form, the stu can be much better. I'm not going to say that there was a lot of what happened to me or to the Danish People's Party, but it's good to get proof of the challenges... even though it's bad that something wasn't good because it actually provides a basis for us to start a development. It certainly did for us in the Danish People's Party. We got very clear that we have to do something. Fortunately, as has also been mentioned earlier, the evaluation also said that there is a great deal that works well in the room, and we should of course not forget that. It is also important to say that throughout the country there are a great many stu offers that make it very good for the many pupils and their families, and also municipalities that make a great effort to make the transition after the studio succeed. But what exactly is this evaluation saying? Well, it points out that there are holes in the cheese, among other things. the quality of tenders is too varied. Today there are no rules as to who can offer the room. It is entirely up to the individual municipality, which uses a stu offer, to assess whether they believe that the offer is good enough. And that is a little strange, because we have quality management and supervision of all other educational services, and we have it in our social institutions. Here we just have an institution where we say it's gonna be okay. That's not good enough. At the same time, the evaluation also demonstrates that tenders are often not targeted at the individual's future prospects. Often you are offered what the individual local municipality has as a stu offer. And here there has actually been a need for the same way as we have just agreed in the new Fgu-training that there is a long-term plan for the young person's development and perspective, so that the stu-offer becomes relevant in relation to the long-term plan. If you as a young student have a realistic dream of going to work in agriculture, it doesn't make much sense if you come to a living room where the offer there is is to be trained in standing in the store. It may be a cheaper offer for the municipality at first, but in the long run it is a waste of public resources, and not least it can be a waste of several years of the young person's life and, at worst, break down more than it builds up resources and competences. Another area pointed out in the evaluation is the transition to life after the study. Those for whom it is most easy are those who have a pension in advance and thus know how their support is in the future. Where there are generally major problems, in relation to young people who, after completing their studies, move to the employment department of the municipality and possibly come into a process of resource testing of employment. This is an area that we must be able to better coordinate and coordinate. There are places today where you can find out that if a job has been found in the course of a living room with an employer who fits in with the challenges of the young person, it is possible to continue there without having to be tested elsewhere. I know that this is an area that needs to be crossed between ministries, and I also know that we in the Danish People's Party have brought it up in the Ministry of Employment, and I think that it was also mentioned by a rapporteur earlier today, in relation to the fact that, fortunately, we are looking at whether there are some things we can do. But the key point is that the employment effort for the students, where appropriate, starts in the studio. There is no need to complete a room before starting the tests that are actually to be used in relation to e.g. a flex job or equivalent. Finally, we also see the need for a vocationally oriented superstructure in the study for the group of young people who can benefit from it. Here we imagine that we are starting from the Happy Foundation's educational models, which have just been made on the basis of an experiment that has been made, and there is an evaluation that says that it actually has a very good effect and that it brings young people further and closer to a real profession. In this context, of course, it is also important to say that it has also been mentioned today that we have just made a fugitive where we have subsequently ensured that if there is a student who has finished his or her course and can profit from getting on a fugitive, it can also be an opportunity. However, I think that what I am hearing from today's debate is, after all, a relatively broad consensus that here are some challenges that we need to work on. Then we can discuss how to move forward, but what I think is absolutely central is that it must not stop. It's been really hard to get something created and get the government to agree that we can actually do some real work to make this happen. Therefore, I will work on whether it will be with a report or whether it will be a vote here in Parliament to create as broad a majority as possible so that we actually move forward. And if the government does not want to take part in this, I hope that we can find a majority outside the government, which will at least say that it has to be done. Only yesterday I was interviewed by TV Happy, and it is always a great pleasure to be interviewed by them, because it is so life-affirming. There came a reporter, he was trained through a room, and we discussed this proposal that we were going to discuss today. Then he says at some point: when I go to my room and the teacher says that I should do it and that, and I don't think it fits with what I should do, where am I going? And then I thought, yeah, where are you going? Maybe you can go to your council, maybe you can go to me. And then it just occurred to me that whoever's in that situation in a room doesn't have the resources to go anywhere. That is why we need to ensure a system and ensure a quality and a plan that means that each young person is taken seriously throughout his or her life, and that is why we need to move forward in improving the living room so that it works. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426115058	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Since I think we should start afresh after lunch, I shall postpone the sitting. It will resume at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426125959	The sitting is resumed. I have received notification from the Party of Nunatta Qitornai that the member of the Folketing Aleqa Hammond from 25 April 2018 represents this party in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426130035	The debate is open and we start with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426130043	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here is of course that a curfew for asylum seekers under the age of 18 should be introduced in all or part of the country's asylum centres in order to monitor their movements. More specifically, a firm curfew is proposed between 1 p.m. 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. 7:00 in the morning and the possibility that in certain situations the police may issue curfews for 24 hours for either one particular young person or all residents of the centre, regardless of age. The government's position is clear: Foreigners seeking asylum in Denmark and being offered security and security and food and shelter while their asylum case is being dealt with, of course, and that is only fair, and it is regardless of age that comply with the rules that apply here in Denmark, and you have to behave properly. If they do not, of course it must have consequences. That is why I also have great sympathy for the basic idea behind the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. But I'm afraid it's not that simple. Back in 2016, when we were in a situation where we experienced incidents where young asylum seekers caused anxiety and insecurity and committed crime in asylum centres or in the neighbourhoods, we considered very much whether a curfew and a curfew could be introduced, which were very similar to what the Danish People's Party is proposing here today. At that time it was not considered a viable path to go. It was considered that it would most likely be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights to impose a curfew at night, as this would have the character of detention. That is why we thought in alternatives in the government, and we did so in relation to solving the problems of minors asylum seekers, which I fully agree with the Danish People's Party in there, and thus the young asylum seekers with a very negative and very inappropriate behaviour. It was precisely for the purpose, namely to create peace and order both in and around the country's children's asylum centres, that the government in spring 2017 put forward a bill on just calm and order in accommodations for unaccompanied minors. The draft law has, among other things, been adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Communities. granted new powers to the staff of the children's asylum centres and also increased sanctions. It is the staff of the various children's centres who set the framework for the daily lives of young people, and this is the case among other things. by means of house orders at the children's asylum centres. And that was, in fact, one of the things that we made compulsory in the aforementioned draft law. If young asylum seekers do not comply with the house order, it can be sanctioned, among other things. by being excluded from activities, but they can also be drawn into their pocket money. Of course, in the case of young crime, it must be reported immediately to the Foreign Affairs Agency and reported to the police. It should be noted in this context that foreigners suspected of serious crime may be able to be held in custody, depending on the circumstances, and if they are convicted, foreigners may subsequently be excluded from receiving asylum in Denmark. Finally, we introduced by the law a clear legal basis for unaccompanied minors to be forced into 24-hour institutions in very serious cases. So it is certainly not the case that, on the part of the government, we are not aware of the challenges facing some of these children and young people at the children's asylum centres. Let me return briefly to why it is that we do not already have rules on a curfew in these asylum centres today. As has been said, this is because the issue of curfew must be seen in relation to international obligations, and it is not so simple. The government cannot therefore support this proposal at this stage. However, as has been said, we in the government are certainly not opposed to imposing a curfew if it is in any way possible. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Ministry of Justice are therefore in the process of clarifying whether, in the light of current practice and recent judgments, which have also fallen before the Court of Human Rights, it is possible to introduce a system of night curfews, possibly also for young people under the age of 18, in order to prevent and prevent both inappropriate conduct but also direct criminal behaviour. And I can say that this work is something that I give a very high priority to, and my assessment is that we can come back with something in this field, a clarification of it before the summer break. And it is equally clear, of course, that I will inform the Danish Parliament of any further reflections that may then be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426130636	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426130640	Thank you. The best thing would of course be that the government voted in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal so that we could get it done quickly. I'd like to know why it's been so long. The Minister also says that this is something that has been mentioned in the past. This is something that has been considered in the past in the government, and I remember that we had discussions on it in the past too, and it ended up being possible to introduce this set of rules on house order in the individual centres, where you can then draw on the various services if people do not comply with the rules. This is, of course, a step in the right direction. But why has it taken so long to get to this? I would like to know that, as Question No 1, I would like to know that. 1. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 2: Is it the government's view that a curfew should be imposed, initially for young asylum seekers under 18 years of age, at the country's asylum centres? Is it the view of the government that this should be done and that the practical way to do it should be found?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426130734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426130735	To the end: we ourselves have signed a number of conventions, and we have always said, as a government, that we respect them, of course. But it is also the case that there may be an ongoing change in practice around here, that there are judgments in the Court of Human Rights, and we must, of course, keep that in mind at all times. That's why this work is also an ongoing process. But I can say that right now there are actually officials from both my ministry, but also from the Ministry of Justice, working on this to see if there are any options. And if there is, then the government's position is that a curfew should be imposed. So if the opportunity is there, a curfew must be imposed. Then the question is: What's taking so long? Well, I guess it's because it's some kind of dynamic process when it comes to these things. So it will be continuous that you will be able to see changes as well as we tightened up, as Mr. Martin Henriksen himself also mentioned this last year in this area, so that sanctions will be imposed precisely if you do not comply with the commitments you have. So there is house order, and so you can also go in and search rooms if you suspect that there are, for example. are drugs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426130912	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426130913	The government's love for the conventions is great. If it were as big for the country, it would be very good. Maybe we could go a little further a little faster. I just need to know if I get it right. Should I understand the answer given by the Minister so that by the summer there will be a clear response from the government to whether a curfew is to be imposed on the country's asylum centres, in this case for young people under the age of 18? Will there be a clear response from the government before the summer whether this is something on which the government intends to put forward legislative proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426130950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426130951	At any rate, I can say so much that the ambition is that, before the summer, both the recent judgments that have fallen and the practices that may be around have been examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426131001	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party, who starts out in the rapporteur's line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426131013	We have been discussing for a long time how to deal with children who have applied for asylum in Denmark and who do not have their parents with us. Several of them come from North African countries, and we know that they very, very rarely receive asylum. The Secretary-General of the Red Cross makes it very clear in an article in Berlingske that tells of a sharp increase in charges against these children. Here he explains that, for the vast majority of people, it cannot be described as refugees. First of all, it is a tragedy that unaccompanied children from Africa are wandering around Europe without a residence permit, without proper rights and opportunities for a child's life like everyone else. It is also unsatisfactory that in Denmark and other countries we see crime following the arrival of these children. For the Social Democratic Party, it is first and foremost crucial that the state accepts responsibility when children arrive unaccompanied in Denmark. This also means that it is the authorities that take the place of the parents. We therefore believe that it is perfectly natural that asylum seekers who state that they are under the age of 18 should also accept that the authorities can lay down rules as to when you are in your room at the centre and when you are not. The Folketing has tightened up these rules one year ago with the support of the Social Democratic Party. We have supported the establishment of a house order at the asylum seekers' accommodation sites, and we have supported the possibility of sanctioning in relation to pocket money for those who do not comply with the rules and we have supported the possibility of examining rooms without a court order. It is the government's responsibility that these new opportunities be used when necessary. However, we still believe that there are challenges in dealing with this group of children. We have therefore not finally determined how we intend to deal with this motion for a resolution. We want clarity on the extent of the problems of unaccompanied asylum children leaving the asylum centres late in the evening, and we want to wait for this debate and have listened in particular today to the arguments of the government and the assessment of whether the initiative presented could make a difference. We have also noted in particular that the Minister says that this is not possible at present. Finally, we want to use the committee procedure to investigate what might be of any other means to better control this particular group of children. In these words, we look forward to a good and constructive debate and the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426131244	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426131247	Thank you. On 2 August 2016 it was a while ago, so the Social Democratic Party has had time to consider the position, it must be said that it is the heading of politics.dk: Politic majority behind proposals for curfew at asylum centres. And it appears from the article that the Liberal Alliance, like the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party, will make curfews at asylum centres possible. And then Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democrat Legal Rapporteur, and I quote: "When we provide young asylum seekers with protection, it is by no means unreasonable to demand that they behave properly and comply with the laws and rules of the game that apply in the Danish society," says the Social Democrats' Legal Rapporteur. That is what has been said about the social democracy, among other things. supports that there should be a curfew at least in certain situations in the country's asylum centres. Is that still the view of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426131332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426131333	I agree with what our legal rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen, says in that article, and since that article has been put forward, we have also helped to change the legislation towards the things I have mentioned here in the house order, the possibility of drawing in pocket money, the possibility of searching rooms. However, I also said in my rapporteur's speech that we are in doubt as to whether that is enough and whether that money is being spent and whether there may be the possibility of introducing some other tools, including the curfew on which this resolution is concerned. However, we also note that the government says that there will be some legal issues to be clarified and a discussion on whether there can be other means of achieving the same objective. And that is what we intend to use the committee procedure for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426131422	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426131423	Should I then understand that the Social Democratic Party still believes that there should be a curfew in the asylum centres at least in certain situations? Or has the Social Democratic Party gone from thinking that there should be, to being unanswered on the issue now? Because I must not hide the fact that I would like to see a broad majority in the Danish Parliament supporting the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party. Then we'll have to get the message from Mr. Kim. Mattias Tesfaye, is it considered that, if it were to be put to the vote, the Social Democrats would vote against the proposal, or would they vote in favour of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426131454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426131455	We think it is quite natural that when it comes to children who have come here and who are under 18 years of age and have no parents, the authorities take the place of the parents. And part of the parents' job is also to tell the children when you are wandering around outside and when you are lying in bed. It is therefore our view that it should be quite reasonable for accommodation establishments to set a time when they should be in their rooms. But what I also hear from the government is that there are some legal things that need to be clarified first, so that is our one reservation, and the other reservation is that we would also like to discuss whether the tools we have already adopted are being used, how large the scope is and whether there may be some other means that can also help us in the same direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426131539	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Mattias Tesfaye. The word goes straight to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426131548	Thank you very much, President. Thanks also to the Danish People's Party for highlighting an extremely important issue, which is precisely about the possibility of a partial curfew for asylum seekers under 18 years of age. I am very much in favour of the intention behind this motion for a resolution, because it should be understood as a response to the fact that in the areas around the asylum centres there are, and in particular when the pressure for asylum was considerably higher, there was a very, very great insecurity, because there have unfortunately been examples of crime in the local areas near the asylum centres. And, of course, we cannot allow that. We cannot, on the one hand, offer asylum seekers security and security in this country and, at the same time, look at the fact that thanks are local unrest. Therefore, I am glad that the Danish People's Party insists on wanting to debate this issue, which has been up several times in recent years. However, the government has already tightened up the law in this area. In 2017, with the adoption of a bill, we gave new powers to the staff of the asylum centres and increased sanctions, which means that young asylum seekers who do not comply with the house order can be sanctioned. And if they commit crime, it must of course be reported immediately to the Foreign Affairs Agency and reported to the police. In addition, if you try to see this in a slightly larger perspective, you will see that the government's very, very many and diverse actions have, of course, contributed strongly to our having an historically low asylum pressure in Denmark right now. This has led to the closure of numerous asylum centres, including in areas where there was insecurity in the community. So, on the one hand, there is not the insecurity that existed especially two years ago, but on the other hand, of course, we always have to look at how we can create greater security in this area. And here a curfew is a possible solution, a possible tool that is clearly worth looking at. However, I can understand from both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Ministry of Justice that it is not so easy to introduce a curfew. That is why I am particularly pleased that the Minister also said just now that we are examining the possibility of a curfew that is within the framework of international commitments. In other words, until that study is completed and it is not at this stage that the Left cannot support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426131827	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426131843	Thank you very much. And I'm here in the absence of our integration rapporteur, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. The Danish People's Party is proposing a permanent curfew from 1 p.m. 10:00 a.m. until 10:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m. for all asylum seekers under the age of 18. Nor does the party conceal the fact that what they want is, in fact, an even more far-reaching detention. If you read the comments on the proposal, you will see that it says that they would like to see all asylum seekers not just those under the age of 18 • got nocturnal curfew. Yes, and the party also wants to see whether all asylum seekers cannot simply be locked up all the time. So it is the Danish People's Party that we know the party. The proposal is based on a real problem, and that is also what is referred to, namely that the asylum system and the authorities of this time have been challenged by a group of young underage boys, mainly from North Africa, who are seeking asylum in Denmark but who do not intend to stay here. So it is not real asylum seekers who have come here because they have an asylum case. And they usually disappear again before their asylum case is completed. So their purpose for the stay is at least for some people to seem to commit crime before they disappear out of Denmark again. And, of course, that is unacceptable and something that should not be left unnoticed. Fortunately, Denmark has an effective asylum system which, even if we compare it with other countries, determines relatively quickly whether asylum seekers have a need for protection or whether they are some who do not have a need for asylum. And Enhedslisten believes that with the rules we have, we are able to handle this small group of young men. And it should not destroy our ability to give proper treatment to those asylum seekers who come here with a real need for protection, with real intentions. They should not be deprived of the protection they need because a small group is abusing the system. The Danish People's Party is using this small group of criminals who do not have real intentions to propose that all asylum seekers should be taken away at night at first only, and initially only minors, but it is clear from the comments on the motion for a resolution that DF's ambition is to go further than that, namely that detention all asylum seekers should continue. In the Enhedslisten, we do not support collective punishment. When an asylum seeker, a minor or an adult, commits crime, we have the police, the authorities responsible for investigating, solving and punishing it. But because one or more asylum seekers are violating the law, we cannot just lock up all asylum seekers. This is not only contrary to common sense but also to the fundamental principles of our legal system. I'm sure sir. Martin Henriksen doesn't like the comparison, but this reminds me a little of when, after some of the rapes that had been at Roskilde Festival, gender scientist Henrik Marstal was out suggesting that men should form access to Roskilde Festival. In fact, I believe that Mr. Martin Henriksen himself was out to react extremely negatively to that announcement. And for good reason. Because we should not punish people collectively. Asylum seekers must have a good framework for the life they live while waiting for a decision on their case. I don't want them locked up. Nor should they be locked up at night because they are young. There are also other young people in Denmark who commit crime, and they are not detained between 1 p.m. 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. Seven o'clock. It is the task of the police and the authorities to deal with this small group, and of course they must have the resources to do so. We must be aware of this, and the Minister of Justice must be aware of this. But this proposal cannot be supported by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132242	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132254	We are dealing here with a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party to introduce a full or partial curfew for asylum seekers under 18 years of age at the country's asylum centres. In the Liberal Alliance, we are aware that the government has already taken several different steps and tightened up the conditions for unaccompanied minors. There are, among other things: In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. In the Liberal Alliance we also note that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Ministry of Justice are currently assessing whether a curfew will be within the framework of Denmark's obligations under international conventions, and we will await the ministries' assessments. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132348	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132351	Thank you. On 2 August 2016, there was an article on Politiken.dk and also elsewhere where the headline was: "Political majority behind proposals for curfew on asylum centres'. It appears that the Liberal Alliance, like the Social Democrats and DF, will make curfew in asylum centres possible. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille then speaks in this article, where he says: "If there is less trouble, it must be possible for the asylum centre to detain them (the asylum seekers, save. ) and make sure they don't run around bothering people. Is that still the view of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132429	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132433	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132434	Why on earth can the Liberal Alliance not vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132440-2	I believe that what Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille is quoted as saying is that the young people who cause trouble must be given the opportunity to sanction or punish. What the Danish People's Party is proposing here is a general curfew for everyone. I see some nuance differences in these two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132506	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132512	Thank you. The purpose of this motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party, as we have also heard, is to impose a curfew for all asylum seekers under the age of 18, also rejected, during the period at 6 p.m. 22-07. I have to say that I am very concerned when I read the comments on the motion for a resolution, because DF writes that they really want to go further. They want to introduce a night curfew for all asylum seekers, regardless of their age, and proposers want to examine the possibility of introducing a curfew 24 hours a day at all asylum centres. And then the Danish People's Party writes: '... but since it is the assessment that at present there is no majority in favour of these restrictions which go further, these elements are not included in the motion for a resolution. No, thank God for that. In other words, proposing to impose a curfew on all young people, whether or not they have committed crime, is discrimination. It is discrimination in the real sense of the word. This is not surprising to me, but I am nevertheless surprised, because I have just replaced the first two proposals we discussed in this Chamber today in the field of education, where a motion for a resolution had also been tabled by the Danish People's Party. And then it was quite nice to stand up here on the platform and actually back that resolution because it was about ensuring young people who have difficulties, opportunities for education, and this is quite the opposite of it. This is a motion for a resolution which is about ensuring that a whole group of young people, whether or not they have committed crime, are locked up. This isn't about integration. No, it's about locking them up. It's about not treating them like others. That is why I believe that this is also a direct attack on our freedoms and our democracy. Then it is quite clear that when it comes to young people who go out and do things in the night life that they should not do, yes, the police must take tough action against them. There is also full scope for this with the legislation that exists today, including the tightening-up which we heard the Minister and the government were in charge and which has been introduced. There are a number of tools you can use there. But I think we should keep in mind that locking these young people in is of no use to anyone. The fact that we discriminate against people is of no use to anyone. We must remember that we live in a country where there is no difference between rich or poor, white or brown, Dane or refugee child. With these comments, I can say here that the alternative cannot support the proposal. And I should like to greet the Radical Left and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132814	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132816	It was good that Mrs Josephine Fock could start the day by being in favour of a DF proposal. This is, of course, one of the things that Mrs Josephine Fock knows very well about, about an extension to the studio, which will help young Danes with a disability • people who are Danish citizens and who, of course, have a legal residence permit in Denmark. We in the Danish People's Party would very much like to help them. We've done that several times, and we're going to do it again. This proposal is about some people who haven't been told whether they're allowed to be in Denmark or not. Some of them have been told that they must not be in Denmark at all, some of them are not eligible for asylum in Denmark at all. And then I would urge that I do not know if Mrs Josephine Fock has tried to go around every once in a while and visit some of the people, ordinary Danes, who are neighbours to some of the asylum centres we have in Denmark. The problem has, of course, been reduced now because we have fortunately closed a number of asylum centres because fewer are coming, but there are many who are neighbours to asylum centres and have seen young, full asylum seekers wandering around people's gardens in the middle of the night and behaving in a way that is totally unacceptable. I have heard of people who, for example, no longer dare to let their daughters go out late at night because there is an asylum centre. I've heard several different stories about that. There we are, unfortunately, in a situation where the police do not have enough resources or do not have enough focus on what may be many different reasons to get out to these people. And there we just owe it to those who experience these things to say that the Danes must benefit from the doubt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426132946	Well, it could be that you had to grab it in a completely different way. It could be that you shouldn't centralize these centres and put everyone together in a place where you don't. It could be. That, for example. has proposed that they should be able to enter the municipalities immediately, even during the asylum procedure. Perhaps that would ensure that you do not have a group of young people who have nothing to do and who sit there in a waiting position. In addition, I fully agree that it is, of course, unacceptable if crimes are committed in the local area. But again, it's the wrong way to do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426133025	Here you go, sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426133031	Thank you. Of course, they could also be rejected at the border, so we were beyond that problem. That would be the most optimal. But, of course, we cannot start sending people out to the municipalities and start assigning them accommodations in the municipalities without even obtaining a residence permit in Denmark. That's the happy crazy thing. I just want to know whether Mrs Josephine Fock basically agrees with the Danish People's Party that young people of 15 years of age, or 14 years of age for that matter, do not have to run around at night. They must be at home in their beds. Isn't that a very good starting point?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426133102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426133103	That's a very nice question, because oh, how nice it would be if these young people had a bed and a home to live in when they were 14-15 years old, because it would be really nice for them. And no, I do not think it is completely out of hand to say that we should send them to the municipalities immediately, because then, even if they do not get a residence permit, they might also learn something about the country's democratic values and so on, which they can actually use when they go back home. As far as police resources are concerned, we could stop guarding the border. It would release a great many police resources, including: to work on crime prevention with SSP, etc. in the local areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426133152	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. So we'll actually make it all the way to sir. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426133209	Thank you. People seeking asylum in Denmark must comply with the rules and laws we have in Denmark. There is no point in harassing the local areas around an asylum centre by the residents of the centre, both adults and children. While the asylum case is being dealt with, you get security, food and a roof over your head, and at least you have to comply with the rules that exist and behave properly. When residents violate the rules that are at the center and in Danish society in general, it must have some serious consequences. Many asylum seekers have come here with war trauma. Others have also come here for cynical reasons, some of them are just illegal immigrants shopping from country to country, some of them claim to be children but are actually over 18 years old. However, regardless of the background, there is nothing to justify insecurity-building behaviour in the local community. We also believe that curfew is a reasonable sanction for both young people and adults who have not yet been granted asylum and residence permits in Denmark. It must be a possible sanction against asylum seekers who do not comply with the rules. It is also an initiative that we have looked at before, where the government has considered that this cannot be done within the framework of Denmark's international obligations. The Conservative People's Party and the government are of the opinion that Denmark must respect its international obligations, even if we disagree. Having said that, I also know that the government is examining the extent to which we can use curfew as a sanction against asylum seekers who do not comply with the rules. I look forward to and look forward to seeing the outcome of that study, so at this stage we say no to the DF's motion for a resolution, but are not opposed to us being able to say yes at a later stage when an investigation has been made by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426133428	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426133439	Thank you. This proposal has been put forward by the Danish People's Party because there have been major problems with underage asylum seekers who have come to Denmark and who have little difficulty in finding out how to behave in Danish society. I do not have to hide the fact that I myself have had the pleasure of visiting neighbors to asylum centres around the country, people who do not always have the great desire to come forward, who can tell about how, in the evening and night hours, there are residents from the asylum centre, young people who drink very drunk, senselessly drunk, not everyone, of course, but some people who simply have no respect for people's property and, for example, respect for the Danish families who are in the area in question, and do not treat the girls in the area in question particularly well. It does, of course, mean that there may be some parents who get a little nervous, and where you might have thought earlier that it was okay and okay that your daughters came home a little late in the evening from various activities, you will be reluctant to say that they can, and maybe even pick them up and bring them. This is a really boring development, and we must, of course, do something about it. In addition, we in the Danish People's Party think it is quite obvious in relation to young people who have just come to Denmark, have a completely different culture, and where we know that unfortunately there are some who cannot behave properly, that we from the Danish community say: When you say, for example, that you are not able to behave properly. If you are at a Danish asylum centre, we have an expectation that you will be home at night and that you will not be running around in different places. But even if they can figure out how to behave, it doesn't really matter that we say it. I do not think it is very controversial. In fact, I think it is quite common sense and good to make sure to tell these young people that there is a framework in Denmark and some consequences if you cannot find a way to comply with the rules that exist. We have, of course, made this proposal by the Danish People's Party because we think it is a good idea, and also because we have been able to read in the press that there was a political majority in the Social Democratic Party, the Liberal Alliance, which may of course be nuances, which basically agreed with the Danish People's Party that it could be sensible to have a curfew at certain times at the country's asylum centres for asylum seekers under 18 years of age. Then, of course, I have also noted that the Minister says that before the summer, on the basis of the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution, the government will make an assessment of whether this can be done within the framework of the international conventions. We would have liked to have done it now, but we hope, of course, that what comes out of this work, and what comes out of the debate and the assessment that comes at some point, is that we can work towards a system that actually brings us a little better track of some of the young asylum seekers who are in Danish society today. It has to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426133724	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426133744	The negotiations have been opened, and that is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426133802	I would like to start by stating that I am in agreement with the idea behind the motion for a resolution. Foreigners who come to this country must, of course, as a clear starting point, support themselves and their families, and that is also a long way down the road today, because there is a great deal of demand for self-reliance in the law on foreigners. With the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party specifically proposes that foreigners who have received cash assistance or start-up aid for 3 years should automatically have withdrawn their residence permit. There must be a concrete assessment in each case, but the clear starting point must therefore be that a residence permit is withdrawn if a resident has received Danish cash assistance or start-up aid for 3 years. Let me begin by saying that the former S-led government abolished the start-up aid back in 2011. The government then reinstated the start-up aid in 2015 in the form of the so-called integration benefit granted to persons who would otherwise meet the conditions for cash benefits but who have not been in Denmark for at least 7 years in the last 8 years. The integration grant was introduced to make it less attractive to seek asylum in Denmark and to give newcomers refugees and foreigners a greater incentive to work and to integrate. Level of integration benefit per year 1 July this year will correspond to the level of Danish SU minus 3%, and on top of that a Danish bonus can be granted to people who have passed Danish 2 or equivalent. We do so because we believe that it is necessary to further encourage the recipients of the benefit to take on a job, become self-supporting and thus, of course, also to be integrated into the ordinary Danish daily life. I can see that the introduction of the integration benefit has worked, because the number of employees and the employment of refugees and the families of refugees has almost doubled from the fourth quarter of 2015, when the proportion was 20%, to 38%. in the fourth quarter of 2017. Although several things may have affected the progress, the reduction in the allowance, i.e. the introduction of the integration benefit, must be assumed to have weighed heavily. As I started by saying, there are already a large number of demands for self-reliance in the Aliens Act. This is the case in cases of spouse reunification, where it is generally a permanent condition for the residence permit that neither foreigners nor their resident spouse receive public support. This is the case until the foreigner obtains a permanent residence permit, which is one of the reasons for this. so requires that the alien has been legally resident in this country for at least 8 years. The current dependency requirement for the reunification of a spouse shall be met unless there are exceptional grounds to oppose it, including consideration of the unity of the family. In addition, the requirement of self-reliance may be made to parents living in the country seeking family reunification with their children, whose essential reasons therefore speak. Also for foreigners who come to the country to work or study, they are required to support themselves and their accompanying families, and I would also like to mention that it is a requirement to obtain permanent residence permits that foreigners have not received public support in the last four preceding years before their application, and also that foreigners should have been in ordinary full-time employment or have pursued self-employed activities for at least 31⁄2 years in the last four years. In addition to the rules already in force, the Danish People's Party therefore wants to introduce a rule that the receipt of public support for a period of 3 years should mean the withdrawal of the residence permit. This must therefore apply, as I understand this proposal, regardless of the background on which the alien has been granted a residence permit in Denmark and no matter how long the alien has lived here, and whether the alien has also shown a willingness to work and integrate and regardless of the foreigner's family situation here in Denmark. However, such a rule will have to be waived in a number of cases because of our international obligations, including in relation to the European Union, the Refugee Convention and the European Court of Human Rights, and this also means that in a large number of cases there will be no involvement. This would be the case, for example, for EU citizens who are living in this country as workers or self-employed workers, or for EU citizens who have a permanent right of residence. Refugees will also have to be exempted from the proposed requirement, as it will not be in line with our international obligations to send refugees to areas where their lives or freedom may be at risk, solely on the basis of the reception of, for example. cash benefits. For other foreigners it can e.g. If the foreigner's relationship with Denmark speaks against the withdrawal of the residence permit, and if Denmark's international obligations mean that the foreigner is entitled to continue to reside in Denmark, then it must be respected. For foreigners who have obtained permanent residence permits, the withdrawal of a residence permit on the basis of receipt of e.g. cash benefits are often not proportional on the basis of the balance to be made according to Denmark's international obligations, and this is linked to the requirements for permanent residence permits, which also include: as a starting point requires that the alien has been legally resident in Denmark for at least 8 years and has previously been in full-time employment for 31⁄2 of the last 4 years. There will therefore be a large number of cases in which the proposed requirement for automatic withdrawal of the residence permit for a foreigner who has received public support for 3 years is to be waived. The assessment is also that the introduction of the proposed self-reliance requirement alone should be expected to have a limited impact on the number of involvements. So, in conclusion, I agree with the idea behind the resolution. You must, of course, support yourself and your family when you come to this country. We should not hold back the Danish state. That is why we have tightened the rules in this area, and we have done so together with the Danish People's Party and thank you for that. As I have just examined, it is therefore the view that this proposal will have a very limited meaning, and that is therefore not something I think we should be following at the moment. On the other hand, we have just tightened the rules on the provision of integration, as we have reason to believe that it will help to get even more foreigners, especially refugees, into work, and the government cannot therefore support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426134616	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426134618	I was wondering if it was such a part of the school to become a minister that one had to go to some school where one learned to say Denmark's international obligations very quickly many times because that did the minister well enough. And the government is happy with the conventions, you could understand that there is no doubt about that. If you were toying with the idea that the international conventions were not there or that you could get out of them or make reservations about them... you might well think the government would, or would the Minister think that it was a reasonable proposal? So, I'm trying to get a little bit out of the minister, whether it's a political attitude that doesn't want to support the Danish People's Party's proposal or whether it's because you've accepted this straitjacket as the conventions are.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426134700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426134702	In other words, as I have said, I believe that one is obliged to support oneself when one comes here. I think it is quite obvious that this should be the case. But if you do, for example... If we take refugees who have not been able to get to work within three years, then I find it very difficult to see, for example, that they have been able to get to work within three years. should send a Syrian family to Syria right now, if there is no peace and if one is in a position to possibly not survive, that one is sent forth. I don't think we can have that on us. But we must send refugees as soon as there is peace in their area. That is the balance that has to be struck all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426134742	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426134743	I am not sure that was an answer to my question. In other words, the Minister says that you must have an obligation to support yourself. And we can say that in here, just as crazy as we want, but if you do not meet that commitment, it must have a consequence. And that is where we propose that the consequence is that you get your residence permit withdrawn because you have pulled too much money out of Danish society and you are not able to contribute to society, in this case financially. And then I would just like to know whether the Minister believes politically that this proposal is a good idea. Then there may be different exceptions with different justifications • the conventions, political arguments for making some exceptions. But do the ministers and the government basically believe that this is a reasonable proposal? And if you answer yes to that question, will the Minister investigate whether there are areas where it can be implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426134832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426134833	I believe, as I said, that the substance of this is reasonable, precisely that you have to support yourself. But it can be said that we are just and fortunately it is also with the votes of the Danish People's Party that we have dealt with it in a slightly different way, in which in many cases we are putting up some barriers that will allow you to come here at all if you cannot support yourself. In addition, we have, for example. I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances is an important step in the right direction. And we can see that worked. So it is like two ways of attacking the same starting point, precisely that foreigners must support themselves. Because I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426134924	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democratic Party heading for the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426134940	With this resolution from the Danish People's Party, foreigners must lose the right to reside in Denmark if they have gone unemployed for 3 years and have therefore received cash benefits. The Danish People's Party also proposes that their minor children should be sent out of the country unless a partner or spouse can take over responsibility for the children. Social democracy cannot support the proposal. The Danish welfare society cannot cope with uncontrolled immigration and lack of integration, either economically or culturally, and it is therefore essential that the Danish Parliament secures legislation that keeps immigration as far as possible at a controlled level and actively supports good integration. This may sometimes require tough decisions in this Chamber, but it also requires that we keep our tongues straight, and this proposal expresses the opposite. It should not be easy to obtain a permanent residence permit, nor is it easy. We ask, among other things. requirements for people's employment in Denmark, just as we demand a fairly spotless criminal record and Danish knowledge at a certain level. But once we've given people this right to stay permanently in Denmark, then something very serious has to be done before we have to include this residence permit. It can, for example, be done. be rape or murder. But we should not start throwing people out because they have been unemployed. Some of them may have worked in Denmark for decades and may have lost their benefit rights and have ended up on cash benefits. They have paid into the Danish welfare society through most of their lives, and now they need the welfare society, and then we just throw them out. That is the wrong way to go, and that is why the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135120	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135122	Thank you. As far as I remember, the Social Democratic Party tends to say that one must provide in order to enjoy, so why would the Social Democrats accept that there are some foreigners who do not want to? One can, of course, discuss where the limit should be, whether it should be 3 years, 4 years, or 5 years, or whatever it may be, when one has the view of the Social Democrats that one has to be able to do something in order to enjoy at some point in life. But we do have people in this country who have been on public support for very, very many years, very, very many years. Why is that okay? Let us say that you could go in and withdraw the residence permit from them. You could also say that it was supposed to be ten years for the cause we wanted it to be less, but you could say that too, so ten years would that be a limit that was acceptable to the Social Democratic Party? Because at some point you have to say that now you have simply pulled so much money out of the Danish treasury, and then we have to separate ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135210	We are of the opinion that people who, for example, are: has come here in the 1970s and has worked in industry for 30 years and has then been fired in the crisis and smoked out of the benefit system and came on cash benefits, not suddenly having to lose their residence permit. They've been paying for this welfare society for decades. Too many have been granted a permanent residence permit in the past, and therefore too many now have a permanent residence permit, even though they have never been in employment. But we have made that right. The current rules for a permanent residence permit require, of course, that you have been in employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135241	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135243	But if there is one person you can find a lot of different examples, and I also recognize that as a matter of fact that has not contributed to the Danish society, which has perhaps been 10 years on public support and has found out how to cheat the system, there are some of them, and has hardly been in the labour market, would it be reasonable for the Social Democrats to see that they then took the residence permit from the person and said that then our paths must be separated? Or does the Social Democratic Party think it is fair that one can then just continue to be on public support in Denmark in, yes, until the day of retirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135321	I think that the discussion may be a little too general, because we need to discuss what kind of accommodation people are here on. So, are they here as refugees or family couples, or have they come here on some other residence arrangements? I am sorry, because the questioner cannot now come in and answer. I can only say that, in general terms, we are not in favour of people with a permanent residence permit being able to lose it because they have been on public support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135348	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135350	Thank you. I am, of course, pleased with the rapporteur's overall intention that, when you are in Denmark, you should of course contribute and work. As far as that line is concerned, one of our key instruments has been the benefits of integration. I can understand from the Social Democratic Party that a major shift has been made in the field of foreigners, but why is it that the Social Democrats will not take a clear position on what they want to do in relation to the key issue when it comes to getting more people into the labour market and fewer people into Denmark, namely the benefits of integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135428	This is because we do not believe that the integration benefit that has been established now has found the right balance when it comes to families with children. We would have liked the legislation to compensate some of the families of children, because we have the experience that there are too many of the children who grow up with too much deprivation. That is why we have the policy that if we win the elections and come into government, within the first year we will have an analysis of all the current benefits and hopefully have a broad majority in the Folketing behind a new system of benefits which, on the one hand, maintains the incentive that is also a great incentive for entering the labour market, and, on the other hand, ensures that there are no children growing up with the deprivation that some children in families on integration benefit are growing up with now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135521	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135522	After all, it has been a long time since we introduced the initial integration benefit, but we have adjusted it along the way, and we have been able to see what the effect has been, both in terms of getting people into work and in terms of slowing down its flow. As recently as a few weeks ago, we again adjusted the benefits of integration, and there, if you are so fiercely opposed to the way it works, you could have voted against it, or you could have voted in favour if you think that things are going well overall. However, as I remember, the Social Democrats abstained from voting yellow. Is it not to run away from its responsibilities as a political party not to take a position? Well, I guess you can vote yes or no if you think you can do better or you can't do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135613	We recognise that the benefits of integration have had a positive effect on employment. The extent of that effect can be discussed, but we recognise that it has an effect. We also recognise that it has an impact on the influx and it certainly weighs in one weight bowl to us, and that is also why we have said that we will not commit ourselves to roll back to the old levels of cash aid if we win the election. But we just want to maintain that it has also had an impact on some of the children, and that is why we say that if we win the elections, we will find the balance that we hope will be able to calm down on these rates, which have gone back and forth over the last 16 years. That is why we have said that we will neither roll them back nor retain the system in its present form. We want a system that takes account of some of the children who grow up in these families.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135705	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135708	Thank you. The rapporteur himself mentioned the example of the 1970s, the so-called migrant workers. I guess that's what they were talking about. And I have never been able to understand the starting point that, because you come to work, you are somehow entitled to benefits from the social welfare system. I think it should be the case that if you have come here and lost your job and fall out of this system, you have to go back to where you came from. I think that should also apply to permanent residence permits. I am one of those who believe that far too many permanent residence permits are being granted. And that is one way to solve a problem. It will be a problem in the years to come to ensure that the welfare state does not lift itself up because it believes that it can embrace the whole world. Because that's what happened today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135804	I have some doubts as to what the question was. But I can say that it was true for the people who came here from 1 April 1967 until the border was closed in November 1973 and who came here as immigrants that their residence permit was not conditional on them being able to maintain their jobs in the same way as it is today. And it was definitely a mistake. In fact, if you just stood at the border and had enough money in your pocket for a return ticket, you were let in and could look for work wherever you wanted. We would never introduce that today. But today we also have some experience that we did not have at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135842	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135844	Yes, but I just say that I think it is perfectly in order that if, as has been proposed, you do not have a job after three years, you lose your permanent residence permit. I think this is reasonable in the sense that people who come to this country should not necessarily stay here permanently. They may come here as immigrants to work, and when it is finished, they must go home again. That's what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426135920	But aren't we going to mess around a little too much in this? So either you have a temporary residence permit or you have a permanent residence permit. And then we can discuss the criteria for obtaining a permanent residence permit. We have supported this, for example. must be quite tough employment requirements. We think this is sensible, because we think it makes sense that people have contributed to the state in which they want a permanent stay. But that stay is not permanent if they can lose it because they become unemployed. So, I think it makes sense to have committed relatively serious crime before you lose your permanent residence permit. And if the Danish People's Party wants more people to lose their residence permit, then I think we need to discuss the criteria for obtaining the permanent residence permit and not suddenly start to make the permanent residence permit less permanent. Because then it loses its function.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426140011	With that, we thank Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426140019	Let me begin by saying that I agree with the idea behind the motion for a resolution, namely that those who come here from abroad, like the rest of us, must contribute to society as far as possible. However, there are a number of reasons why the Left cannot support the resolution as it stands here. Firstly, we are already making great demands on the self-sufficiency of foreigners who have come here, and I believe that this government has, if any, taken some significant and major steps to reform, among other things. I am thinking in particular of the whole process of integration. The benefits of integration, which at least, in relation to how the previous government handled the situation, are a whole new way of thinking. We are all aware of the impact of the integration service. It has contributed positively to a significantly lower asylum pressure in Denmark, the lowest for 9 years, and it has contributed significantly to the fact that we have got an incredible number of more people in work. Secondly, as the Minister said, we are already demanding self-reliance in cases involving, among other things: marriage reunification, in relation to permanent residence permit, etc. There will then be a number of cases in which the proposers' request for automatic withdrawal of a foreigner's residence permit cannot take place for legal reasons. It could, for example, be done. in relation to refugees who have come here and have taken up residence because their lives are at risk in their country of origin. Of course, legal considerations speak their own language, and so do morals. Finally, I can understand that the Ministry considers that the proposal here, if it were introduced, would have a relatively limited impact on the number of involvements, since, firstly, we already have low asylum pressure and, secondly, we have come really, very far in terms of getting people into work and, thirdly, there will be considerable groups which will simply not be affected by this proposal. So, although I agree with the intention, the government has come up with an incredible number of measures that have led to the historic arrival of many people and that historically few have come to this, which is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426140240	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. And then it's sir. Pelle Dragsted as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426140254	After all, we have another proposal from the Danish People's Party, which is basically aimed at putting refugees and family members together in a bad light, like those who come here to receive social benefits and care for all the rest of us. It is, of course, the case that there are already rules which mean that family reunification requires neither the resident spouse nor the family member to receive benefits, and it is according to the Act on Active Social Policy or the Act on Integration that the Minister has already mentioned that the family member may lose the residence permit and have to leave the country. After all, we have strict rules which are not supported by the Enhedslisten. They have severe consequences. If we look at the proposals of the Danish People's Party, we can say that it sounds of course a lot that you can go unemployed for three years. But we have just been through a financial crisis that lasted six or seven years, and of course, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, one can be someone who has worked here all his life, and then there will be a crisis, and then unemployment will rise to a few hundred thousand, and then one will be out of work, and of course one should not have taken away one's residence permit for that reason. You can also be affected by sickness; it can affect all of us. I also think that in these discussions the Danish People's Party, and this is also true in relation to existing legislation, ignores the consequences that will have for everyone else in the labour market when creating a group on the labour market for whom receiving benefits can lead to the loss of your residence permit. In other words, one gets a group on the labour market that is prepared to accept almost anything for not being unemployed; bad working conditions, dangerous environments. It is not beneficial for other employees in Denmark that there is such a group which really does not dare to oppose or dare to make demands. So I also believe that the Danish People's Party, in all its eagerness or claimed zeal to help the Danes, is going to create some conditions that are not for the benefit of ordinary employees in Denmark. As several people have also said, it is the case that in the case of refugees, it would be contrary to both conventions, but also generally humanity, to deprive a refugee of the residence permit because the person has received social benefits. After all, it is people that we have an obligation to protect against war and persecution. I mean, where they say, you've been out of work? Well, then we'll send you back to Assad's torture chambers. Well, that's just not gonna work, and I think most people can understand that. So Enhedslisten can't support this proposal. Of course, people have to work, and that's true, no matter what your ancestry is. If there are jobs and you have the skills and are not sick or for any other reason not, then of course you have to have a job. And that is why it is also gratifying that Berlingske can tell us today that one in three of the new jobs created in recent years has actually gone to people with a non-Western background. The Danish People's Party should be more pleased about this, I think. We must do everything we can, and it is, of course, a personal responsibility for those who are unemployed to look for a job. But it is also no secret that in Denmark it has been and probably still is harder to get a job when you have a name that sounds foreign. And that is where we have to look inwards, and employers and the public have to look inwards. But the intention that people should contribute to the community, no one can disagree. We can then disagree on how best to ensure it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426140638	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426140645	The motion for a resolution we are debating here is that the Danish People's Party wants to automatically withdraw the residence permit for foreigners who have received cash benefits or start-up aid for 3 years. In the Liberal Alliance, we welcome the fact that the government has in various ways increased the incentive for new refugees and foreigners to work and support themselves and their families as well as integrate. For us, it is a matter of course that foreigners who come here must support themselves. And, of course, there are already a great deal of demands for self-sufficiency in current legislation. It is also worth noting that in applying for a permanent residence permit there is a requirement that you must not have received public support for the last four years. The government has already done a lot for more foreigners to work, and this is at the ceiling on cash benefits, the integration allowance and the 225-hour rule. We also note that, in the light of Denmark's international commitments, the Ministry considers that the proposal here will have a very limited impact on the number of inclusions of residence permits. The Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal, although we fully agree with the authors in the premise that one should support oneself and one's family when one comes to Denmark. And the reason why we do not support the proposal is that the way it is set up here is simply too square. Part of the recipients of cash benefits are not ready for work. You can then discuss the number of people who are ready for work in relation to the job, but there are some of those who are on cash benefits who cannot work. And in fact, we do not think it is fair to send them out of the country by withdrawing their residence permit. So we agree with the premise and also think that it would be very good if, together with the Danish People's Party, we could make some suggestions and come closer to how we get more people into self-support. But we do not support this particular proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426140850	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426140852	It is, of course, to the right of the Liberal Alliance, because the Liberal Alliance has that view, I can hear here today and read to other places that we must have foreigners in Denmark who can support themselves. This is what this proposal proposes, namely that the foreigners who are in Denmark and who cannot support themselves should at some point have withdrawn the residence permit. We have said after three years, but you can find another limit, and you can also go in and exempt certain groups, if that is what is needed in order for Mrs Lindahl to be able to support the proposal. If it is, you go in and make some exceptions, for example. for certain groups of cash aid recipients, and it is said that it may not be three years, but that it is four years, will it be something that the Liberal Alliance will see itself in? For this, I have to understand, is the heartblood of the Liberal Alliance, that is, that you have to be able to support yourself and that only they can do what we want for Denmark. Well, that's kind of what we're going to do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426140941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426140942	If you talk about job-ready cash aid recipients, we in the Liberal Alliance are willing to go very far. I mean, those who can support themselves, but that just means that somehow you have to fence this. That is also why I say that we think this is too square in the way it is formulated, because 3 years can also be too much for those who are ready for work, but it can be too little if you are ill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426141013	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426141014	We can easily say that this applies to job-ready cash aid recipients and then say that they may have a year or something like that. We can do that. My question is simply: will the Liberal Alliance be prepared to correct the proposal so that, for example, we can do something about it? Says that this applies to cash benefits recipients who have been assessed to be job-ready, and then maybe it should be for a shorter period? Will we then be prepared to support the proposal of the Liberal Alliance? I agree that you are in government, but it may be that you free the parliamentary group, who knows? But if you are going to work inside the government for this to become government policy, so that in certain situations you have the opportunity to go in and say: then we take the residence permit because you are considered to be a job preparation, but you don't take a job, you don't support yourself, the state supports you, and we've given you a residence permit, you've got a fair chance, but now you have to get out, our paths have to stand out?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426141104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426141105	Politically, there is no doubt that this is where we in the Liberal Alliance stand. Now, of course, there is the international commitments that the Minister also mentioned, and that is where we have to acknowledge that it is also part of this proposal. It is not estimated that there will be a large number of people involved with the broad target group, and if we narrow the target group, how many residence permits will we really be able to include in this? However, we would very much like to discuss with the Danish People's Party how we can hit harder on people who can support themselves but who do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426141138	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426141145	Thank you. What we are discussing today in the Assembly Hall is the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution on the automatic withdrawal of the residence permit for foreigners who have received cash benefits or start-up aid for 3 years. I can start by saying straight away that the alternative does not support the proposal, and I also welcome the Radicals, who do not support the proposal either. The reason why the alternative does not support this proposal is that, firstly, there can be a great many reasons why people fleeing, who have come to Denmark and have been granted refugee status, are not in the labour market and cannot be, because they have either trauma or physical damage. It may also be that they lose their jobs, just as all sorts of other people may lose their jobs, and according to this proposal they will then go home if they have received cash benefits for 3 years. Secondly, we do not think that it would be conducive to integration, that is to say to have such a threat hanging over our heads, and it is not only the one who comes here who is responsible for integration; it is also we as a society and us as a Parliament who must ensure that good arrangements are made to help bring these people into the labour market. Fortunately, we have done so, among other things. the Igu scheme, which inter alia: helps to ensure that refugees have the opportunity to enter the labour market. In addition, as some have also mentioned, we cannot send people who need protection out of the country at all. They can't be repatriated. I also think that what the proposal says about children, i.e. children will also lose their residence permit, unless someone can take over them, if I may say so, cannot be in the best interests of the child. And I think that the Danish People's Party usually takes into account the best interests of the children, at least when it comes to ethnic Danish children. Once again, I think you're out on an exaggeration here. So again I think it is actually a real Udansk proposal, because Denmark is a country that helps others; Denmark is a country that takes good care of the citizens who live here. And I certainly don't think this proposal does.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426141423	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. Well, actually, we've gotten to Mr. Knox. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426141438	We in Denmark have a lot of spending on the provision of immigrants and refugees. The Ministry of Finance has calculated that if non-western immigrants were in work to the same extent as Danes, taxpayers would have saved approx. 17 billion. kr. in 2015. I recognise that since 2015 more people have come into work, but these are primarily men. This is not true of women. Many of them are on transfer income. This is not a fair priority for society's resources. It is money that could go to tax cuts, to health, to education and to the police. We must have more in work, not only because of the costs, but also because it is good for integration, including the integration of children, and for association with Danish society. I agree with the intention of the proposers. There must be a clear demand for self-reliance on immigrants and refugees. This is simply the starting point for being in Denmark. That is why we have introduced the integration benefit; that is why the Aliens Act is filled with employment requirements. And yes, we can still be better at getting immigrants into work, and we must also take tough measures. The specific sanction provided for in the proposal is that the residence permit should be automatically withdrawn for refugees and immigrants who have been on cash or start-up aid for three years. There are already many demands for employment in the Aliens Act, and this will not affect very many people. On the contrary, in most cases this would be contrary to our international obligations, which we must, of course, respect. I would very, very much like more immigrants and refugees to get to work, and I do not think it is right that taxpayers' crowns should go to finance a life outside society. That is why we must keep the integration benefit, which has already had a very positive effect on the employment of immigrants. Similarly, we must continue to impose stricter requirements on Danish education and employment in connection with residence permits. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution but look forward to its further consideration. At any rate, we would very much like to look at every conceivable tool that can be used to get more refugees and immigrants into employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426141711	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426141719	Thank you. First of all, I should like to comment on some of the comments that have been made. I note, of course, that several rapporteurs, both from the Liberal Alliance and from the Conservatives, and the Minister in such a way, state that they think that the Danish People's Party has a point, but that, unfortunately, the proposal cannot be supported anyway. Of course, I am sorry about that, so it is done. Then several speakers have said that this proposal would hit if it were adopted. It is not the opinion of the Danish People's Party that it will hit. But that is because our proposal would have to be applied, even if it was considered that it would be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. If you implemented it in the way it is here, then it would hit widely in society. Then it has also been mentioned that this should only apply to ethnic citizens. I can reject that. The proposal is not about ethnicity, it is about how long you have received public support, and then it is about what basis you have. Danish citizens are, of course, exempt from this proposal, and a Danish citizen will, moreover, be, regardless of the ethnicity of the Danish citizen concerned. So this is about how long you have contributed to society and whether you have contributed to society, and it is about what basis you have. Of course, there is a difference, on the one hand, between having a temporary residence permit or a permanent residence permit and, on the other hand, having a right of citizenship. When we have put forward this proposal, we have done so because we believe that Denmark is a unique country with a very special welfare system which guarantees citizens the possibility of fair economic and social conditions. That is what we refer to as the welfare society on a daily basis. And many generations of Danes have helped build our welfare societies. And the system is based on contributing to the economic foundations through taxes and charges, and vice versa, the citizen can get help and support if he or she needs it at some point, a completely reasonable and sensible system where everyone provides to be able to enjoy at some point, if necessary. The welfare system is based on redistribution such as: must ensure equal access to the hospital and the education system and other social benefits, and which must of course also guarantee a dignified old age when it is reached. The purpose of the welfare system is basically to safeguard the interests and security of the Danes. And it should not be regarded as an enlarged social office for the citizens of other countries; the welfare system is primarily made by Danes and Danes. Denmark is a rich country, but that does not mean that we have to act like other countries' social offices, no matter how much sympathy one can have for citizens from other countries where they then have different social and economic problems. The welfare system is under great and growing pressure from both internal and external factors, and the increasing expenditure on people with a particularly non-western background is highly worrying. Unfortunately, there are many foreigners who make a negative contribution to society. Of course, there are also some who make a positive contribution, but unfortunately we see time and again that there are calculations coming. And, most recently, the Ministry of Finance has calculated that non-western immigration represents an annual burden of 36 billion. kr. And a substantial part of this expenditure is simply due to the fact that many who have come from outside are on public support, which is unreasonable. There we in the Danish People's Party want to make it clear to those concerned that they cannot count on the lifelong support of the Danish state of them and their families. There must be limits. So if you have been granted a residence permit and you have been on cash assistance or start-up aid, i.e. integration benefit, for a period of 3 years, then we think you have got a fair chance, society has raised its hand to you and given an opportunity to be in Denmark. And if society has been at the mercy of a certain number of years, then we have to say that the residence permit is being withdrawn and then you have to return to your country of origin. Of course, I am sorry that there is no majority in favour of this at this stage, but I can assure you that the Danish People's Party will continue to work to tighten up the rules in this area, and it may well be that common sense will affect the other parties at some point. That usually happens, unfortunately, with a few years late.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426142129	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426142147	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426142207	Let me start by stating that criminal foreigners have nothing to do in Denmark, and I think that the proposers and I are very much in agreement on that. If a foreigner is using his/her stay in Denmark to commit crime, then he/she is simply not welcome here anymore. From day one, therefore, it has also been the Government's ambition to ensure that we have the best opportunities to expel criminal foreigners. That is also why, on 28 February this year, I tabled a legislative proposal to tighten up the rules on expulsion. The motion for a resolution, which we will then be discussing here today, is not specifically about expulsion, but about the entry ban imposed in connection with a expulsion judgment. In concrete terms, the authors propose that a foreigner who has been expelled from Denmark with an entry ban should not automatically be able to return to Denmark for a given period after the entry ban has expired. On the other hand, the person concerned must undergo a special application procedure. First of all, the proposal gives me an opportunity to explain briefly what is actually happening when a foreigner is expelled, because it is not the case that, when one reads this motion for a resolution, one might think that a foreigner who has been expelled from Denmark can only return once the entry ban, which has been announced for a period of time in connection with the expulsion, has expired. When a foreigner is expelled from Denmark today, his or her visa or residence permit will lapse and he or she shall not return to and reside in that country after the entry ban has expired until a new right to do so may be established. A deported foreigner therefore no longer has a residence in Denmark, even after the entry ban has expired. On the other hand, after the entry ban has expired, a deported foreigner is covered by the general rules for entry and residence in Denmark. This also means that the alien must apply for a residence permit anew if he or she wishes to return to Denmark. In this context, it follows from the rules in force that a foreigner cannot be granted a residence permit, for example. if the alien is to be considered as a threat to the security of the State or a serious threat to public policy or if there are serious grounds for believing that he or she has committed a serious non-political crime outside the country of refuge. So it is not the case that one can only return to Denmark if one has been expelled and one's entry ban has expired. On the contrary, it is important for me to stress that the same rules on entry and residence permits apply to all foreigners. And that also includes the so-called exclusion rules that I have just mentioned. Let me turn now to the concrete effect of an entry ban. As I have said, an entry ban means that the residence permit will lapse and that you are not allowed to enter and reside in Denmark without authorisation. If you have an entry ban in force, you must apply for entry and stay in Denmark regardless of where you come from. I understand the proposal here as a wish that everyone who is expelled should be banned forever for de facto, because that is the reality of this proposal. All foreigners deported by Denmark, who are subject to special exemption in order to be able to return to Denmark at any time, even if the alien also fulfils the conditions of entry and residence which apply today, must be permanently prohibited from entering Denmark. Indeed, I agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that, if you commit very serious crime, the expulsion must be seen as a real signal that the person who has been expelled is no longer wanted here in Denmark. But it is also true that it already follows from the rules in force. Today it is the case that the length of the sentence of liberty given in connection with a expulsion judgment automatically affects the duration of an entry ban. And the rules on entry bans are precisely designed to commit extremely serious crime and, in this context, you get an unconditional sentence of liberty of more than one year and six months, but then the starting point is that you are being expelled with an entry ban forever. At the same time, it is important to remember that it follows from the European Convention on Human Rights that expulsion must be proportionate to the right to private and family life. And in that assessment, the length of the entry ban also plays a role. We must, of course, constantly look at whether we can do further both to expel criminal foreigners who are staying in Denmark and to ensure that criminal foreigners do not enter Denmark and abuse their stay to commit crime. On 28 February of this year, therefore, I also tabled a draft law on stricter rules for the expulsion of criminal foreigners. The draft law, based on the recommendations made by the working group set up as part of gang package III, is intended to ensure that criminal aliens can be expelled as far as possible. One of the elements of the draft law and one of the points pointed out by the expulsion working party can help to ensure that there can be a greater degree of expulsion is to allow the courts to grant entry bans of shorter duration than otherwise resulting from the rules in force. It may sound strange at first sight when the aim is to keep criminal foreigners out of Denmark as far as possible, but we are proposing this, because we can therefore see that some of what the Court of Human Rights emphasizes in assessing whether expulsion is contrary to the right to private and family life is precisely the length of an entry ban. For the government, then, the matter is quite clear: we would rather a criminal foreigner be expelled from Denmark with an entry ban for a shorter period than the person concerned is not deported at all. So, in conclusion, I share the opinion of the authors of the motion that criminal foreigners have nothing to do in Denmark, and I would therefore also like to sign this proposal, and so that we can have the debate on this important subject. But I do not think the proposal is the right way to go. The government is constantly looking at whether there is any further we can do to keep criminal foreigners out of Denmark. That is why I have recently tabled a legislative proposal on stricter rules on the expulsion of criminal foreigners. And, of course, I hope that we can use the debate here today to confirm to each other that we must do everything we can in this area, and that we will, of course, also follow the area very, very closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143021	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143024	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. It is true that we have together done different things in order to make it easier to expel criminal foreigners or to make it easier for the courts, and that is a good thing indeed. It is no secret, as the Minister also mentioned, that in the Danish People's Party we would like to see that when you were deported you were deported, and then you could never come back again. That'd be the best part. But you could also look at whether you could find some sort of intermediate route, and that is the question whether the minister will be prepared to do so, for example. said: You are so deported, it is not forever, but you get an entry ban of x number of years; once the entry ban has expired, you can apply to return to Denmark as a student, as a family partner with someone in Denmark, or whatever it may be. Will the Minister then be prepared to examine whether there could be any additional requirements in relation to some who have previously received a expulsion from Denmark, so that the authorities could perhaps go in and assess what they have done in the country in which they have been, whether they may have been in employment there or something, and make an extra assessment of foreigners who have previously been expelled from Denmark, so that it is a little more difficult for them to come back?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143136	I mean, I would say that I think we always have a very good cooperation, and we have that in this area as well. But I'm just not sure this is the right way to go. I would rather try to go further along the path that we have already begun to take, and I think that the legislative proposal put forward there in February is part of that and I know it is not quite the answer to that, Mr President. Martin Henriksen now wants to see less crime for a shorter period of time, whereas today, for less serious crime, there is no deportment at all. Because I also think it sends a very clear signal to the people who commit crime in Denmark that there will no longer be such serious crime in order to be expelled, but that it will then be for a shorter period in which you could be allowed to stay here in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143238	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143240	But there is what I am saying: if we agree that we think that when people are expelled, the best thing would be if they remained deported, then the question is just that it may not be based on this proposal; it could also be based on the Minister's own thoughts, or if there were some clever people in the Ministry who had some good ideas; and it could also be that we in the Danish People's Party or in other parties had some other ideas about whether the Minister would be able to do something that would make it more difficult for foreigners who have received a expulsion sentence, to return to Denmark, not necessarily make it impossible, but at least just make it more difficult? Because one might well have a thought that if someone has received a expulsion from Denmark and then suddenly wants to come to Denmark as a foreign student, it would perhaps be very good that one could have a rejection option.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143323	Basically, I would like to discuss everything with the Danish People's Party, including the ideas that the Danish People's Party might have in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143331	We thank the Minister, there are no more brief comments. And we're gonna start the rapporteur's round, first it's sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143346	Today we are going to deal with this motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party, which wants people sentenced to unconditional temporary expulsion from Denmark not to be automatically able to return to Denmark when the sentence has been served. We have read the motion for a resolution and the comments of the authors of the motion for a resolution in the Social Democratic Party, and we therefore agree that expulsion sentences should not automatically be granted new access to Denmark, but that is what we already see in Article 32 of the Aliens Act. It is clear from this that a residence permit and a visa will be withdrawn by expulsion. Thus, Danish legislation is already such that expulsions are required to apply for a new residence permit, as requested by the proposers. We are very interested to hear whether we have misunderstood the proposers, but immediately we will reject the proposal on the grounds that the Aliens Act has been properly designed in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143440	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143441	What we want from the Danish People's Party is to say: you have been sentenced to expulsion and you have been banned for an X number of years; now the entry ban has been lifted, so you can in principle go back to Denmark and apply for a new residence permit. There we would like a new provision to be introduced into the legislation on aliens which allows the authorities to reject on the grounds that an exile has been granted from Denmark in the past. That is what we are proposing, and then the question is whether social democracy does not think it could be a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143512	At any rate, I think that sounds like an excellent discussion, in which we would very much like to take part. I cannot see whether we are encountering any conventions or anything else, but the principle that if you have committed serious crime in Denmark and are expelled in, for example, Denmark. Eight years, and after eight years, family reunification, must be included as part of the assessment of the application, whether or not a expulsion judgment has been given in the past, I think it is a sensible thing to discuss, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143545	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye and move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143553	For me, it is important to emphasise that criminal foreigners should be given clear information that they are not welcome in Denmark. In addition, we must of course have widespread control and knowledge of which people come to Denmark. As I see it, however, this resolution is not necessary at this stage. We already have the rules in force, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye summarized them very finely which means that an entry to Denmark will lapse upon possible expulsion. That is why I believe that a person cannot enter Denmark without the special authorisation already under the applicable law. At the end of February, the government also put forward legislative proposals for stricter rules on the expulsion of criminal foreigners. With this bill, we want expulsion to take place as far as possible. In other words, this is an area we're already focusing on. The government keeps an eye on whether we have the necessary control bodies. We will continue to do so, and that is why I am confident about the work that the Ministry has already started earlier this year, in February. That is why the Left does not support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143710	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143717	The Danish People's Party's list of proposals for tightening the law on foreigners seems endless. There is no working week in here without us discussing new or old proposals for tightening up from the Danish People's Party. And as the government and the Social Democratic Party and in some cases also the SF begin to support the Danish People's Party's proposal, there are new ones ready in the drawer or should I say the briefcase. The proposal we are dealing with here is about people who have been banned with a time limit. The Danish People's Party will make a special application procedure so that persons who have endured their temporary entry ban following a expulsion judgment must apply for the right to return to Denmark. First of all, in a rule of law, we usually pay tribute to the principle that once a judgment has been passed, the debt to society is paid. A time limit for an entry ban loses its meaning if the entry ban extends beyond the time limit. Secondly, it is not the case that all the citizens of the world have the right to visit Denmark. Denmark has been enforcing a strict visa policy for many years. If you are a national of a country from which asylum seekers are present in Denmark, your country is categorized in a special group of countries where there are very special reasons why the Danish authorities may issue you a visa. Unfortunately, we see examples that well-established citizens could be citizens of Iran, who otherwise have no reason to seek asylum; it may be that they have no quarrel with the clergy regime; it may be that they have a company or a well-paid job in Iran; nevertheless, they are refused an application to visit even close family in Denmark. The picture of Denmark's borders being open to everyone, as presented by the proposers in the comments on the proposal, and the picture that persons who have been expelled with a temporary entry ban can automatically return to Denmark after the entry ban has expired, have little to do with reality. If you are fortunate enough to have an EU passport, you will be able to enter Denmark as a starting point, but in relation to very large parts of the Third World there is a very strict Danish visa practice, as I said just now. That is why we do not think this tightening is necessary and the Enhedslisten cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426143949	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426144006	The motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party is about establishing a system to ensure that, after the expiry of an entry ban, you do not just have automatic access to Denmark. It is the clear position of the Liberal Alliance that criminal foreigners have nothing to do in Denmark. If you are expelled from Denmark, you will also automatically lose your residence in the country. This also means that foreigners are not just per person. automatically can return to Denmark and continue life in the country when the entry ban ends. Residence permits are not granted to foreigners who are considered to be a serious threat to public order, but this does not change the fact that the general rules on entry into Denmark, which apply to all others after the expulsion judgment has expired. However, the rules on entry have been tightened up in such a way that, if you have committed very serious crimes, you are permanently deported. In the Liberal Alliance, we are aware that it will conflict with Denmark's obligations in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights to deny people access to Denmark after the expiry of the entry ban, because that will mean that they have been expelled forever, and that will change the proportion of expulsion sentences. For these reasons, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426144125	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426144142	Thank you. The purpose of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party is that, if you obtain an unconditional expulsion judgment, you should not automatically have access to Denmark when the period of time has expired. This means that the rules will be changed for those whose judgment on the unconditional temporary expulsion of Denmark has been served, so that these people cannot return to Denmark but instead have to apply for it. As the Danish People's Party writes, the application must be rejected if there are reasons for it. There are no such objective criteria, examples or other things in the motion for a resolution, which, like others, indicate the reasons for this. In principle, we are in the alternative against this resolution, and we are because we have a principle in the Danish legal system, namely that once you have served your sentence, you have served your sentence. This means that not all sorts of extras should be added to the tail. And again, Dansk Folkeparti does up with Danish legal principles, i.e.. The whole foundation of our democracy, so we can't back this up. I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426144310	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426144320	Criminal aliens need to get out of here, so short it can be said. And there is virtually a consensus on this among many parties here in the Folketing. It is therefore gratifying that the government has put forward so many legislative proposals aimed at tightening up the rules on expulsion, so that more sentences contain expulsions. Too few people are being expelled to my liking, and if there is anything that gang members respect, then it is expulsion and not imprisonment, because there are more gangs. That is why we must continue to look at how we expel criminal foreigners until it is only the most serious reasons that cause us not to be expelled in the judgment. Now the concrete proposal is not about the rules on expulsion itself, but about the consequences of an entry ban. It is hoped that it will not be possible to return immediately to Denmark when the entry ban expires. However, it is already the case today that people are sentenced to expulsion, so that residence permits and visas lapse. One simply loses one's right of legal residence in Denmark, even after an entry ban has expired. Therefore, you must again apply for a stay in Denmark on equal terms with everyone else. What often affects a case of expulsion is Denmark's international obligations, including whether the expulsion is proportional to the crime. The duration of the entry ban also plays a role here. If the proposal really abolishes temporary entry bans, then expulsion would be a major legal interference with the legal status of the defendants. This will mean that the courts will have more difficulty in imposing expulsion on account of Denmark's international obligations. So although I would like to see more criminal foreigners deported per year. I fear that the proposal will lead to the courts judging fewer people for expulsion, and I certainly do not want that. Therefore, we do not support the proposal, but thank the proposers for highlighting this very important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426144543	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426144552	Thank you. It should not be a secret that we in the Danish People's Party would like to see that when a criminal alien was expelled, it was every time forever, so that if one had been convicted of crime and the court considered that one could be expelled, one should never have the opportunity to return to Denmark. Well, that's not quite the way the rules are today. Sometimes you're deported forever, and then you can't go back at any time. Sometimes you get a expulsion sentence, and then it is a temporary expulsion sentence, where you have a period of entry ban to Denmark, and during that period you are not allowed to go back, but when the period has expired, you can actually get back to Denmark. We wouldn't want to go there if we didn't. However, I recognise that the majority in here at Christiansborg is now as it is, and I also acknowledge that both the government and the Danish People's Party and, as such, other parties have tried several times to tighten up the expulsion rules. What we in the Danish People's Party are trying to achieve with this is that we see in here whether or not we can agree to do it in a new way and say: OK, the rules are such that in some cases you get a expulsion sentence and then an entry ban for a certain period of time. But what we in the Danish People's Party want to look at is what is possible if the entry ban falls away, because it doesn't apply anymore, and you so want to go back to Denmark and therefore apply to come in because you want to study, or because you want to join the family, or because you want to come in as someone who wants to take a job in Denmark; there are different residence arrangements. We will therefore look at whether it was not possible to introduce a new provision into the law on aliens, which allows the authorities to go in and assess whether this person would therefore be unfairly held against society because he has been sentenced to expulsion in Denmark in the past. And I very much hope that we will be able to examine whether this will be possible during the committee procedure. Of course it will be possible if there is a majority in favour of it, but we can examine different models for it. So it has to be the words, and then a modest desire that we can hopefully come together to look at if we can't just do it in certain situations... a little more difficult for criminal foreigners who have been expelled, to return to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426144800	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426144816	The debate is open. Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426144828	Thank you. With this weekend's fantastic citizenship day in fresh remembrance, it is especially nice to be here and to be able to congratulate the citizens who receive Danish citizenship with the bill. The bill includes 1,953 adults and some 472 children who are born with their parents when we press the buttons at third reading in a few weeks' time in this Chamber. It is something very special to get your Danish citizenship. The people who stand here on the bill have all had their lives and everyday life here in Denmark for many years. They have been met with a large number of demands we make, about self-reliance, the Danish language, legality, knowledge of our social institutions and respect for our democracy. And they have waited, even in some cases longer than we are quite proud of, because, unfortunately, in some cases the processing time is very long, although the application and the case seem uncomplicated. But now they are at the end of the road, their name is printed in the Lovtidende, and we are here today, and next spring they will be invited to a citizenship day here in the Folketing as the one we held on Sunday. It was a very special day, not only because the sun was shining, but also because record-breaking new citizens had agreed to come and be celebrated here in the Danish Parliament with a speech from President Pia Kjærsgaard, with cultural features and meeting with all of us in the political parties. At the same time, Sunday's day was a special anniversary, as the President of the Danish Parliament, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, also noted in her speech: it was the 100th anniversary of when the first women could be voted into the country's parliament. And that is precisely what gender equality is, after all, one of the Danish values that we value most, and that is one of the things that the new citizens have had to study more closely, for they have had to pass a test of citizenship which revolves around the things that we find to be a central common quantity for the Danish community, historically, culturally and socially. These are fundamental values and principles such as democracy, freedom of expression, equality, the independent rights of children, the rule of law and the primacy of science over faith. Dear new fellow citizens, now it is not only your right to be in charge of Denmark; it is also your duty to help bring your own experiences to our joint discussions and take an active part in society and the debate, the political debate that brought us to an end 100 years ago with the outdated view that women were unfit to take part in political life, and that the man, of course, speaks for the woman. It's not like this. You have your own value, you have your own right, all you 1,953 who are on the bill, and your children, and from the Social Democrats there must be a great congratulations on citizenship, and we can inform the Danish Parliament that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426145115	I do not think that was a brief comment. No. We'll move on, and then it'll be Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426145125	I have sometimes been asked the question of how I can at all urge myself to vote against a bill on citizenship and the many citizenships; what would the DF think of taking the many people hostage because the party wants to have significant restrictions on the conditions of citizenship and therefore votes no? The answer is that we cannot do anything else, because we owe it to Denmark and the Danes. Better a citizenship too little than a too much. We are greatly offended by the fact that a large majority, except for DF, has over time cast citizenships in grams, without one being fully aware of who it was that citizenship was given to, and without one being absolutely clear whether those people were Danish at all. They have acted as the cheerful giver who generously distributes in the east and west. One simply forgot that it is not one's own that one distributes, but that it happens on behalf of Denmark and the Danish people, and that there is therefore a bill to pay. The last many decades have seen massive immigration from the Middle East and from Muslim countries. It has created massive parallel societies, which exist in Sharia-like conditions, and where a completely different culture from the Danish one sets the agenda. All you have to do is go to the Gellerup plan or to Vollsmose to see for yourself that this is the case. One might ask, in the context of the ghetto negotiations, whether the formation of ghettos could have anything to do with religion. I would certainly say that they do, and it begins with the "I" and ends on the "lam". In addition, one might ask whether the ghetto formations have anything to do with the citizenships which the large majority of the Folketing has generously awarded. The fact is that parallel societies have been created by non-Danish citizens. In my view, Danish citizenship must be conditional on the taking into account of Denmark's thousand-year culture and history. Anyone who has done so meets the conditions for citizenship to me. In 2012, the party Islam put up for the municipal elections in Belgium. The party went to the polls to create a Belgian caliphate state with Sharia as ruling law, such as: includes gender-separated public transport. They had four elected then, and they are now running for office in several municipalities. Could this happen in Denmark? Yes, of course. Is it conceivable that at some point such a party will run for a parliamentary election where the demand is Sharia law and gender division and caliphate? Yes, of course. That is why we live in DF according to the precautionary rule that we vote no. We owe it to Denmark and the Danes. We will not take Denmark and the Danes hostage in this game; rather, citizenship too little than too much. We recognise, of course, that there have been marked tightenings and you can see that they have worked, and that is good. It's just not enough. This is a clear improvement, but before we get some really tightenings where we make sure that the people who become citizens really become Danish from the heart, we cannot vote in favour. As you know, we would like to have a ceiling of 1,000 in which it is a fundamental premise that those who acquire citizenship are close to our culture and have the will for integration. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426145537	There is one brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426145540	I am so sorry when I hear the rapporteur's speech in this area. This is not the first time I have heard a rather similar speech, and I can say that Thor is outside. I don't know if the audience can hear that, but it thundered and thundered, and I think that he ran across the sky in his thunder cart when he heard the speech, and thought: Oh, how sad it is to hear a speech that is so receptive to these people who have fought hard to obtain citizenship. I would have liked the rapporteur to have been present in the room that the Alternative loaned it was in the back of the room when we had citizenship day, where we asked people: What does citizenship mean to you? There were a lot of different answers, but one of the most common was: I finally get a sense of belonging, which is recognised in Denmark, now I am allowed to vote, now I feel seriously as part of society. That's a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426145647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426145654	Well, now I'm very surprised that Josephine Fock worships one of the old Norse gods, Thor. I thought it was the god of war, and perhaps it is not exactly the image that the alternative would have liked to have adopted. But I believe that what is crucial is the concern for Denmark and the Danes. Yeah, I mean that, and I know that we're in complete disagreement. In fact, I believe that there is a consideration for Danes and Denmark, and I do not think that is being taken, and that is why we are voting no. We stand by the responsibility that we have for the Denmark that we care about, and we therefore vote no.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426145736	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426145738	The thing about Thor was well caught. That was precisely ironic, and perhaps we should not be dealing with the rapporteur. But now the rapporteur is also very concerned about whether those who come to Denmark have a Christian culture. Is it a unanimous parliamentary group in the Danish People's Party that agrees to say no to this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426145801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426145802	I'd say, you too. I do not think the rapporteur really heard the irony in my opening comment. But yes, because I am the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426145815	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426145835	Today I have been allowed to deal with this proposal on behalf of the Left's native-right rapporteur, Jan E. Jørgensen, and I should also like to congratulate him on this and congratulate all the new Danish citizens. Of course, I also bite that it roars and plunges into the background and that nature can be heard, and that is always the way it has been for many thousands of years that when it does, you can put it out in favor of what you say or to the disadvantage of what the others say. That is what we saw here today. Today is an important day for a lot of people, exactly for 1,953 adults and 472 children. We are fulfilling their wish to become Danish citizens. It is the greatest gift Denmark can give to anyone, and it is in my optics the greatest gift anyone can receive. But they have certainly not come to sleep there. They've all worked hard to get their name on this bill. To become a Danish citizen requires that you meet a wide range of requirements, including: in relation to language, self-reliance and knowledge of Denmark and Danish history. And that is the way it should be, and I hope it will lead, as Mr. Christian Langballe mentioned, also becoming Danish in the heart. Otherwise, citizenship doesn't make much sense. We must ensure that Denmark and Danish citizenship are for those who can and will our country, our society, our cultural heritage and everything we are and have inherited. I am delighted that so many people want to share the joys and rights of Danish citizenship and hope that they also understand that they also share duties with the rest of us. Once again congratulations to the new citizens. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150028	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150031	In addition to the fact that I will of course take this opportunity to express my complete agreement with Mr. Christian Langballe's excellent rapporteur's speech, would I like to ask the Left whether that really is the view of the Left because there are some of these people who have dual citizenship, it has been possible to be loyal to two countries? Shouldn't it be that your loyalty lies in one place, in one country?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150101	I don't really think it's that hard to be loyal to two countries. I think you can have many obligations and things to which you are loyal, but at least it is crucial that, when you are here and you become a citizen here, you show a deep respect and loyalty to the society in which you have ended up. If you don't, I'm convinced in my heart that we're best off getting a divorce again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150127	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150130	Can we then be loyal to three countries or four countries? You have to be able to do that. That must be the view of the Left. I just need to understand. For a long time the Left believed that they were opposed to dual citizenship. I also believe that the argument which the Danish People's Party has had and which we still have in the Danish People's Party, namely that you are loyal to one country, that you have at home in one place. You can have all kinds of stories in your luggage, that's fair enough, and your parents and yourself can come from other places, and it does, of course, make you feel like a human being. That's fair enough, too. But in the end, your loyalty must lie in one place. Then the Left says it can be in two places. The question is: can it also be located in three places and in four places? And if it can't, why is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150215	To return to what I tried to suggest before, the loyalty you have, if there is a conflict between the things you feel loyal to, should be where you now have your citizenship, and that must be the starting point for the way you act as a citizen of this society. If you don't do it and don't feel it's loyalty to this society, it's been a mistake to give him citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150241	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150243	I would like to ask the rapporteur: are there too many citizenships?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150254	The number of citizenships matters in my optics. You can't just give them away like that. Now we are on a number that is lower than what we have seen in the past, and personally I would like to see it even lower. So my answer must be that it is at the top of the list, but we have followed the rules in this area, and we must, of course, respect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150322	The questioner would like to speak again, I see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150326	The reason why I am asking is that if the rapporteur thinks that too many citizenships are given, then surely it must also be on the basis of some conviction that the people who give citizenship are not entirely sure that they are actually Danish. Am I right in that premise? And if I am right in that premise, why does the Left always vote consistently for citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150358	Sir. Christian Langballe is not right in that premise. The premiss is that the number matters. We cannot receive an unlimited number of people to this country without changing into something other than what we are today. We're nowhere near that today. That is why the Left is also voting for this with the greatest of course. However, I recognise that the number matters, and if the number was significantly higher, we would also have a different attitude towards it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150428	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150430	Thank you. I am a little concerned that the rapporteur says that it is at the top of the list. Now I do not know whether the rapporteur was present on the day of citizenship, but one of the things that I also attached to all the people I spoke to was that some of them have been living in Denmark for 20 and 30 years. Is it suddenly a problem that they get citizenship? And if you look at the list here of the nationalities of the people who have acquired citizenship, then they come from a large number of different countries. There are, among other things: a sea of Germans who have acquired Danish citizenship. So what is it that makes the rapporteur say that it is at the top of the list?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150512-2	It was more a personal comment that I believe that granting someone citizenship is such a great gift to them and such a huge potential change to them that we are that it is something that we should do very carefully. When it is on the high end, therefore, it is within something I can accept, but I am trying to send a signal that I do not think it should be much higher than where we are now. I'd be really sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150537	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150538	That means that it also applies if the people who apply for citizenship live up to the things we demand of them. If they have lived here for very, very many years and they pass the birth test and they can Danish and have work and everything we want, does the number still matter to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150600	Yeah, of course it does. If, with the rules that are now in force, there were significantly more people coming to Denmark, then I think I would work to look at the rules again to get them further tightened.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150612	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150617	Thank you for that, President. First of all, congratulations to the people whose names now appear on the bill we are discussing today to the people who become Danish citizens. A lot of them have lived here all their lives or at least for a very, very many years, and a lot of them have really worked hard to get citizenship. There should be no doubt that we in the Group of the European People's Party believe that the rules that apply today in order to obtain citizenship are far too strict. We would like more people living in this country and having their lives here to become full members of the community. After all, we can hear from the debate we have just had with the rapporteur of the Left and also earlier with the Danish People's Party that it seems to some parties that it is an end in itself that there are fewer people who get Danish citizenship. I do not share that approach and I do not really understand it either. For us, it is an independent goal that the people who live here in Denmark and have their lives here integrate and become part of Denmark and thus become full members of the community, as one does when one acquires Danish citizenship. We certainly have no wish that there should be a large group of people living here in Denmark who are not Danish citizens and who cannot participate on an equal footing with everyone else, for example. in relation to voting in parliamentary elections. On the contrary, I think it is fantastic if as many people as possible who live and live here in Denmark are full members and do what they can to become full members of the community. Moreover, I believe that this is not only for the benefit of the individual who acquires citizenship; it is also for the benefit and benefit of society as a whole that one is included and that one is integrated. Sometimes some people ask: why is citizenship really important? For many, their residence permit is not the subject of discussion. They've got it all figured out. It's about something else. It's not just about whether you can live here or not. But why is this so important? At least it is for three reasons. One is about the feeling of belonging. Some of the colleagues before me mentioned that we have just had citizenship day in here at Christiansborg on Sunday, where those who have acquired citizenship in the last year could visit. And here it is very clear that exactly the feeling of being recognised as part of the community means a great deal to those people who get citizenship. I can understand that, because it is clear that you want to belong to the community of the country in which you live. The second reason why citizenship is important is that it provides the opportunity to vote in parliamentary elections and participate fully in Danish democracy. The third reason, of course, is that it allows for travel. We often hear about young people, for example. can be prevented from going on a study trip with their upper secondary school class or can not go on an exchange because they do not have a Danish passport, and thus there are a number of countries for which they cannot obtain a visa. So, in the end, I would like to congratulate the people who now have citizenship. I wish more people could follow them, and I would, for example, follow them. wishing that children born in Denmark could automatically acquire a Danish citizenship or at least got it within a few years. But congratulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426150959	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151005	I would like to begin by congratulating all those who become Danish citizens with this bill. It is a huge privilege to become a Danish citizen and it is difficult to stay. But congratulations to both Claudia, Hassan, Anna, James, David and all of you who from today can call you Danish citizens. With citizenship comes both the obligation to speak Danish, that you have knowledge of the Danes, that you are loyal to the Constitution, and that you comply with Danish legislation. On the other hand, citizenship includes special rights, including, inter alia: the right to participate in democracy by voting. I have the hope that the 1,953 people and the 472 children who are born today will engage and take an active part in the community we have together in Denmark. It is marked by values such as freedom, equality and trust, and I hope for your own, but also for the community's sake, that you will take part in it. In the Liberal Alliance, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151119	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151121	Thank you. Mrs Laura Lindahl spoke of loyalty, and I would like to follow up on the question which I also put to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Mads Fuglede, and which is about whether the Liberal Alliance believes that one can be loyal to several countries. Does Mrs Laura Lindahl think that you can be? Are there any limits to how many countries you can be loyal to? Should we spread it out that we may also have triple or quadruple citizenship, or how does the Liberal Alliance view it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151155	The Liberal Alliance is in favour of dual citizenship and also supported it. But I would say that I also think there are nuances in it. Personally, I see no problem at all in that if your mother is a Norwegian and your father is a Dane, you feel as much Norwegian as you feel Danish. However, this may also be linked to the fact that we share a cultural community with Norway. So it is not because I believe that you can feel as Danish as anything else if the cultural communities are not so basically similar to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151229	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151230	Thank you for that answer. Are there any countries which Mrs Laura Lindahl believes should not be given the possibility of dual citizenship in relation to, perhaps because there are too many cultural differences? The Danish People's Party does not mean that you should have dual citizenship, but now I am interested in hearing Mrs Lindahl's opinion. Are there any countries where Mrs Laura Lindahl believes that dual citizenship should not be allowed, because there we are simply too different culturally?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151300	I should like to make it clear that the Liberal Alliance is in favour of dual citizenship in general. However, I do not think that there is anything wrong with looking at the fact that there were some countries where we share the cultural community and that perhaps that was primarily where they allowed it. That would be my own personal opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151321	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151323	I hardly know what to say, but I think that there are sometimes quite a lot of toastings about the distribution of citizenship. This is actually a bit surprising to me, because are you sure that the people you give citizenship are actually Danish? That was the discussion I had with the rapporteur for the alternative. I think the strange thing in this discussion is that no one is asking: do we have a responsibility for Denmark and for the Danes? Those citizens are actually being incorporated into a people, but what if they don't want anything to do with what people do and live in a parallel society? At least we have a huge problem, and we can see that we do. You just have to understand how reality works, instead of fiddling around on that distant planet as the alternative does. One really only needs to know what the reality is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151431	I have some doubts as to what the question is. But I do agree with Mr. Christian Langballe in that it is vital that the people we give citizenship are Danish. We are trying to ensure this by putting the bar high and by making very strict demands on what it takes to have citizenship. That is why the rapporteur also knows that we would very much like to see further austerity, because we do not believe that we are in the end. In relation to the proposal made by the Radical Left that you should have citizenship as an examination gift when you leave primary school, we are not there at all. We think it should be really, really difficult to obtain citizenship, and that is because we want to raise the bar, so we are sure that those who get it are actually also some who are Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151520	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151521	But the starting point for what I am saying is the question of where the concern lies. Is that the concern for Denmark and the Danes? Or should we just give citizenship? I mean, I think that's an important point, because when I don't give citizenship, it's really not to bother anyone. I just mean that I have the education here in Parliament because there are so many who just say yes, it's fine and all sorts of other things to say that it actually has some consequences for Denmark and the Danes. That is what I am marking in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151557	Yes, I totally agree. The concern for me and for the Liberal Alliance is also for Denmark and the Danes, the future of Denmark and the values we share here. That is clearly the consideration we are taking, and that is also why we are interested in tightening up further in this area, because we believe that it should be extremely difficult to obtain Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151619	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl, and then we will move on to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151626	Thank you. I would very much like to start by congratulating all those who have acquired citizenship, and on the bill that we are dealing with here there are 1,953 people and some 472 children who have citizenship with their parents. I think it is a good day for Denmark. It's a good day for Denmark that we've given these people citizenship. This means that they will now finally have the same rights as the rest of us. That means they can vote. This means that they can fully participate in our community. I had the pleasure of participating in the citizenship day on Sunday, and fortunately I have had the pleasure of being able to do so before. Last Sunday there were 3,300 people present, I think. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, who is the chairman of the Danish Parliament and who is also a member of the Danish People's Party, warmly welcomed the new Danes. She gave a very good speech, where she embraced everyone and told us precisely that now one is a full member of Danish society and gets the same rights and duties as all of us. She also mentioned in her speech that it was the 100th anniversary of the first woman in the Folketing, and there is also reason to celebrate that. It was well thought that she took it along, because it means something to us Danes that equality and being able to take part in democracy is a very important and crucial foundation when you become a Danish citizen. I had the pleasure of being in this room next to where the alternative was. We had asked people to write what citizenship meant to them. It was very, very touching. There were very many people who have lived in Denmark for many years, who had now finally acquired citizenship, and there was the same experience that now became the full members of Danish society. Now they had the opportunity to vote, there was recognition, there was equality, there was being a part of the community, and all the people were really, really happy. So, in the alternative, of course, we support and warmly welcome these many people who acquire citizenship. And I should also like to welcome the Radicals and say that, of course, they also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151925	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426151940	Thank you for that, President. I shall be very brief, because a lot of nice words have already been said on today's occasion. So I would like to begin by just saying: hearty congratulations to 1,953 new Danes, warmly welcome. The way to get your name on the bill on the communication of Danish citizenship is long and also difficult. In addition to a citizenship test, which many Danes often find difficult to pass, the application must also be made via the police and then to the Minister of Justice, and eventually it ends here in the Assembly Hall, where we then vote on the bill. I'm thinking maybe there's a lot of people out there who don't actually know how hard it is. But the 1,953 new citizens who can now finally call themselves Danish know that. I think they have earned it so much. I hope you enjoy citizenship and will continue to participate actively in society. Once again, congratulations! And, of course, the SF will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426152042	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426152052	Honestly, I feel ambivalent about this. On the one hand, I believe that those who are loyal to Denmark, those who contribute to Danish society, those who are positive, those who love Denmark, deserve citizenship. I met several of them here on Sunday on citizenship day, and it was a nice feeling for many of them and congratulations on it. On the other hand, I feel bad that in this package, we also give citizenship to dark Citizenship is not a legal requirement you have, but it's a gift we give to people who contribute to this society. That is why I have long been advocating that we use a different method of screening so that we can get rid of caliphate supporters. I don't want them to have citizenship. For me, it is not enough for them to meet the formal criteria. I think it is important that people who are loyal to other social models, the caliphate, etc., should not have citizenship. Types like the bookseller from Brønshøj should not have citizenship. I know that Special Branch is taking out some of them, but they are the ones that pose an immediate security threat. But there are also a number of caliphate and democracy haters who do not pose an immediate threat to citizenship, and I feel very bad that they are among them. So all in all, I'm ambivalent. Congratulations to those who want Denmark no problems there, we should embrace them. But we must have a different method, because caliphateists and democracy-haters must not have citizenship in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426152313	A brief comment from Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426152315	I am, in fact, pleased with the speech because it is truthful, it is realistic in that we are in a situation in which we have been granting citizenship for years to people who, as the rapporteur put it, are Islamic blacks. And that is also why we have chosen to vote 'no'. Well, I'd say, better one too little than one too much. That is the starting point. Where the balance is going is, of course, that if we on the part of the Folketing refuse to grant citizenship, the people can apply again. But if we have first granted citizenship, then the table will catch the table and then we will find ourselves in the situation that we are helping to build parallel societies of Danish citizens who are not Danish at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426152420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426152421	Well, I agree that the table captures, and that's also why I feel ambivalent about it. So, I would like those who are on that list and who contribute and show community mind and loyalty to Denmark and Danish society to have it. If we say no to a few of them, they won't get it. At the same time, however, we grant citizenship to types who are members of Hizb ut-Tahir. Members of Hizb ut-Tahir may also, in principle, obtain citizenship without difficulty under the rules in force if they have not committed crime or do not constitute an immediate security threat. But they hate Denmark, they hate Danish democracy, they hate the Danish constitution, and therefore they should not have it. And that is why I hope that the Danish People's Party supports a different screening method, so that in future we interview people, and if the overall picture of people who are going to have citizenship is that they express their loyalty to another social model, they should not have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426152539	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426152540	Well, of course we're backing up, so I think it's the government that's gonna decide where it's gonna end up. In the Danish People's Party we are being kissed and there is such a howling out of us that we allow ourselves to vote against citizenship, but I would actually like to turn it around and say: why do you allow yourself to vote yes if you have that knowledge and I do not know whether the rapporteur will respond to the fact that there are actually Islamist darkmen on the proposal? Because then I think it would be better to vote no.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426152619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426152620	Well, it's hard to point them out... those who are on the list... and say it's that and that. I would then have tabled amendments. But we haven't met all of them. We have dealt with their formal applications. And that's also why I would like to see another method... that, like when you go to the theory test, talk to people, look at people and ask what they think of our social model. And if they don't like it, we shouldn't reward them with citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426152658	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426152711	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426152743	With this motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution, i.e. The Social Democracy, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party, to instruct the government to initiate an impartial investigation into two things. First, my press release of 10 February 2016 on separate accommodation in the asylum system for underage girls from their older spouse or partner, and secondly, the subsequent administration of the specific cases. I would like to state straight away that, in the view of the government, there is no objective basis for initiating such an independent investigation, and the government cannot therefore support the proposal. It is now more than six months since we had the last consultation on the matter, it was in October last year when the proposers asked about the progress of my press release of February 2016. A total of three consultations had taken place in advance. I have answered some 200 questions after the Danish Parliament Ombudsman made his final statement on my press release in March 2017. I have taken note of the Ombudsman's serious criticism and I have also said that there were things in this case that we should have done differently. At no point, however, has anything come out that proves or merely makes it probable that I should have wanted or even tried to implement an illegal practice in which the authorities separated couples in violation of our international obligations. The National Council for Foreign Affairs, which is responsible for these matters, has also made it clear to the Danish Parliament that an assessment of the circumstances of the individual case has always been made. So, after the Ombudsman's criticism, there is simply nothing left to be done about this case. The reality is that the specific cases have always been the subject of an individual assessment, and I knew this from the outset. I think the authors themselves are very well aware of this. But I can see that when one has blown up so much, talked about ministerial responsibility and has spent so much of the Parliament's time and effort on a political crusade against me, the political logic suggests that at some point the request for a commission of inquiry is being pulled out of the hidings. If you want to spend 20-30 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. If, at some point, there is such an investigation, I can say that I will take it with serenity. If there was a smoking gun in this case, after the Ombudsman has received all the relevant documents in the case, and after I have answered about 200 questions and participated in 3 consultations, though of course under the responsibility of the Danish Parliament, then probably the smoke had already been seen. But there is no such thing, and the millions of kroner for a Commission study will do nothing but feed the lawyers responsible for carrying out such a study. The matter is as it is, no more and no less. That is why I do not think that the majority of the Danish Parliament should contribute further to the fact that the political agenda of the proposers, which we are trying to cover up with a layer of law, should cost more time and money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153200	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153205	Thank you. I am, of course, one of those who has been in the consultations, and I think it is a pity if the Minister sees this as a personal crusade against the Minister. It is, of course, a matter of the responsibility of the minister, and it has nothing to do with the person at all. After all, we need to be sure that a minister is telling the truth. We, as Parliament, must have the information we are asking for, and that is what has been difficult in this matter. It has been difficult to find out exactly what was in the lines that the Minister himself explained that the Minister took out of the press release. It has been difficult to get answers to questions. In the answers to some of the questions, it was stated that the Minister would explain this at the conciliation meeting, and this did not happen. So you fail when you sit in the opposition and suspect that you have not received all the information.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153310	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153312	It was, in fact, more of a comment, and I can hardly do so from the point of view of Mrs Josephine Fock's feeling that she has not been given an answer to the questions she has asked. I can at least say that I have done my utmost to try to answer the questions put by Mrs Josephine Fock, and that has indeed been many, it has to be said. I have answered some 200 questions; I have spent several hours, I think it is easy to say, in consultation; there has been page-up and page-down on this; the Ombudsman has had all the material for review. The fact that Mrs Josephine Fock has not been satisfied with any of the questions she may have raised, I can hardly do any more about it. And I have to say clearly that I simply do not think there is anything more to add to this matter now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153408	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153410	Well, then, I would like to ask the Minister what was in the lines that the Minister removed from the press release.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153417	Well, I simply have nothing more to add now. Mrs Josephine Fock has been given answers to those points as far as we can go to give Mrs Josephine Fock an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153430	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. We are embarking on the rapporteur's round, and that is first Mr President. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153448	Thank you for the floor. As far as I remember, there have been three, four consultations on the matter and several of the consultations have lasted for several hours and several hundred written questions have been answered which have been sent to the Folketing. The Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration has been through the process thoroughly, and the Danish Parliamentary Ombudsman has also made a statement on the progress and the Minister's handling of the matter, etc. From the point of view of the Danish People's Party, it all speaks against a study. Besides that, we don't think it's so terribly interesting again. The Danish People's Party believes, moreover, that one should be very careful about spending millions of kroner on a large study, and the Danish People's Party is not ready to spend what is likely to be a two-digit million amount, which we risk coming up with, and certainly not on a study that we basically do not see need for. I sense that the background to this proposal is a desire to criticise the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Well, we are glad to see the Minister on the part of the Danish People's Party, because we are of the opinion that, as you know, the Minister speaks too much and tightens too little. So we have no problem criticising the Minister, but we now think it should be for the right things. Indeed, we would much rather discuss the political content and the political differences rather than beat each other upside down with various studies. In this particular case, therefore, we do not think that there is any reason to start a major study, which is why we are voting against the proposal. Finally, I would like to say that I am surprised that the Social Democratic Party is putting so much effort into this, because I really think it would be better if the Social Democratic Party were to try to give the impression that they would like to help tighten asylum policy and immigration policy, etc., if they were to use their strength instead, because I think that is what many voters and many Danes expect. So let us use our energies to see if we cannot agree to tighten up the situation in asylum centres, asylum policy and immigration policy in general rather than this nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153712	There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153714	It was the rapporteur's last comment on the Social Democratic Party that made me stand up, and what I would like to ask the rapporteur is: does that mean that pursuing a political objective such as this one? As in this case, is the legislation on asylum and integration being tightened above all? So it doesn't matter whether the Minister doesn't comply with the law or the Folketing doesn't get the correct questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153750	To implement the necessary tightening of asylum and immigration policies and many have been implemented, but we do not think it is enough, very important. But, of course, you have to respect the laws and the constitution of the country, that is clear. And then we are so well-placed here in the legislature that we are the ones who make the laws of the country. And there the Danish People's Party would rather spend the time discussing how we can then organise the legislation in such a way that we can, for example, make sure that there are no child brides at the country's asylum centres. Something has been done there, but in our view not enough has been done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153824	Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153827	I think the rapporteur should make this clearer. I think the rapporteur should take a position on what it really is. So, is it about tightening asylum policy, and then it doesn't matter how much to comply with the law? Or is it that we must always be absolutely sure that a minister is telling the truth? And why is it that the Danish People's Party does not fully support that agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153854	However, the agenda of the left has been a concept of the "social democracy" and therefore I wondered why the Social Democrats have gone too far to prevent the phenomenon of child bride at Danish asylum centres. That's what's been behind it. That is certainly my opinion, and then you can agree or disagree with it. And this is basically a political agenda, and I just think that should be said more honestly. I understand that the alternative is on that agenda, but I cannot understand why the Social Democrats are on that agenda. There we just have another political agenda in the Danish People's Party. And there have been many consultations and many explanations and many answers and many questions. And we have no need to do more about that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153934	Then when will to the end of it. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426153944	Thank you for the floor, President. This is not the first time that this matter has been discussed, to put it mildly. The Minister has been in many long consultations and has explained the progress and a lot of written questions have been answered. Against this background, I think we can say quite reasonably that all the nuances have been elucidated. Having said that, I also have to stress that for us in the Left it has been important to put as restrictive a line as possible when it comes to these girls who come to Denmark as one half of a marriage. We have been very concerned about protecting girls, above all, because it is basically about children, so that no one is kept in a marriage or a relationship against their will. Therefore, the previous practice is upside down, so the starting point today is that a young girl is not accommodated with her older spouse or partner. This was not the case earlier, if the girl was older than 15 years of age, and I think it is the right starting point, and I am sure no one in this room thinks otherwise. Now the authors of the motion for a resolution want to turn the matter over again in the form of an independent inquiry. And they do so in the light of the criticisms made by the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament against the way the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has handled the process, which has also been the subject of incredibly long hours of consultation and written questions. So the Minister has already taken up this criticism and acted upon it. The Minister has taken care to deepen the problems and has subsequently put a clear political line on how similar matters should be dealt with in the future. Against this background, we do not believe that it is a reasonable use of taxpayers' money to take a new round of independent investigation. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154145	There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154147	Thank you. After all, we have heard in the media earlier that a former MP from the Left, Jakob Engel-Schmidt, has told us that he has received an e-mail out loud, namely an e-mail from 9 February 2016, explaining the Ministry's deliberations on the legality of separating the young asylum couples. After all, we have repeatedly asked whether the Folketing can also see that e-mail. But the Ministry has refused. What does the rapporteur think about a member of parliament being read out an e-mail, but that the rest of the Folketing cannot access this e-mail, which is a key document in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154231	I don't know the e-mail in question. I cannot speak on behalf of one of my former colleagues. And I haven't seen that e-mail, so I can't say anything intelligent about it. What Mrs Stine Brix is asking is a third-hand report on something I have not been part of. If you think you have questions for members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration, you have to put it to them instead of raising it in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154258	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154259	I know that question has been asked many times, but the Minister does not want to give that e-mail. The rapporteur claims that this matter has been fully clarified, and when I ask the rapporteur about it, it is because it is just an example of a central document that is not being extradited. There are also other examples, including the notes in the Ministry of Justice, of the contacts that have been made. There are several key documents in this case to which the Folketing cannot access. That is precisely why we are discussing the possibility of an independent investigation today. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur from the Left that a former member of parliament tells him that he has read a document which others in the Folketing cannot have access to. What do you think of that practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154342	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154342-2	I think a number of things about a practice which has to do with one rapporteur asking another rapporteur what a third rapporteur has supposedly seen at a fourth time. I have some fairly clear views on this: I do not think that is serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154400	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154402	Thank you. One is to be politically divided. I think we are allowed to be, and I also know that the rapporteur agrees with something else if you do not give the Parliament the information that is being asked. I assume that the rapporteur agrees that the Danish Parliament must have correct information and must have the information requested. What has been the problem in this case is that we have not got it. A little spin has also been made from the Left that it is a personal crusade which we also heard the Minister use. That's not what this is all about. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. I do not know in concrete terms what lines the Minister removes in the press release which is sent out as an instruction, one is sitting back as an opposition and cannot move forward because the Minister simply can choose to say: I do not want to give that message to the Danish Parliament. Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154508	It would be a wonderful world we lived in if we had full information about everything all the time and at all times. We haven't, among other things. because we have a division of power in Denmark, and I support it in this way. I fully agree with the rapporteur that political disagreement is entirely legitimate, and that is why I am actually a little sad when the rapporteur says that when we express an opinion on this witch hunt, as I believe it has been, on the Minister, it is a spin. No, that is just how we see it. We see it this way when you force a minister to sit hour after hour in a conciliation where it is relatively clear that you are going after the man and not the ball.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154555	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154556	Now it's a female minister we have. But there is no question that we have asked for information about everything and that we should have information at all times. It is a question of some young people having really suffered from this legislation that has been made until the Ombudsman expressed his criticism and said that there has been an illegal procedure. I hope that the rapporteur is aware of this, in other words that it has had some personal consequences for some people. That is why it is a problem that the Minister will not hand over the material we are asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154635	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154636	I am fully aware that this is a female minister we have. When you use an expression like going after the man and not after the ball, it is a saying, just as the term President does not conceal that the person in question is necessarily a man or like a boogeyman, which is something you have in your nose, nor is the name of a boogeywoman. Having said that, I fully agree that those concerned are in a very, very serious situation, and that is actually what I was trying to stress in my rapporteur's speech, namely that what has been our starting point is to change that practice. There can be numerous situations where it can be said that it is fair enough that young people are together, even if one is not of age, but the starting point must be another. We think this is reasonable and that is why I think that the situation before this change was even more serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154718	Thanks to the rapporteur and the sayings also went in relation to the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament. So it was okay. Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426154728	Thank you. We are dealing with an extremely serious matter. In a democracy, we must be able to rely on ministers to tell the truth and we must be able to rely on ministers to comply with the law. These are two guiding principles of the law on ministerial accountability. In this case, we know that the law has not been observed. We know this from the Ombudsman, and we know that the Minister's many changing explanations cannot all be true. It is absolutely crucial that we get to the bottom of this matter and have a responsibility placed. It must be clear both now and in the future that ministers must govern on the basis of existing law and that ministers must speak the truth. The case is about the decision of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration to exempt all asylum seekers who were either under 18 years of age. This has had major consequences for some of the young couples, where there was no reason to separate them and who were already in a very vulnerable and pressured situation. It is a matter which is undoubtedly marked by various explanations from the Minister. Following the Ombudsman's very harsh criticism that the Minister gave an illegal instruction, the Minister of Politiken explained on 21 May 2017 that the officials of her ministry had considered the instruction to be legal. Then the Minister was in consultation on 1 June 2017, where she changed the explanation. Now it was a press release from the Minister, whose legality was not assessed by the officials, but it was not administered illegally, the Minister maintained. This explanation lasted for 3 weeks until 23 June 2017, when the Minister was again in consultation. 57 minutes into the conciliation procedure, after many questions from the five parties behind the resolution we are debating today, the Minister acknowledged that not all were legally administered. The separated married couples had not been heard by the parties as they were required by law. The Minister then took the opportunity to attack his predecessor and accused her of not having heard parties in similar cases either. The explanation then held the summer over until the day before the third and provisional last consultation on 11 October 2017, when the Minister had to admit that the accusation that her predecessor had unlawfully failed to attend was not true. It was based on incorrect information received by the Minister from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration prior to the consultation, the Minister now explained. On 11 October 2017, in response to the question of who was responsible for the illegal non-Participant hearing, the Minister explained that it has the authorities. It is a bizarre process with a minister who first sits over the advice of his officials and pushes through the deletion of an important legal reservation in an instruction and then shifts responsibility to the Ministry and the authorities. The minister is and was the ministry, and she is and was the authorities. It is difficult to get anywhere with a minister who repeatedly changes the explanation and consistently pushes responsibility away and onto the official apparatus. Adding to this that the Folketing and the public have been denied access to the key documents of the case, we must, after three consultations in 2017 and before the two in 2016, acknowledge that the possibilities of the Folketing to get to the bottom of this matter without the help of an impartial investigation are not very good. In the Enhedslisten, we would like to see better tools available to solve cases where ministers are suspected of acting illegally. In other countries, for example: Germany, there are rules that a large minority in parliament can decide to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to carry out investigations. Unfortunately, we do not have such opportunities in Denmark, so in the absence of better we are five parties which have now come together to propose an independent investigation. There is probably no majority in favour of this on this side of a parliamentary election, at least not as long as a narrow majority of exactly 90 seats is held by a minister who, after long pressure, admitted an illegal administration but who continues to refuse to hand over key documents to clarify the situation. However, we are pleased that we are five parties that agree to launch such an investigation, for which there may not be a majority today, but for which there may be a majority later after a parliamentary election. We will look forward to this if the present narrow majority in the Folketing maintains its rejection of an impartial inquiry. We must and must get to the bottom of this matter, we must and must place responsibility. Basically, it is about ensuring that ministers do not commit illegal acts and that ministers speak the truth, whatever a majority may think of a minister, regardless of what a majority may think of the policy pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426155236	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426155242	The proposers want to require the government to initiate an independent investigation into the Minister's handling of the separate accommodation of minors married or co-living asylum seekers. Since there is no objective basis for initiating such a laborious and costly study, we in the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution. There is no evidence that the Minister should have initiated an illegal practice or attempted to do so. We note, however, that the Minister has taken on board the Ombudsman's criticism and acknowledged that there were things that should have been done differently. The Liberal Alliance does not therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426155325	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. Then we move on to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426155349	Thank you. It is, of course, against a sad background that we are discussing motion for a resolution No. 91 to carry out an independent study on the handling by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration of separate accommodation for underage married or co-living asylum seekers. It is, after all, a motion for a resolution that we are tabling together with the Socialists, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the SF. And we are putting it forward because we have seen a minister who, in relation to the illegal separation of young asylum couples, has changed the explanation and provided misleading information on countless consultations. It is quite true that, as she herself said, the Minister has taken part in a great many hours of consultation. I do not know if she thought it was a waste of time to sit there, but for us who sat on the consultations, it was sometimes experienced as a waste of time. After all, the Minister repeatedly refused to answer relevant questions and, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has so well examined, the Minister also changed the explanation time and time again. The crucial question is, of course, back to the time when the illegal instruction was sent out. Then the Minister said to the Folketing: Well it was not an instruction; it was just a press release. And she removed some sentences from that press release herself, but we cannot find out the reservations that the office had taken, whether the minister did it on his own and how the officials had guided her. And that is ultimately the responsibility of the Minister, so it is really strange that she does not want to give us that information. There we sit in an opposition and do not carry out any personal crusade on the Minister's behalf. I would like to emphasise that. What I want to say in my speech is that it is not about the person who is a minister. It is about being a minister that the Minister must provide truthful information to the Folketing and that the Minister must, of course, provide the necessary information to the Folketing. And we do not see that the Minister has done so. We have repeatedly asked for information, and most recently I put a question down from the Chamber to the Minister about whether she will tell us what was in the lines that she removed from the instruction. And she won't. That is why we have to say that a Commission inquiry must then be carried out, because we also need to be able to interrogate some officials. And I think it's sad that we have to get there. I think it should be in the interests of all parties of the Folketing, regardless of their colour, always to be sure that, as a Parliament, you get the correct knowledge. And that is also why I can support Enhedslisten's rapporteur in saying that I hope that with a future change in the majority of the Folketing we can discuss how we can carry out studies which a large part of the minority can enforce. You can, for example. say that if 40%. The Danish Parliament agrees that an investigation should be carried out, and an investigation will be carried out. As the alternative is a co-sponsor of this motion for a resolution, we naturally support the proposal. That goes without saying. We very much hope that other parties in the Folketing will change their minds and yet will support the fact that we must, of course, have a study done. And if they do not, we will look forward to an amended majority after a parliamentary election, which will then be able to initiate an inquiry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426155814	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426155823	Thank you for the floor. I think very many of us feel that we really do not have the courage; then it is no more fun to stand here and talk about some consultations we had many months ago. Now a majority in the Folketing has decided that it should be different, so why do we even keep going? People have forgotten. Can't you move on? they ask. At the same time it has to be said that we are perhaps generally not good enough to follow politics from this Parliament; to do what we say we will do; to make politics work the way we say it should work. We should not just move on to the next and the next that can give us the new headline. When I went on summer vacation last year because it was last year that we went on summer vacation after a series of consultations I did it with a really strange gut feeling, and I actually still have it. This case is one of its expressions, and it is not really about political disagreements at all. We have found many solutions across political parties, both at this stage and afterwards. It is really more fundamental about the state of democracy. Because I've been a member of the Folketing since 2011, that is, almost seven years. And that is not so long, but it is at least long enough to understand how this Parliament, for which I think it is a privilege to be elected, works. Happy Niels Helveg Petersen said to me on one of the first days that it takes at least three years to learn to become a parliamentarian. I think he was right about that. And it was also he who said that it is no shame to have been elected to the Folketing. He was right about that, too. It's actually an honor. And it should be, and it is binding. The Danish Parliament, elected here, is Denmark's legislative power. The government is the executive, and therefore it is one of the greatest tasks of the Folketing to control the executive. And that's what this is about. What drove me to run for parliament was not to be a snappy watchdog watching the government; that is not what drives me into politics; that is not what makes me get up in the morning. But the task of control is part of my democratic duty. It is written into the task I have, and it is one of the cornerstones of what we call democracy, our understanding of democracy, not Orbáns in Hungary, but our understanding of democracy here in Denmark, which is that it is divided into a legislative, executive and judicial power. My parents are Leftmen, Loyal Leftmen, Old School Party Members in the Left. We have many discussions out of this, including many good discussions. Some of them are fertile. There are others who are not always, but it seems to be quite common in a family, even if you come from the same party. I hope so. We have also discussed this matter, i.e. the case of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration's illegal instruction and forced separation of a number of young asylum couples. The Ombudsman has expressed his opinion on this; it was illegal. And my parents know that any form of coercion, any form of arranged marriage, is deeply against me. You also know that the fight for equality and equal opportunities is one of the forces that has driven me into politics. And they also know that Mrs Mette Abildgaard of the Conservatives was right when she said that this case is not about child brides. No, this case is about the state of democracy. It is about whether, in a government, you are so dependent on your Foreign Minister that you do not dare to investigate the illegal acts committed by her or her ministry. And it is about a majority in the Folketing that has forgotten or repressed the constitutional duty they have to be the controller of the executive. That is why we are a number of parties who have tabled this resolution and are going to follow it to the end. I regard this as a fundamental duty for me as being elected to the legislative assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426160417	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and this is the SF rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426160439	Thank you. Today, I shall be presenting the rapporteur's speech on behalf of the SF's rapporteur on foreigners, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, who unfortunately cannot be present. There are a number of things we know in the case of the illegal instruction of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to separate married couples from each other without prior consultation of the parties. We know beyond the shadow of doubt that with the instruction the Minister violated the law. We know it was wrong when the Minister claimed that the instruction was in fact merely a press release. We know that the Minister claimed that some of the girls, who were separated according to the instructions, had already been separated by skilled professionals within the framework of the rules. We also know that the Minister was warned by the Institute for Human Rights and the Red Cross. And we know that when the Minister apologises for these breaches of administrative law for being complex law, which even the Minister's officials had difficulty interpreting, then it is the same law that Professor Sten Bønsing claims that his third semester student must be able to reach his fingertips if they are to pass an exam with him. We know all that. But these facts leave us with more questions than answers. We do not know why the Minister removed lines on the legal basis of the instruction which the Minister's officials asked for. We do not know why the Minister asked the Foreign Affairs Council to separate the couples before the legal basis, according to the Minister himself, was in place. And we do not know whether the Minister is telling the truth when the Minister claims that it was the complex law that caused the Minister's own officials to overlook a fundamental legal principle in such an important matter, while the Minister himself overlooked the warnings of this very thing from several actors. The 90 mandates which have adopted a seemingly unbreakable pact that protects the Minister, regardless of what they may be, play down these events. Does it matter now that a minister has broken the law? And does it do so much that the Folketing is misinformed and cannot get answers to crucial questions about the Minister's behaviour? It is in itself a sign of how unique the support for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is that these questions are even being asked. For, of course, it is essential that a minister as a representative of the rule of law should play according to the rules. It is a mystery to the SF that it is even under discussion. The government and its support party tend to avoid answering the facts of the case and instead pushes away the focus, often with the question: does the opposition really care about the girls that this is about? The question is grotesque because the answer is so obvious. Of course, everyone thinks that it is positive that attention is being given to young people who are involved in a relationship against their will. That is why we also agree that it is extremely sensible to have a practice in which the couples are separated from each other as a starting point. All we've ever asked for is for the girls to be heard. It in itself raises a new question if it is really the girls who are the important thing for the government and the Danish People's Party. If you really defend a minister's crimes with the best interests of the girls, why should the very same girls not be heard in their own case? And why does one seem to be completely indifferent to the fact that according to the Red Cross the Minister's instructions led to many girls being plagued by depression, isolation and self-harming behavior? There is a need for an investigation, for these issues to be resolved. Everyone has an interest in this, including the Minister himself, who must have a great desire to be cleared of the accusations she faces. Perhaps the Minister has also heard my rapporteur's speech. I can be a little in doubt, because I have found that the Minister has spent almost all the time in the proceedings to speak in the scenes. But I just want to say thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426160842	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's line, so that is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426160857	The proposers want to require the government to initiate an independent investigation into the work of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. A specific reference is made to a press release issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration on the accommodation of married minors. It is suggested that the press release has led to illegal practices in the exercise of the authority of the Foreigners' Authority. It is in spite of the fact that the Board has stressed to the Danish Parliament that proper practice has always been carried out in accordance with the law. The Minister has been convened in several consultations, in which the opposition has had many opportunities to exonerate the Minister on the matter. Nevertheless, at no time has there been any evidence that illegal practices have taken place or that there has been a desire to do so. There's nothing more in this case. The proposal is not based on an objective basis. On the other hand, it is based on a political desire on the part of the opposition to go after the minister. The process has been reminiscent of a determined witch hunt, and the opposition has had the great guns ahead. But there's nothing to come for. We do not believe that we should spend taxpayers' money on the opposition being able to pursue politically the minister and the government. We already have a well-functioning control of the government, among other things. in the form of the Ombudsman. That is why we do not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426161032	Thank you. There is one brief comment, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur to stay up here. And it's from Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426161039	Thank you. Now I have had the opportunity to read a lot ahead of this debate, and one of the things I have read was an interview with Mr. Naser Khader in Politiken on 24 June 2017, where Mr. Naser Khader tells us that he has had a meeting with the Minister and the Minister's Head of Department, where he has been assured that no illegal action had been taken in this case concerning the young asylum couples. Politiken's interview was done with Mr. Naser Khader the day after the consultation in which the Minister had to acknowledge that illegal administration had actually been carried out in the absence of a hearing by a party. The insurance, like Mr. Naser Khader was given at the meeting he mentioned himself, so it didn't turn out to be right. Sir. Naser Khader himself said in this interview with Politiken that the Minister's predecessor, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, had committed a similar illegality. After all, it did not turn out to be right either. So I'm actually having a little trouble understanding that sir... Naser Khader, when he has twice experienced that he has received incorrect information in this case, still trusts the information he receives from the Minister in relation to whether or not correct information has been provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426161155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426161156	So, if you roll back the time back to when it all started, there were in fact many rapporteurs from the opposition who also demanded action by the minister. It turned out that we had received many minors living together and action was required. So the minister acted. Then it happened that there were some who claimed that it happened illegally, and at the beginning of the process I chose not to say anything because I had to hear what was up and down on the matter. I have asked about the details of the case and have been assured that nothing has been done illegally. And I trust that. And that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426161250	Mrs. Stine Brix, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426161252	I'm just wondering about this completely unlimited blind trust from Mr. Naser Khader's side when Mr. Naser Khader has twice experienced even having received information which then subsequently turned out to be wrong. Well, what is this completely unlimited trust based on? Is the confidence so unlimited that it means that it is fine with Mr. Does Khader deny that there are absolutely key documents in this case that the Danish Parliament cannot obtain central documents that could help clarify this process and find out what was really up and down? So, is it not to take care of democracy to ensure that those things actually come out, rather than simply depositing it in a what I would describe as blind trust?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426161337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426161338	Yes, I take great care of democracy and we must take care of democracy. I trust the things I have been told, and I have great confidence in both the Minister and the official work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426161350	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we have finished the rapporteur's series and we go to the rapporteur for the proposers. And this is Mrs Astrid Krag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426161400	We are now discussing a resolution of a rare nature and fortunately for it. Because it is a matter of disregarding the responsibility of the Minister, of misleading the Folketing, that we, as a Parliament, cannot allow a minister to be above the law. In March 2017, the Ombudsman made a deeply critical statement on the Foreign Minister's instructions of 10 February 2016. The purpose of the instruction was to separate all minors from the asylum couples in the country's asylum centres. It was as such a good ambition, because we can all agree that no minor should be forced to marry or be trapped in a relationship they do not want to be in. It goes without saying. The problem with the Minister's instructions was simply that it did not remain within the legal framework when it was issued, that the Minister was reportedly warned of it by his official work, and that the instruction led to illegal administration in the form of forced segregation of young people. The Ombudsman thus writes on the first page of his statement: "Of course, a ministry will often be able to change practices in one area, for example. It is a matter of political will, but it must remain within the rule of law. It is fundamental in a community of law, and the Ministry did not do so in this case. ▪ That's why we chose to call the minister in consultation. This became as many as three of the kind, which has also been discussed here during the debate. In addition, we asked over 200 committee questions for the sole purpose of not witch-hunt, not persecution, but clarification of the course of the course that received such fierce and clear criticism of the Ombudsman. Because we have a parliamentary duty to investigate and follow those matters completely to the point where a minister has failed to fulfil his responsibilities. Unfortunately, we have to recognise that we have not succeeded in doing so. What we know is that the Minister was warned by his officials prior to sending the instruction and that the Minister himself removed the crucial sentence of the instruction that made it illegal. We also know that the Minister's instructions have been followed, and that legal discussions on legality took place in the official work. And we know that the official work on 28 April 2016 itself began to correct the illegal administration. All 23 cases were resumed and the proceedings suspended, while consideration was given to how legal proceedings should be organised. At that time, among other things, there were: The Red Cross and the Institute of Human Rights made a strong criticism of the new practice, just as the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament had gone into the matter. But how could things go so wrong, how could it get there, who is responsible? It is important to find out, and we are now tabling a motion for a resolution which will mean that it will be examined. We want an independent investigation in which the officials and members of the government involved are given the opportunity to speak under witness responsibility. Because we need to assess whether responsibility for the creation of the instruction and non-compliance with Danish law and international law in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing can be placed on specific persons, either members of the government, officials or others. And we need to have an assessment of the responsibility and legality of the administration of the instruction by the Ministry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a number of specific cases in 2016 and 2017, just as we need a review of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' communication with the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Justice on the administration and compliance of the instruction with Danish and international law. Why is it so important to have an independent investigation, why do we spend our own time and each other on this, on the resources of the office and on taxpayers' money, even though I can reassure you that it will not be in the order of magnitude that one gets the impression when one listens to the government rapporteurs? Well, we do, because thousands of Danes every day carry out the decisions taken by government ministers. Thousands of Danes are affected every day by and must comply with the decisions taken by government ministers. That is why, of course, decisions must be taken within the framework of the law. And if the decisions can't, and if a minister wants to change the legal framework, then the Minister must go to the Folketing and change the legislative framework; otherwise it will no longer be the Folketing that decides the legislation in this country, and so it will no longer be the Danes who decide in their own country. We are at the heart of our democracy; we are at the heart of the words of the Constitution. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are very serious about this matter. For us, it is about the fundamental principles of our people's rule; about the fact that, in our democracy, we have established ourselves in such a way that the government exercises power and that the Folketing adopts the laws and that no one is above the laws, no one takes them into their own hands, nor a minister who wants to act decisively and decisively. In other words, a minister must, of course, abide by the law. A minister may not lie to the Folketing or give the Folketing misleading or incomplete information. If that appears to be the case, yes, then we are obliged to have it examined in depth and to have a possible responsibility placed. Against this background, I am not so surprised to inform the House that the Social Democrats support the proposal to launch an independent inquiry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426161922	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426161939	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Astrid Krag from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426162001	Thank you to the Minister for calling this debate on the elderly, as it will appear here in April 2018. On the day of the appointment of Denmark's first Minister for the Elderly, I was on TV and wanted to welcome the Minister into the post. She was a good former colleague. But I also said at the same time that I feared that the Minister would have a hard time at that post. Being the minister of the elderly in a government consisting of parties that want zero growth or even minus growth and thus large savings in our welfare would hardly be an easy task. Now, when we look at the government's request and take stock of it just a little less than 11⁄2 years later, it is clear that the government chose to appoint an elderly minister, but that the ambitions and willingness to prioritise the elderly did not follow. Now we are probably going to hear the Minister mention a large number of things that have happened in the area of the elderly. I really believe that all of us in this Chamber can do so by heart. We hear the same list every time there is consultation, whether it is about lack of time in home care to reach the searched tasks, about too many sosu helpers in weak citizens or about problems in finding trained staff for nursing homes or other specific problems, then we get the same listing. It's about the finance laws the government has made with the Danish People's Party, it's about the agreements we've made together, either the entire Folketing or the parties behind the stake pool. And these are fine and good initiatives. We have either proposed something similar ourselves or helped to carry them through. But it can be very badly concealed that very few of those things have come from the government itself. On the contrary, we see time and again that it is the reverse world when it comes to the minister and the government's will to act. I am sure that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party will address the issue of the finance laws and how much or how little, it can be said, the government chooses to give priority to the elderly when they themselves present their draft Finance Act to the good results that must be fought home for the elderly at the negotiating table. More than once, I have heard the Danish People's Party's older rapporteur a little annoyed that it seems that the memory of the elderly minister is missing when it comes to recognising that it was not exactly the government itself that had secured the tangible boost for the elderly. As I said, however, I believe that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party will have a few words to say about it in a moment, and otherwise I will have an opportunity to ask him about it. I will then spend my time on one of the other things that we are experiencing in the area of the elderly with the current government, namely that the government is only reluctantly acting on a problem when it can see that there is no way around because there is a majority in the Folketing to do something about a matter or a problem. And let us take the case of bankruptcies in private home care as a concrete cut-off. Older citizens who are being searched for practical and personal care have the right today to choose between private and municipal providers in the so-called free choice system. Many elderly people are happy about it, but over a number of years there has been an excessive number of private carers who have gone bankrupt with great insecurity as a result of the elderly and great practical problems and financial burdens for the municipalities that have had to take over the care of hundreds of elderly people who are unable to cope with themselves and are deeply dependent on the help they receive at short notice. This is a problem which one would think would get the country's first minister of the elderly out of the chair. However, although we saw more bankruptcies at the end of 2016 and at the beginning of 2017, nothing was heard from the government or the minister. It goes without saying that this is an unsustainable situation, and since the government did not want to act, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the SF gathered a majority around the government and demanded that negotiations be convened. It made the government promise that something would happen now, and even if we had to go all the way across the summer break before we were called for negotiations, and had to go through a long process of negotiation, where the government seemed as concerned about the opportunities for private companies to do business as it was to give the elderly security, we finally arrived at an agreement, and it was shown last week or last week that we dealt with the bill in this Chamber. At least it was a day of joy. But this foot-to-hand approach, where the government and the minister have to be dragged to the trough, we have met again and again. My speaking time does not allow me to go into all the examples where we have seen it, but a further cut could be when we saw a large study from the FOA in the autumn, which showed that there were problems with the time allocated to the sosu helpers and sosu assistants when they had to perform searched tasks in the running home care. There were even some who had 0 minutes to come from citizen A to citizen B. When that study was available, I asked the Minister what she would do and I got the answer that she would not do anything about it. It was the responsibility of the municipalities. A little six months later another study came, and municipal leaders were asked. And not surprisingly, it was only 4%. of those who felt that there was sufficient time on the road maps to enable the so-su assistants and the so-su assistants to carry out their care tasks. That study led us in the Social Democratic Party to convene the Minister in consultation with the Danish People's Party, and first at that consultation the Minister appeared and was willing to act on the problem. Or act and act that is perhaps so much said because what the Minister hard-pressed promised was to investigate the problem, set up a working group to look at it. Yeah, a working group to look into it. And let that be my last point before my speaking time runs out: never do I think I have seen so many working groups and task force actions and cross-cutting analyses as in this statement that the Minister has published in connection with our debate here today. It may be fine if something comes out of it and it doesn't take too long. But in this case, I have to say so far that the tracks are frightening and I think I am speaking on behalf of several parties when I say that we have been disappointed. As his first deed, the Minister set up a task force to find all the bureaucratic rules and all the trouble that steals staff time from the care and care of the elderly. And that is not so little if we are to believe the Liberal Alliance, which is the minister's party. In fact, it is believed that so many billions can be saved by making things smarter in the public sector that it amounts to more than what we spend on our care for the elderly in general. And look, it's a clever claim, when you want to spend the money on tax cuts instead of welfare, to say: We can get both things easily if we just drop all the trouble. But what came out of the Liberal Alliance's senior minister's task force against bureaucracy and stupid rules and trouble? Yes, we waited in excitement, and we waited 1 year, and then we waited a little more, and when the recommendations finally came, the Minister could not point out that we could release warm hands for the elderly. She couldn't point to any rules she was about to start looping. Or yes: I think there was one in relation to the outbound municipal nursing when we asked about it on a consultation. One swallow, however, as we know, does not do any summer, and the task force, which we had heard about for more than a year as a major solution to the problems of elderly care, turned out to be a total stomach splash. Not only did we conclude this as a tough opposition in here at Castle, but it was also the clear assessment from the Elders Case and the FOA. So it's a bit of a stomach condition, and I don't really like that much about it, and I'm also about to round it up. In June last year, when we had had an Elders' Ministry for 100 days, I wrote a chronicle in the newspaper Politiken and made the following conclusion, and now I quote myself: the government has made it clear in its government basis that it will not allow public budgets to keep up with the increasing number of elderly people. For each crown extra it costs the public sector to provide welfare to us Danes, as a result of our growing older, the government will pay only 50 cents. One does not need to be an economist with employment in the Ministry of Finance to be able to figure out that this will have major consequences for our welfare and, above all, for the care and care of the elderly. I fear, therefore, that some of the most characteristic features of the Danish welfare society, namely a high degree of security and equality in old age, will be undermined at record pace. Unfortunately, I have to say that this conclusion is still quite accurate here after 11⁄2 years with an Elders' Ministry in Denmark. As when the Minister for the Elderly arrived, I wish him every success in marking a government that is not in a position to keep up with the growing number of older people. It is a government that clumsyly claims that we can easily do more for less in our welfare, and it is a government that puts tax cuts before our care for the elderly. It is uphill for you, dear Minister of the Elderly, but you should know that we are always ready to help and bear through that we must put welfare first.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426162836	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426162841	Thank you. There is much of what the Social Democrat rapporteur has said, I do not agree with it, but I fully agree with the conclusion that it was a stomach condition. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether more or less money is being spent on the elderly in the municipalities under this government compared to the government led by Helle Thorning-Schmidt a few years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426162912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426162913	I guess I get that question, if not every time, so very often when we discuss this. And we've got significantly more elderly, good for what we live longer, but there are also more who need care. If we look at some of the figures that I usually bring to the rapporteur of the Left, we can see from these figures from the Ministry of Finance that there have been 2,300 fewer employees in the care of the elderly under this government. Those numbers will be recognized out there. FOA has carried out a study that shows that every other public employee is experiencing fewer colleagues, and it looks worst in nursing homes and nursing centres, where it is 65%. of the sous, who experience that they have had fewer colleagues. For home care, it's 50 percent. So it may well be that the budgets have increased, of course we can, among other things. Thank the Danish People's Party for coming to the floor in a few moments, but at the same time more older people have arrived. The reality that is out there, where aid is to be given and where there is help needs, in nursing homes and in home care is therefore that you are fewer colleagues and that you run faster.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426163016	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426163017	I am very pleased that the Socialist rapporteur here confirms that there was minus growth in the municipalities under the former Socialist-led government. Those were some sad years, that was it. I am delighted that we have come out on the other side and that we now have a government that invests massively in nuclear welfare. In his speech, the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned bankruptcy in home care. I would just like to ask whether Mrs Astrid Krag can confirm that the bill, which, among other things, has been adopted. In addition, there is a need to ensure that there is no discrimination on grounds of nationality, in particular in the case of nationals of other Member States and in the case of nationals of other Member States who are not nationals of other Member States and who are not nationals of other Member States.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426163102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426163107	Sometimes politics just gets a little too stupid. I didn't say anything about there being minus growth under the Social Democracy. In fact, 3 billion were spent. kr. more on the municipal welfare below us. But I did not say anything about it at all, so to hear the rapporteur of the Left say that she is pleased that the Socialist rapporteur confirms this, is quite gibberish. Then I just want to say that no, I don't recognize that. It is true that a legislative change was made to the system of free elections when we were in government, but I cannot draw the conclusion that the rapporteur of the Left is making, that is to say that it should have led to the increasing number of bankruptcies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426163140	Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426163143	Thank you. I would like to know whether Mrs Astrid Krag can confirm that it was the rapporteur's own government that set up the Productivity Commission, which demonstrated an enormously high efficiency potential in the older sector, and what are Mrs Astrid Krag's comments on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426163204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426163205	Well, we don't have to go back into historical annals and see who set up which commissions. We can, of course, look at the task force that the Minister for the Elderly set up as one of the first when she arrived. It had more than a year to go through the entire area of the elderly with a close comb and find all the unnecessary rules, all the unnecessary bureaucracy, all the stupid trouble that the Liberal Alliance thinks can just remove and then free up, I think it is 55 billion. kr. kr. All in all, on our care for the elderly. It was not the result that came out of that work. It was even a minister who was a member of the Liberal Alliance who was in charge, so one has to assume that there has really been coal in relation to going into all the details and seeing where resources could be released by removing bad rules. That is really a pity, because it would be the good news of the day if we could abolish a hundred stupid rules in the care of the elderly, and then suddenly you wouldn't run so fast, and then suddenly you wouldn't see that you had fewer colleagues for still bad citizens. That would be the good news of the day. But we just have to say that after the senior minister's task force had worked for over a year, they couldn't even sniff out if it could release any warm hands. I guess that says a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426163315	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426163316	Now that's not what I asked. I asked about the Productivity Commission, which Mrs Astrid Krag's own government set up. And so it is not the Liberal Alliance that has invented that there is so much to be done in the public sector. It is precisely the Productivity Commission set up by Mrs Astrid Krag's government when the Social Democracy led the government. That is basically just what I want to hear about, namely why Mrs Astrid Krag did not do anything about it then or since then have followed up on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426163353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426163354	But now it is neither the previous government nor the Social Democratic Party that has taken the work of the Productivity Commission and made it a political programme. This is the Liberal Alliance. That is why it is also the Liberal Alliance that claims that we can remove rules and troubles in the public sector to the extent that we can save more than we spend on our entire care for the elderly. I think that's what I'm screaming to heaven. I can just say to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur that this is not our political programme. That is why I am not going to stand here on the platform and stand for it, because I do not think it is connected. I am quite sure what the consequence would be if the Liberal Alliance had a majority in here alone and that would be huge savings in our welfare. I would not want that for the elderly out there or for the employees who work hard every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426163437	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426163448	Thank you. Thank you to the government for its statement, which is, of course, a statement which contains a great many positive elements. Among other things, you can... read that older people are getting better in Denmark. Their health is better than it has been in the past. After all, we can only welcome the fact that we have come so far in our welfare societies that we will have more good years. So, and this is unexpected, it is also a new style from a government that in such a statement describes all of its failures. It is, for example, that the government would spend only 5 million. kr. in new kitchens in nursing homes and had to suffer the torment of spending 425 million. kr. in kitchens after negotiations with the Danish People's Party. You've wanted to mention that you lost that fight anyway. It also welcomes the initiatives for small amounts of 230 million. Despite the fact that the government, in its own proposal, would spend only 140 million dollars. kr. in the area of the elderly. It was also a defeat for the government, which, after all, we would like to talk about, namely that it did not achieve its ambitions in the area of the elderly. There are, among other things: It is also the fight against bankruptcies, which we did not really want to start with. That is something we would like to tell you about. There are clipping cards for nursing homes, which ended up amounting to 380 million. kr. a year instead of the 190 million. kr., which the government would only use in this area. There's 1⁄2 billion. kr. a year for manning, which one did not really want to use either. It was certainly not part of the proposals that had been made as a government. Yet you want to tell them about it, and thank the government for it. For it is a list of successes for the most part of the Danish People's Party, but many of them have also been achieved in good cooperation with the Danish Parliament's other parties. But these are the numbers. And many of the numbers looked really nice. There is a moderate growth in how much is being spent on care for the elderly. But sometimes it is very good to lift your nose from the excelark and look out in reality. Right now there are collective bargaining, and part of it is usually such premonitions about conflict. I find it interesting to look at the conflict warnings issued by the KL. They have issued notices of lockout in virtually all areas except the elderly. Then you can believe it's because KL says that we don't want to lock out anyway. But the truth is that they would not end up in the situation in which Danske Regioner ended up, where one had to withdraw the entire warning of conflict because there was nothing to lockout. The truth is that at a lot of care centers and in a lot of home care units they run with what you would call emergency preparedness. It is surely the greatest success of new public management that one has cut down so far that one does not offer a single thing that is not absolutely necessary. But it is sad for the people who have to live with the consequences of it that there is only room for survival, but not to live. So what does the government really want to do in the future? Now we have a statement on how things stand. What do you want to do in the future? Some points have been listed which need to be reached, not with new initiatives but with initiatives already taken. It must therefore be understood that there is, as it were, an exhaustion of the creativity of the government, in other words, that there is no desire for further investment in this area, even if you have the tools. The economic agreement is just around the corner. The elderly could be given priority there. You could, if you wanted to reach these pointers, give priority to the elderly and do something about things. Because although things are going well in some areas, there is a future that looks anything but pink. In 20 years it will be estimated that there will be 60 000 new dementia sufferers in Denmark. To put it a little in perspective, that is to say, we have a new municipality consisting only of people with dementia. It's pretty violent. Within the same time period, it is estimated that we will have almost twice as many +80-year-old citizens. And even if the citizens are moderately better, everything else is going to mean that there will be more people who will need a hand to cope with everyday life. We will need tens of thousands of social and health assistants and helpers. They are the ones who have to make care of the elderly a reality. Without them, no care for the elderly. It would be at the top of my agenda if I were a minister. It is simply so frightening a future that I cannot understand that we are not responding to it immediately and that we are not writing it into our statement, so that we have something that we really want to work on here. So, Minister, what is in the government's future? What do you want to invest in? What's going to be in a financial law game? Earlier today, the government announced that they would invest 4.5 billion. kr. a year in the field of energy. That's 10%. of the entire area of the elderly. I would like the government to give priority to older people as much as to power. Then it could be really good out there. I would like to call on the Minister for the Elderly to tell us what is going to happen in the future. What are the concrete initiatives that will be put in place to meet the enormous challenges that we are staring directly into over the next few decades? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164143	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164147	Thank you. I would like to start by signing for the good and close cooperation we have with the Danish People's Party as a parliamentary basis for the government. I'm sure the Minister for the Elderly can confirm that. At any rate, on behalf of the Left, I am incredibly pleased with the cooperation we have. I am also very pleased that the rapporteur mentions here the great energy initiative we have made today. It is clear to everyone that we want to lighten the electricity tax. It also benefits older citizens; it also benefits young people. But that certainly means that in an average family you will save approx. A thousand kroner. A year, and that's some kind of money. But now that I stand up and take the floor, it is really just because I want to ask the rapporteur something. After all, we have a tradition of making good agreements, both in the pool of rates, but also in the context of the Finance Act. And I just want to ask what the two biggest wishes of the Danish People's Party are for the forthcoming Finance Act. We're about to talk about this in a minute. What do we need in the Finance Act to accommodate the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164256	But I think it is very clear to everyone what the Danish People's Party wants in relation to the area of the elderly. It's that the care can keep up. We went to the polls, and we have repeated this in all the financial legislation negotiations, namely that the financial framework available in the area of the elderly must keep up with the many new older people who are coming. I guess that's our top priority. Then, of course, there are the hands needed to carry out the care that is vital for many older people. So these are the two main priorities. So if they're in the financial bill from the government when we get to the table, we're very happy, and then I think it's gonna be easier to make a finance bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164342	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164343	I wonder if the rapporteur could perhaps be a little more specific. For, of course, we have already given priority, both with the dignity billionaire and with the Finance Act for this year, to means for more warm hands. So what exactly is the rapporteur's position when the rapporteur says more warm hands? Perhaps the rapporteur will elaborate on that. And in relation to the fact that care must be able to keep up with the financial framework, what does the Danish People's Party consider to be a sensible financial framework in the area of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164411	We regard the financial framework as what the Ministry of Finance considers to be the framework, that is to say 0.7 per cent. in growth, in order to keep up with the demographic trait. So it's just the government's own numbers, compared to what's actually required out there. After all, this is about removing the gap that exists because we are going to lack tens of thousands of sosu assistants. We need to get more people into this area and create the framework that makes it attractive to work with the elderly. It is first of all to say that it can be a place where one can exercise one's professionalism and one should not spend most of one's time annoying that one did not reach what one would like to do for the people with whom one works.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164455	Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164458	Thank you. I would also like to know what the rapporteur really thinks it is necessary to do. Expenditure in the area of the elderly has increased by 4 billion. kr., and the cost of the elderly today is 18%. of the total service costs in the municipalities. How much does the rapporteur think it should fill, that is to say, how much does the rapporteur think it should fill in the total service costs of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164531	It's such a weird discussion. They must fill so much that there is room for there to be a dignified care for the elderly out there. If you have a municipality where there are no children, but a lot of older people, it has to fill a lot of the budget. If there is a municipality where there are hardly any older, but very many children, then it should not fill nearly as much. Well, that's such a mysterious way of doing things. What I am saying is that our objective is that the money will follow the trend in the number of older people, because we will probably be healthier and healthier, but everything else just cannot compensate for the need for more hands to help those who need a hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164616	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164617	Thank you. I also think that is a strange way of making it up, because the most important thing is what we are actually doing out there for the elderly. That is why I also ask you, when you say 0.7%, how you can deal with it. Will the rapporteur not at all recognise that there is a lot of efficiency to be gained from successful rehabilitation, welfare technology and lower absenteeism, things that have not been included in the projections made by the Ministry of Finance? After all, we can already see that a huge potential has been realized on welfare technology alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164702-2	The absence from the sick is very high in the care of the elderly because people are being pressured into what is almost inhuman. The answer to why there are almost only part-time jobs in the care of the elderly is the answer that many people are saying that the pressure of work is simply too great to be able to work 37 hours a week. So if you want to reduce sick leave in the care of the elderly, you have to do something about the pressure that is out there, and the pressure is most relieved by the fact that there are more colleagues to share the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164738	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426164746	After all, we heard the Socialist rapporteur say about his own status that it was an ulcer status. I can tell you here that my speech isn't pissed off. I'm Jens with dementia, but I'm Jens too. This is what Jens said when I, together with former Minister for Health and the Elderly Sophie Løhde, visited the Free House in Middelfart to draw inspiration from the National Dementia Action Plan. The citation introduces the National Dementia Action Plan because it precisely sets out what it is about, which is the most central issue when we talk about dignified care for the elderly, namely seeing people what they are both before and now. For no matter what the individual's diagnosis or challenge is, we must never forget the man behind it. Jens is and remains Jens, people are different and have different needs and preferences regardless of which bumps you meet on the road to life. There is rarely a box, a standard solution or a finished package that you fully and completely fit into. And if we mean something with dignity, yes, then it all starts where we see Jens or Elvira or Søren or Knud or Grethe, or whoever it is, like the people they are. And the very respect for diversity is one of the five points of focus in the government base. Another focus is influence on your own life. When I look down on the list of 22 initiatives in the area of older people that have just been listed here in the statement from 2018, yes, it is not difficult to find reflections of that ambition. Take e.g. the care home overview, which will ensure that older people have a better overview of opportunities when choosing the last home. With the nursing home overview in hand, Jens and his wife get good opportunities to choose Jens' last home, perhaps a nursing home that can accommodate them both. Or there are the funds from the 2018 Finance Act, which among other things. is targeted the opportunities for more people to have a dignified end of life, or there is the cutting-card scheme, so that older people have the opportunity to choose 1⁄2 hour extra help and support per week, which they can choose for themselves how to use. And then, of course, there's the dignity billion as a kind of cornerstone. With it in hand, the municipalities can, for example: prioritize several warm hands, and the opportunity is used diligently. In 2018 alone, 89 per cent. of the money from the dignity billionaire priority to more warm hands out in the municipalities, and I am delighted, because care and care are also at the heart of a dignified life. No one should lie with wet diapers for hours, and no one should experience not getting out of bed until far up the day, because the staff are not able to get the older person on edge. Anything else is unworthy. But life as an elderly person is much more than your own life. Your next of kin is an important focal point. I often meet relatives who have concerns, joys and sorrows to share with me. Sometimes, too, I am confronted with the concern of people in my own circle as they approach retirement age. The worry is most often about what's waiting, if and when you go to a nursing home. The TrygFonden published a report in the autumn which shows that 54 per cent. of the +40-year-olds are insecure about whether the care of the elderly will be sufficient when they need it. So let me make it clear here that the elderly area is the welfare area which, in the 2018 Finance Act, was given the highest priority. The elderly were given priority of 2.7 billion. I should like to make it quite clear that we in the Left are serious when we say that we want to give priority to dignified care for the elderly. Does that mean everything's okay? No. There's room for improvement. Relatives often feel powerless. This is why it is an important effort to be undertaken in the coming years by the new knowledge centre National Knowledge Centre for Værdg Elder Care. The knowledge center should have a sharp focus on how we now and in the future ensure a dignified care for the elderly, so that both Jens and other older people and their relatives can feel safe in their everyday lives, just as the effort is to learn how to tackle everyday life as a relative should contribute to giving relatives the absolutely necessary profit to take care of themselves, because we know that it is hard to be related to a person with dementia or another chronic illness. Many relatives simply forget to take care of themselves, because everyday life cares for the sick mate, and that is not good at all, if you as a relative are so concerned about caring for a spouse that you become ill yourself • stress, depression, loneliness, isolation and misfortune are often a sad companion for relatives. We have to do better than that. We must help so that life as a relative does not run you down, and you must learn to look after yourself and hold on to both life and the spark of life, even if you have involuntarily become the focal point of a strained everyday situation. To be honest, I am super proud of the statement, and I could have chosen to focus on many efforts and many initiatives, ranging from increased security with the new bankruptcy bill to the pot, which is now to ensure better staffing in nursing homes and home care, and to our joint work on treatment testaments. With the treatment testament, Jens and everyone else will now have the opportunity to choose on and off before they mentally disappear into a world where one can either not reach or cannot express one's own desires. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Ethical Council, which, both politically and with meetings of all interested parties in the country, has contributed to the work of a dignified death. I can't help mentioning the event... a vital conversation about death... that I attended a few months ago. Here we took the debate on death, which is inevitable for all of us, and it was a liberating and honest talk. And as the Ethical Council itself points out, life is there until death occurs. It is precisely for this reason that we must ensure that life becomes as good as it can be, that you share or are part of strong communities throughout your life; that loneliness is kept from the door and your relatives are able to care for you, or that well-trained and qualified caregivers can take over when the task becomes too large. I would like to thank the Minister for his statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165426	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165430	Thank you. I would simply like to ask the rapporteur the same question that the rapporteur asked me when I took the floor: what are the ambitions of the Left in the finance law in the area of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165442-2	I must be quite honest and say that we have not yet discussed the priorities of the Left in relation to the Finance Act. However, I fully share the point made by the rapporteur himself that we have a problem with ensuring that so-su helpers take care of the elderly of the future. We also have a problem in relation to strong communities and loneliness, and I could mention many issues, but from the outset I do not disagree with what the Danish People's Party said as something of the essence. But I must also be honest and say that we have not yet discussed the financial priorities of the Left. We're not that far.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165522	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165523	Can the rapporteur of the government's largest party then live with a financial bill that does not address the issues that the rapporteur agrees there are?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165533-2	I think it's pre-mortem to stand here and what to say, just like laying down on what priorities should be in the Finance Act. I think it is perfectly legitimate to say that we have not discussed the financial law issue yet. Of course we will have to do this very shortly, but I can assure the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that health and the elderly are two very, very important core welfare areas for us in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165611	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165612	I would then like to take up the thread of my colleague in the Danish People's Party and ask the rapporteur of the Left whether the rapporteur of the Left is satisfied with the figures from the Ministry of Finance which show that 2,300 fewer elderly care workers have arrived under the current government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165630-2	I am so pleased that, in the municipalities, priority is given to the elderly, I am very, very satisfied that the municipalities spend more money in the area of the elderly under this government as a whole. I am also pleased that the municipalities themselves have the opportunity to organise how the workflows should be. I have heard from other political parties here that special standards are being sought in the care of the elderly. We do not share that starting point in the Left. We believe it is important for the municipalities themselves to be able to plan and organise who should be employed for the tasks to be solved. For us, it is crucial that qualified staff are recruited.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165722	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165723	If that answer is to make sense, then it must be understood that the rapporteur of the Left sees it as a priority for the elderly, that there are now 2,300 fewer employees. If that is the case, then I think that most of the staff in the care of the elderly would like to be deprived of the idea of giving further priority to the area by the government. Because then it can quickly end up being dangerous compared to how many colleagues you have. Let me put a question to the rapporteur of the Left. After all, there are three parties in the government which, starting from the point of view of the growth of public budgets, have different views as there are increasing numbers of older people. Where does the Left really stand on that question? How high does the Left believe that growth must be in public budgets in order to keep up with the increasing number of elderly people?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165806-2	After all, I am fully aware of what is in the government base, and it is clear that we in the Left support the government. But I also think you have to be very careful about what to say about discussing whether growth should be zero comma one or zero comma the other. We sometimes forget in the discussion the optimizations that are actually going on out there in reality. After all, it is about getting better at treating diseases; it is about getting better at using welfare technology. What matters to me is that we have given priority to the elderly area by 2.7 billion. and that, overall, more money is spent in the municipalities under this government than under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165856	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165857	Thank you. Zero comma one or zero comma the other so let's get a little more concrete. Because it is a fact that there are more and more elderly people, and it is a fact that there are fewer and fewer people to care for them. And if we are merely to deal with the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance in relation to demographic developments, then we can see that it assumes that an average of 11⁄2 billion will have to be allocated. kr. every year until 2025. There is some way to go in relation to the thinking of the government. Does the rapporteur think that it is possible to continue good and dignified care for the elderly without taking into account the demographic developments, as the Minister of Finance himself has said, are about 11⁄2 billion? kr. A year?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426165942	In fact, I do not believe that we can, what is to be said, translate the demographic move into concrete additional expenditure. I note that we in the Left and in the Government are, after all, giving priority to the area of health and welfare. After all, health alone has been raised by 4.4 billion. kr. extra and only with the Finance Act here we have lifted the older area by 2.7 billion. kr. This is a significant economic priority for two very, very important core welfare areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426170020	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426170021	There is still a great deal more to be done in order to measure up to demographic developments. And when we look at the area of the elderly, we have to say that it is no use looking unilaterally at welfare technology. For it is simply hands that are needed to solve the task. So if we are to solve the huge challenge of the future, we need to allocate relatively more money. Healthy ageing has been taken into account in the figures of the Ministry of Finance here. So I just ask again: what is the Left's priority in the area of the elderly in relation to the economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426170055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426170056	But we in the Left have the priority we have had since the change of government and before that, namely that health and the elderly are of crucial importance to us. And that is why we have invested massively both in the health of the Danes, but also in the whole area of the elderly. This is the first time we have an elderly minister. Before that, we had a minister for health and the elderly. I think that alone is a very, very clear signal, both to the Danish Parliament, but also to the Danes, that we in the Left give priority to both health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426170136	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. It's Mrs. Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426170143	Thank you. It's 5:00 a.m. Thursday afternoon before big prayer day. I don't think I'm exaggerating if I say we're not that many in the Folketing right now. There is certainly not one in the gallery. And I've also just seen that there are hot wheat in the back, so there's probably some colleagues sitting there tasting them. But let's hope there's somebody out there behind the TV screen getting a hot wheat and a cup of coffee. Nevertheless, it is at least a central debate for a great many people in this country, on the one hand, the elderly, who themselves need help in everyday life for either practical purposes or for personal care, on the other hand, the relatives who have elderly family members who depend on that help and on the many who work in the area of the elderly on a daily basis. For them, this is one of the most important areas to discuss at all. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for having had such a statement here. However, when I read the report, I think that it misses one of the most central challenges in the area of the elderly, namely the fact that we are growing older in this country and that there are also more elderly people who need more help in order to be able to cope, but that the economy in this area does not follow at all. At the moment, we can see that there are examples that nursing homes must be exempted from strike risk. The reason for the exception is that the daily manning is at the level or worse than the emergency response that should otherwise be provided. KL quite rightly, as the Danish People's Party rapporteur said earlier, has not announced lockout. On the other hand, this has been done in the hospital area, where many of the elderly are also frequent users. We can also see that we must exempt from strike or lock-out because we cannot provide emergency preparedness because the manning is simply too bad. This is a wakeup call, compared to what is daily life in both the elderly and in the hospital area today. Well, that's not really news. We know the numbers. We know that things are bad. Since 2008, 6 million home help hours have been cut away. There have been 6 million fewer home help hours than there were 10 years ago, while 23 per cent have been spent in the same period. more older than 65 years of age. This simply means that there are weakened elderly people who do not receive the help they need. And this means that for older people who receive home help, there is far too far between visits. I have previously mentioned from the platform here in the Danish Parliament figures from the Elders Case, which shows that only since 2015 a trend has developed, where it is now the norm in the majority of municipalities that the elderly who need help with the bath will only be offered a bath once a week. I mean, there has been a marked deterioration over the past two or three years. In nursing homes, too, we can see that quality is under intense pressure. In some municipalities, the staffing in nursing homes is so low that employees' ability to provide dignified care and care is impaired. We know that it is common for a night watchman to be responsible for 24 residents, and we also have examples that an employee who is alone can be responsible for much more, as much as 42 residents. At the same time, we also know that the residents of nursing homes are significantly more weakened than they were in the past. Most suffer from dementia and other chronic diseases. So it is to a large extent the elderly who have paid the price after Denmark was through the economic crisis, partly in the form of inferior welfare, of which I have just given some examples, and partly, as you know, in the form of a later retirement age. Maybe it's because it's a group that doesn't even yell so loud. I don't know what the cause is. Either way, I do not think we can be familiar with this, because of course the generations who have helped to build our welfare societies must also have the necessary care and care that they need. In addition to cuts, the elderly are also an area which is badly affected by privatisation. When private companies move into welfare, the driving purpose of providing home help or running nursing homes is to make money for the owners and shareholders who sit. I believe that there is a great risk of this, namely that it is the consideration that becomes the driving force rather than the provision of good quality. We have discussed on several occasions here in the Danish Parliament both in the Chamber and at meetings what the many bankruptcies in the area of home help mean and what we can do about them. We have done something, but I have to say that I do not feel comfortable with the fact that we have basically solved the problem as long as a majority insists that the municipalities should use private suppliers, regardless of what the municipalities' assessment of whether that is reasonable is, moreover. What do we think is needed? Yes, massive investment in welfare in the area of the elderly, so that we can keep up with demographic developments. That must be an absolute minimum. We think it would be wise to introduce minimum rights into home care. If you need help with e.g. To bathe or get cleaned, there must be a bottom for how poor an offer a municipality may make. It is not okay when, as I said before, we see that today it is six out of ten municipalities offering baths only once a week. There's got to be a lower limit to how bad it's gonna be. We also want better staffing in nursing homes. It's absolutely, absolutely necessary. We suggest that we make a rule so that we avoid working alone as an employee. This is not the same as a proper classification, but it is a matter of being too uncertain for the sake of staff and residents if one is only on guard. We can afford that. As a society we become richer and richer, indeed, we have never been richer than we are now, as a society. Nevertheless, aid to the elderly is becoming ever worse. The explanation is very simple, because it is about how to prioritise. Right now we have a government that prefers to spend a very large part of the money on tax cuts rather than on our common welfare. We would quite simply do that in a different way if we were in power with the majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426170903	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426170906	I just want to ask you something. The rapporteur mentions cuts in the area of the elderly. I am just a little curious about what it is actually about cuts that the rapporteur thinks have been made in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426170921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426170922	As I mentioned, we can of course look at the number of home help hours delivered, that since 2008, in other words over the last 10 years, 6 million fewer home help hours have been delivered. This is quite specifically an expression of the fact that home help has been significantly cut, and there is no real reason for this when we see that in the same period there have been significantly more elderly people. So it is de facto reality out there that there are some elderly people who are not being searched for home help at all, even if they need it, and some elderly people who are searched for home help, but who get a significantly lower offer. I mentioned the example of the bath, where we can see, if we compare it with the years from 2015 to today, that it has just become significantly worse. Today it has become the norm that baths are offered only once a week. It looked different in 2015. So these are some examples of what these are for some deteriorations and what these are for some cuts we see out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426171027	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426171029	Thank you. I would like to stress that I also share the rapporteur's indignation when you can hear that there are older people who cannot get in the shower, that they are getting the wrong pills, that they are not coming out of bed and that they are lying with wet diapers and everything. I am fully in agreement with the rapporteur; I am so outraged. However, when I like to ask about cuts, it is simply to hear whether the rapporteur acknowledges that we in Parliament have lifted the area of the elderly significantly under this government and that, overall, the municipalities are planning to spend more money on the elderly under this government than was spent under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426171112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426171112-2	Everything else will be completely insane, in that there will be a marked increase in older people. But what is the central problem, which I also repeated several times in my speech, is that the money simply does not follow the needs at all. After all, it is a joyful news that more of us are getting older, but with this there is also an increased need for help, and we just do not see any follow-up. I think it is because we have a government that is very concerned about having very, very tight growth in the public sector and is very concerned about spending money on tax cuts, and that pays the elderly, among other things. the cost of not financing it, that there are more elderly people who need help. Other groups also pay the price for this, but the elderly do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426171200	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426171202	Thank you. I also fully agree with the rapporteur that we see some ugly examples that care has not been good enough, and we must definitely get rid of that. Fortunately, there is also a lot of good care and great satisfaction, so we should remember that too. But I would like to ask the rapporteur something. On average, there is a rating of 2.9 residents per year. employee on weekdays according to Elders Tagens and FOA's survey. I think that sounds like a very nice standarding. What is the rapporteur's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426171240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426171241	The discussion we have had about the standards in nursing homes has, of course, mainly concerned it at night, where it is particularly bad, and partly also at night and on weekends, and that is where we have pointed out in particular that we should do much better than we are doing today. I cannot speak on the basis of an average, because I think it is extremely different from nursing homes to nursing homes, what the standards are like. However, I have no doubt that we have a general problem with regard to the classification in relation to the night, where we can see that on average we have responsibility for 24 residents, and we have examples of one person having as many as 42 residents. In my opinion, this is indefensible. That is why we need to do something to improve the standards and, in my opinion, also to ensure that we cannot work alone because it is too dangerous, both for the individual who is at work, but also for the residents we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426171340	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426171342	I fully agree that some of these standards are far-fetched and deeply reckless. However, when, on average, there are 2.9 residents per day, the standards are similar to those in force. The rapporteur therefore believes that it is a task for us to sit in here and plan in relation to the schedules and to set standards on how many people should be in the evening and the day, and how many should be in the different nursing homes according to the composition of the residents? Is it not those who are out there who work there every day and who know what should make the distribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426171425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426171426	I think it would be silly and untimely if we were to sit in here and lay out shifts for each nursing home. That would make no sense, and we have not, in fact, proposed that at any time. What I think is needed is a general increase in the area, so there are the resources that need to be made available. In other words, the fact that there are more people who need to live in nursing homes, and there are also a number of those who have different diseases, means that more resources are needed. Where we think we should go in and do something on the part of the Folketing in relation to the norms, is specifically in relation to avoiding alone work. In fact, I think we should take action there because, for the sake of staff and residents, it is not certain that we are responsible for so many people alone. Not only do we see examples of this, but we see it is widespread.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426171520	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426171532	Denmark is a strong welfare society and we care for older citizens who need help so that they have the freedom to live a good and dignified life for the elderly. That is how the statement starts, and that is exactly what I, the Liberal Alliance and the government want, and I also know that the rest of Parliament's parties want, and I am pleased that we have good cooperation across all parties in order to achieve this goal, and we have to do so in a way that gives us as much welfare as possible for the money. One of the most important parameters of a dignified life is self-determination. All our lives we have decided when we wanted to go to bed, get up, eat, be with others or be alone, and we must also be able to do so when we grow old. We must also continue to decide where we want to live, and we must have proper food, and of course we must be able to go to the bathroom and bath when we need it or just want it. In the media we have seen some terrible cases in which the elderly have been treated in a way that we just cannot be familiar with and that has been anything but expressions of dignity and freedom. This must not happen, and therefore it is good that the focus is on it and that the government, together with the parties in the Folketing, has agreed on a large number of measures and has allocated funds for more warm hands. There is also focus on more self-determination, own kitchens, more free choice in several areas, as well as more information and more security about free choice. At the same time, efforts have been made to help relatives, which is also a very important area, and, above all, a national knowledge centre has been set up so that we can learn from the mistakes that occur. But it is also my hope that you will learn well from all the positive experiences. For although we in the media are mainly hearing about the bad events, fortunately we know that there are very many places where staff are really doing a good job and that the elderly are happy and satisfied. The report shows that the vast majority of older people are satisfied or very satisfied, i.e. between 79 per cent. and 91 per cent. But, of course, we shouldn't use it as a sleeping pillow. Because, as I have said, there are examples that this is certainly not good enough, and we must also remember that older people are very painstaking and grateful, so we must all be aware of whether care is also good enough. Of course, it is primarily the people who are with the elderly on a daily basis and who know them who are therefore best at assessing whether the conditions are good enough. As I said at the beginning, self-determination and free choice are very important in terms of a dignified life. Just because we grow old and depend on others, our own desires and will must not be overridden. In the statement we can see that approx. 60% of the citizens who receive home help indicate that free choice of supplier is important or very important, and that is actually a high figure when we consider that the information about free choice does not seem to reach everyone and at the same time in relation to the number of bankruptcies and the much focus that has been on it. That is why it is also important for us to be even better able to inform citizens about free elections and, at the same time, to do what we can to avoid bankruptcies, and in these areas too, a great deal has been done recently. It is probably no secret that I am happy with these initiatives and I would like to see even more freer choice. But I will continue to work on that. After all, money is a necessity for all these measures, which is why the government has also contributed more money than we have seen in the past. But money is not everything they say. It is at least as important how money is spent and factors such as healthy ageing, successful rehabilitation, welfare technology and lower absenteeism can release resources for better care and better care. There is an exciting work ahead of us to make older people's welfare even better than it is today, where it is also good, and to put an end to the ugly cases of poor care. It is good that we now have a report on the elderly, so we have a comprehensive overview of the situation and all the measures that have been taken. I would like to thank the Minister for his statement, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they will.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172046	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172050	Thank you. As I asked the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, I would also like to ask the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur: what are the expectations or ideas of the Liberal Alliance about what priority should be given to the elderly in the context of next year's Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172109	We, like the Left, have not discussed the details of our proposal yet either. So I cannot give a specific answer to that question to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172121	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172125	Then I have the same follow-up question: can the rapporteur of the government's second largest party live with a financial act that does not address the many more elderly people who are coming? Can we accept that there is no priority in addressing the very great challenges that we know there are and which are also part of the government's own statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172146	Now, of course, we have had an incredible amount of focus on the area of the elderly, and we have prioritised it all the time. And we will continue to do so, because this is a very important area. And, of course, we will also look at what is to be provided by funds in the future, but we do not think it is necessary to add funds to one. Because in the Finance Ministry's projections, there has been no provision for successful rehabilitation, so that more and more people can take care of themselves for longer and longer. Nor has it been taken into account the great efficiency that can be achieved with welfare technology and lower absenteeism, which can also release resources for better care and care and release more warm hands. This has not been taken into account in the projections made by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172240	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Krag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172242	Some of the things in that projection have now been taken into account. But I think that, inspired by the rapporteur's answer here, I will send those reservations to the Ministry of Finance in a question and hear what they say. I would really like to ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur something, because the Liberal Alliance's senior minister had a task force set up and worked for over a year to find all these unnecessary rules, bureaucracy and troubles that had to be removed to free up time for the care and care of the elderly. Then you barfed with a bunch of recommendations, but you could not point out that it could unleash any hands. I think there was only one rule that could be changed, and both the Elders Case and the trade union FOA were afterward out to say that this is the proof that, if we are to lift the care, there must be the means. It would actually be very interesting to hear whether the failed debureaucratisation and large scale project is getting away with the trouble that the minister started, causing the Liberal Alliance to change their view of how many low-hanging fruits there are out there; how to save a lot of money just to make things more unbureaucratic. Is the Liberal Alliance thinking anything else after this task force has been working for over a year?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172357-2	First of all, it is true that there are some things that the Ministry of Finance has taken into account. They have taken into account partly healthy ageing in their projections, but I do not know any of the other factors. I would like to say that I am also disappointed that nothing more came out than that, through the work that has been set in motion for de-bureaucratisation. This has, of course, been commented on by among others. Elders Tagen and FOA, as we have also heard, and we had hoped that they would have come up with some more examples of where this bureaucracy, which they themselves have mentioned several times, is practical. And it is disappointing when you take the bull by the horns, if you can say so, that they do not then give any more concrete examples. We were hoping for that. But I can also say that this is the beginning of long-term work. In other words, something has been set in motion in which the whole public sector must be modernised and debureaucraticized and simpler rules must be made. This is just the beginning, so I'm hoping there'll be more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172515	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172516	I think now it's just cocky enough to blame the Elders Case and the FOA for the fact that there were no more recommendations. I think they'd like to get rid of that too. The rapporteur says that she is also disappointed that no more stupid rules could be identified that could be removed, and resources had been released for the elderly. However, it is not enough just to be disappointed, since a large part of the Liberal Alliance's political programme is based on a claim that we can safely give tax relief and pour money out on it, because we can just make it smarter in the public sector, and then we can manage it with zero growth or minus growth. Well, that hasn't turned out to be right. So can the rapporteur not just stand and be disappointed? So must this also have consequences for the policy that the Liberal Alliance can formulate in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172559	First of all, I don't blame the Elders Case and the FOA. Well, I was just hoping that there would have been some more concrete examples. And when the Liberal Alliance goes out and says that it can be made more efficient, it is among other things. on the basis of the recommendations of the Productivity Commission set up by the government in which Mrs Astrid Krag was Minister. That is where we have our conclusions, and that is what we have been working on. I don't think that's so weird. Then it is true that we must continue to work on it. As I said before, this is the first step, and we have to follow it up. And there will be follow-up to this through the government's overall efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172643	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172645	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. The rapporteur is very much concerned about the importance of free choice, but the rapporteur is also here wondering where the proposals for red tape are. I would also like to point out one particular proposal, which was very clear in the report prepared by the Minister in relation to debureaucratisation. There is, in fact, an area where you can debureaucratize the privatisation of care for the elderly. It could then also reduce the number of bankruptcies. Could it be that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party would reconsider whether this is the right course for much privatisation in the area of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172733	Now we do not want to privatise it, we want to outsource it. For universal service must still be lost in the municipalities. But we want to get rid of all the unnecessary bureaucracy that exists. And I believe that when such a large proportion of the elderly want a free choice, it is not unnecessary bureaucracy to have systems that allow you to have free choice. There is some work to be done on tenders and on the whole free election process, which I would like to admit, but I do not think it is superfluous to consider the proportion of older people who want and appreciate free choice. So these are some of the areas where we have to say that we need to do a job here in order to give as much value as we possibly can to the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172825	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172826	The Elders case has in fact also conducted an investigation in this area. It shows that older people really appreciate having an influence on what tasks they have to solve much more than they are preoccupied with the logo on the uniform. Could this not prompt the rapporteur to consider whether it is the right way to continue to privatise, given that we now agree that it creates a great deal of bureaucracy, and rather than bet on more freedom to decide for ourselves what to do with tasks?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172857	That sounded pretty counterproductive. So, if you only have the municipality and then you have more freedom to choose, do you have to choose between the municipality and the municipality? Well, if you're going to have a free choice, there's got to be something to choose from. And I certainly think that is very important when you think about how many people want it despite the bankruptcies that have occurred. And despite the fact that they do not always get information about it, there are still approx. 60% who want it. Surely we should respect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172933	There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and we go on to the rapporteur of the Alternative, and that is Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426172939	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister for the Elderly for the statement. First of all, I would like to mention at the outset that the group of citizens over 65 years of age is larger and more diverse than ever before. In my speech, however, I want to focus most on the people who need the help of others, and this is also the main focus of the report. In the alternative, we believe that quality in care for the elderly is about seeing the needs of the individual, the individual elderly, in dialogue with the elderly. It's dignity, and it's respect. We are also convinced that more presence and care will have major positive consequences, not least in relation to the increasing problem of over-medication and improper medication, as we see in the care of the elderly. These are important areas mentioned in the report. I believe in particular that loneliness and well-being are areas on which we should focus very much. In this context, I would like to mention a figure which is not included in the statement, and that is that 20%. of elderly people with dementia according to the National Knowledge Centre for Dementia are receiving antipsychotic medicines; in England it is by comparison 6.8 per cent. In Denmark, the use of antipsychotic drugs in nursing homes is very widespread. The consequence is that the residents sit in a chair hanging in front of the TV, in common areas or in their room all day long. This is something you see in several places, and it is sad, and as the Elders Case also points out, it is in fact contrary to the instructions of the Danish Health Service that people with dementia should not be treated with antipsychotic medicines. One of the objectives of the dementia action plan, which was part of the pool agreement, in which the alternative was also included, is that the consumption of antipsychotic medicines among people with dementia should be reduced by 50%. Towards 2025. It is a road we must go, but when we look at, for example. A dementia care home like Dagmarsminde, which in about six months' time had virtually all this medicine removed, one can also ask whether the goal is ambitious enough. Maybe we should look at how we look after and care for our elderly with dementia. During the 1980s and 1990s, it has happened that older users of home care and nursing homes have increasingly become customers who have to supply a standard product rather than the individual, who has to be seen as something very special, who has lived his own and very special life as a bricklayer, as a hairdresser, as a lawyer, as a nurse or as a member of parliament, and who must have individual and tailored support and care. Perhaps the principles, which are also mentioned in the report, of helping self-help and the increasing use of welfare technology have had the involuntary effect that older people do not thrive, they sit and are left alone in their own homes or in a chair at the nursing home. We know. We know that there will be fewer people around the elderly on the basis of norms and on the basis of welfare technology, which will ensure, as the report says, that there will be an opportunity for only one employee where two were needed in the past, in other words there will be less human contact. 33,000 elderly people feel lonely and unwanted alone, especially older people over 75, and that is really sad. We need to create space for quality of life and joy instead of inaction and boredom. How will we be treated when we grow old? I would like to live in a place where there is homely and cozy, where there are activities, community and security. It creates well-being and it creates dignity. When I was internship at Dagmarsminde, one of the elderly, Tove, said that a good life for the elderly is about having small chores; she explained it by saying that it is for example. is to add tea towels. And another of the elderly with dementia supplemented her and said: "It's about feeling worth something. And that's not so surprising, because that's exactly what gives us good lives for ourselves, and why should it be so different because we're getting older? Fortunately, there is a movement towards creating good everyday life with walks in nature, dance, eating communities, social activities across generations. But one in eight older people over 74 years of age has poor mental health, according to the Danish Health Service. A new literature study shows that social activities in particular can make parents thrive better. And yes, of course, it's not in any way rocket science. And then social association also works preventively on, for example. Mistake. So maybe it's about getting industrial society logic out of care for the elderly and getting back humanity and common sense. At least I am convinced of that, and I and the alternative will work on that. More presence and association brings more well-being, and I actually believe that the Minister for the Elderly will work on that. I hope so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426173550	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. And the next is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426173559	Thank you to the Minister for the Elderly for the statement. It contains many fine initiatives, and a great many of them we have been together to initiate and support, especially in the context of the pool negotiations. I have chosen to address two challenges in my rapporteur's speech. One is the lack of sosu assistants and assistants, and the other is lonely older. In relation to the shortage of qualified workers in the health and care sector, we have soon heard the figures many times, both for consultation, here in Parliament and in articles in almost every newspaper in the country. Three out of four municipalities lack skilled labour in the area of the elderly, and they lack it urgently. And the challenge gets bigger and bigger every day; there are more and more older people, and there are more sosus who stop working than start working. I will repeat what I said in this Chamber a few weeks ago to another debate, namely that it is simply paradoxical that, while the government recognises the problem of labour shortages, it cuts the sosu education every year, so that it has saved 72 million in total and only in the sosu education in 2016, 2017 and 2018. kr. Then it may be that it is only a very small percentage when you look at the big finance law, but it is really 72 million. kr., which sosu programmes have had to save in 3 years. That's a lot of money. So, again, radically, there must be a great appeal to the government to stop the savings on vocational training, including the sosu training programmes. However, the problem of the lack of health and care workers is so great that it is not enough simply to strengthen education; we need to find more and wider solutions. And there should be no doubt that, on the radical side, we would very much like to see a reduction in the threshold so that we could recruit more foreigners for work in the care and care sector. We have to do something significantly different than we do today. We are radically ready to discuss all possible solutions. Another thing that is really worrying when we discuss older people's policies and care is the loneliness experienced by many elderly people. We talk a lot about mental health these years, but very often we focus on young people. And, of course, it is also extremely important that our young people are mentally healthy and well. It is not to override that agenda at all. But mental health is obviously not only relevant to young people; the elderly are a vulnerable group when we talk about loneliness. The Elders' Ministry's report states that 33,000 people aged 65 feel lonely, and from the Elders' case the figure is over 50,000 people. It is older people who feel lonely to a degree, so it affects their everyday life negatively. Many elderly people also take antidepressants. In 2016, 145,000 people over 65 years of age received antidepressants here in Denmark. We must do something about that. And so it requires a much greater effort than just a pool of limited initiatives under the rate pool. We need to use all our strength to ensure that the individual has the best possible conditions for a good life, both physically and mentally. It is not just a municipal or a state task; we very much need the whole area of voluntary service and for the many, many civil society actors. But it is the politicians who are responsible, both we and the local and regional elected representatives, who must set the framework and cooperate with civil society and with the volunteers. I am sure that everyone who is present here today does not have so many, but we could bring the whole Danish Parliament with us for that matter... has an active life outside Christiansborg. We go to sports, we go to concerts, we sit on local boards around, we do everything in our spare time. It helps to give us life value; it makes sense to us. But what about when we are 75 years old and may be affected by weakening and disease, which means that we cannot just get out ourselves; that we need someone to help us when we go to bridge? No, it certainly hasn't, on the contrary. And that is why we simply have to do better than we do today. We have a shared responsibility and responsibility for the fact that fewer elderly people need antidepressants and that more people can continue to participate in society. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426174124	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426174135	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank the Minister for his statement, which I have expected with great interest and excitement, because let me make it clear that care for the elderly is difficult to challenge. I had therefore also looked forward to the Minister's offer of initiatives in the area of the elderly, but I also expected that a statement would address the challenges of care for the elderly. I must confess that the statement is an extremely thin cup of tea on this point, perhaps because the listing of areas of action at the end of the report lacks a decisive effort, namely good care and care. Good care and care require three important elements: skilled staff, continuity and time. None of the three elements are part of the statement. All the more regrettable is the Minister's chilling reception of two important SF proposals on fixed teams and a budget regulation that follows demographic developments in care for the elderly. The demographic challenges in the area of the elderly are enormous. We're getting older, and we're getting older. This also means that we can already see that much more resources need to be allocated to care for the elderly, not to pools, kitchens and cutting cards, but to general operations. The Ministry of Finance's own figures show an expenditure ratio of 1.5 billion. kr. Every year up to 2025, well notice when you include the so - called healthy aging. If you do nothing about that challenge, it means, in short, that more and more elderly people have to share the same too few resources. The elderly feel that it is becoming harder to get searched for help and harder to get a nursing home, and the employees feel it by running faster, while the elderly, who are searched for help, are in even greater need of help. The lack of regulation of municipal budgets already has as a consequence that employees must run extremely heavily. Welfare technology solutions have had a very limited effect precisely in relation to the oldest citizens. The number of people with dementia is increasing, and today it is more the rule than the exception that you have to be demented before you can be searched into a nursing home. Thus, the proportion of people with dementia in nursing homes today is close to 90%. The nursing homes aren't geared to that at all. They are precisely built for older and physically weakened citizens, more than they are designed for citizens with dementia. It's a huge challenge. Add to this that many physically weakened citizens in this context are often unable to visit a foster home, although housing in a foster home together with other equals could have been the good solution to a dignified end of life, just as it could alleviate loneliness. The pressure on the elderly is therefore enormous. This is and remains the recipe for a higher absence from illness, when colleagues are often temporary workers with no fixed attachments, because then extra pressure rests on the permanent employees. It is therefore also a good thing that the Minister is aware of the higher sickness absence among older workers than there are in other areas of work, but there is a complete lack of a plan for what can be done about it. That remains to be seen, and it is simply not good enough. Let me make a few offers: full-time positions can create the necessary continuity in daily life when there is a whole working day to achieve all the tasks of the individual citizen. Continuity is at all a key word, because knowledge of the individual citizen is of great importance for how a task is tackled. The preparation of daily care just takes less time when you know how the individual citizen wants to be cared for. Fixed colleagues, who are known and can therefore be trusted because they know how the team thinks about the day-to-day task solution, can free up time, but not enough. So enough time to solve the tasks to be solved is also a field of action. I understand that older citizens like to have free choice. However, the section on free choice lacks an essential element, as the Elders case has also pointed out, namely that citizens are more concerned with influencing the assistance they receive, including the tasks the elderly prioritised than they are concerned with the logo of the uniform. Add to this the extensive challenges arising from the free choice of company. As a business area, care for the elderly has disproportionately many bankruptcies compared with other areas of business. And despite a package of bankruptcies, the main challenge has not been solved, namely that resources are not in line with the tasks to be carried out. In addition to the huge administrative costs associated with maintaining the free choice system, it is a challenge that municipalities have more than usual difficulty in controlling the quality of private care for the elderly. That is also clear from a reply from the Minister, which I received only yesterday. On the question of what opportunities the municipalities actually have to verify that the tasks ordered and paid by the municipality have actually also been solved, the Minister refers again to the municipality's responsibility for supervision. And even if it is not wrong, it is still a non-answer, because the fact is that the municipality does not have the slightest chance to check that Mrs Hansen has actually received the help that the municipality has paid for, unless Mrs Hansen or the relatives themselves respond. Even here, there is a risk that it will be a matter of claims against claims. That is a very serious challenge. The challenge presupposes the equality of public and private suppliers in the Public Act, and enough remains to be addressed. I therefore also have the expectation that the Minister will take some of the above challenges seriously in the future and be prepared to call for both discussions and negotiations with the rapporteurs in the future. Active action is so much needed. We'll be there if the minister calls.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426174728	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426174731	Thank you. The rapporteur said that the elderly are not so concerned, I think it was the logo on the clothes or something like that, but would the rapporteur confirm that more than half, about 50% of them. Sixty percent, in fact, want and appreciate a free choice, that is, despite all the problems that have been, it is still more than half, approx. Sixty percent who want a free choice? If the rapporteur can confirm this, will the rapporteur tell me whether she believes that it should be ignored and that we should decide on the elderly rather than allow them to choose it, as they really want?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426174816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426174817	I understand that if you ask older people if they are happy with free choice, they will answer yes. I also like it best when I can choose for myself, but I also think that the Older People's Survey is really interesting, because one has just asked the elderly what is important: whether you can choose the company to come to your home or whether you can choose what it is for some tasks to be solved by the employees who come to the home. There the elderly say that they think it is more important that they have an influence on what tasks it is that need to be solved. is vacuuming or instead must be a walk into the garden to pick some daffodils, or whatever you could imagine. I think this is an interesting study and I think it would be worth trying to see if it could be a solution for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426174905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426174907	Thank you. Yeah, but one thing doesn't rule out the other. So, of course, you want to decide which tasks you should have performed and how they are carried out. Of course it is important, and of course it is also more important than who does. If you assume that everyone can do the one hundred percent that you want, then who does it doesn't matter. But there are approx. 60% who would like to decide who comes to their own private homes. This has been decided throughout their lives, and they would like to be able to have the right and the freedom to decide for themselves who is crossing the threshold in their own homes. Shouldn't we respect that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426174955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426174956	I agree that one does not necessarily exclude the other, but we must look at how we use resources, so we also know that exactly the free choice system costs a great deal in administration and in bureaucracy. It is also very clear from the study carried out by the Minister himself on bureaucracy that this very area consumes a great deal of administrative resources. Furthermore, I agree with the rapporteur that citizens should have much more influence on who comes to the home. And that's why I dream that the citizen can end up with his own helper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426175031	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next one on the platform is the Minister for the Elderly. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426175038	Thank you for the floor, and many thanks to the rapporteurs for some committed speeches and for entering into this debate on the government's statement on the elderly. This is a debate that I have been looking forward to, because as the Minister for the Elderly, it is important for me that we continue to discuss the situation in the area of the elderly. We have to say that we do. In recent weeks, for example, we have debated the challenges of recruiting staff and also service levels in the area of the elderly. However, I also think it is important to stop and look up the themes and individual cases and get a more comprehensive overview of the area of the elderly and the initiatives taken in the area of the elderly in recent years. That is why we in the government have prepared a report on the elderly area and suggested that the Folketing should take up today's debate. The elderly area is an important area for the government. We are fighting for elderly citizens to be given dignified care and care, with the need for help, to enable them to continue to live a life of maximum self-determination and quality of life. This is among other things. Therefore, the governing parties and the Danish People's Party, with the latest financial agreements, have allocated a lot of money to care for the elderly. For example, in the latest financial agreement for 2018, we have set aside 500 million. kr. annual to more home care staff and nursing homes, and we have allocated funds to support the family effort, a dignified death and free elections. The economy is important, but we must also bear in mind that it is not just about the economy. The values of care for the elderly and the individual workplace are also extremely important. Each elderly person who needs help must experience involvement, self-determination and respect as a human being. All things considered, we must not try to make the elderly completely the same, and a crucial, central element of dignified care for the elderly is therefore an awareness of the individual's wishes and needs. One must therefore be present as manager and employee in the specific situation, and a prerequisite for it is clear values, professionalism and good management in the care of the elderly. It is therefore also important that municipalities formulate a policy of dignity in which each municipality describes its overall values and priorities in the area of the elderly. The policies of dignity must be reviewed this year. I hope that the municipalities will take this opportunity to take the discussion widely and involve the citizens, the relatives, the employees and the interest organisations in what is a worthy care for the elderly in each municipality. I would also like to address some of the issues raised in today's debate. There are, among other things: have been much talked about the challenge of the economy, demographic development and recruitment of staff in the care of the elderly. Compared with the older economy, the accounting figures show that the expenditure of the municipalities in the area of the elderly has increased by 4 billion. kr. From 2007 to 2016, taking into account the improvements to the elderly area resulting from the 2014-2015 and 2016 Finance Law Agreements. If we compare the trend in older expenditure with the municipalities' total service expenditure, then the proportion of older expenditure in total service expenditure has increased, so that today they represent just over 18%. of total service costs. In other words, more money has been spent on the elderly in recent years, among other things. because of the funds allocated by the governing parties together with the Danish People's Party since 2016. And then the latest financial figures for 2017 have just been published today. It appears that the municipalities' marriages to the elderly area have increased by just over 1 billion. kr. From 2016 to 2017, taking into account the advances resulting from the Finance Law Agreements. This is, of course, a development that pleases me as Minister for the Elderly. For 2009-2018, the number of citizens aged 65 and over has increased from 875,000 to approximately 1,116,000 citizens. This represents an increase of 27 per cent. The increase has occurred especially among the younger elderly. If we look at population development in a slightly larger perspective focusing on the oldest elderly, then the number of elderly over 75 years has increased by about 110 people from 1990 to 2018. As the population has also increased, this means that the proportion of the population represented by the +75-year-olds has been roughly constant over the last 28 years. However, this will change towards 2050. The proportion of elderly people over 75 years is expected to rise to just over 11.5 per cent. in 2030, on to just under 15%. in 2050, then to fall to approx. 14% in 2060. The relatively large increase in the proportion of older people in the population can include: is explained by the fact that the great vintages that were born in the years after World War II will be the oldest in our society for the next 10-30 years. At the same time, we must also bear in mind that developments will be supported by the fact that the life expectancy of the population is expected to continue to increase. In 2016, a 0-year-old girl could expect to be 83 years old, while in 2050 it is expected that a newborn girl will be about 88 years old. And when we talk about life expectancy, it is also worth noting that, although girls can still expect to live longer than boys by 2050, the difference in life expectancy between men and women has been narrowed. And I think that is positive. I would also like to make it clear that we must, of course, take the consequences of demographic development seriously, even if developments in themselves are very positive. The changes in the population are one of the reasons why the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has allocated money to more staff in the area of the elderly and has a desire to develop quality care for the elderly so that the elderly citizens and we as a society make the most of the money spent in this area. But I also think that the statement shows that it cannot be said that there should be a link between more elderly people and the costs of the elderly. Firstly, the health of the population improves and, if we look at self-esteem health, a very large proportion of the population, including the older age groups, assess that their own health is excellent, very good or good. Among the oldest age groups of 75 years and over, from 2010 to 2017, there has been a positive development in the proportion, which assesses their own health as excellent, very good or good. Secondly, the municipalities are constantly developing new ways of creating good care for the elderly, which means that the money can be better spent. If we look at the use of welfare technology in care for the elderly, we can see that the municipalities have actually made more efficient over 500 million. kr. Since 2014. That is, of course, positive. But the best thing about e.g. the spread of lifts and toilets is that it has led to a number of improvements both for citizens who have experienced greater security and independence, the relatives who are relieved and the staff who get a better working environment. The study also shows that a large proportion of home help recipients are satisfied with the help they receive, but that does not mean that we should stop or be satisfied. We must continue to develop home care and nursing homes. We must bring forward the good examples and support the free choice of home help providers and the free choice of nursing homes that many older people consider important. The increase in the number of older people also means that there will be more Danes who will be diagnosed with dementia. This means, among other things, that we see a different household composition in nursing homes than we have seen so far. It is important that the staff compositions reflect the residents of the nursing homes and that the employees have the right skills so that they can provide the residents with the care and care they need. Here, managers in the care of the elderly and out in the individual nursing homes play a very important role, as they can best assess what skills are needed locally and ensure that the skills of the employees match the needs of the residents. One of the other important themes that has been debated today is the challenge for municipalities to recruit social and health workers. This is a challenge which, unfortunately, is likely to increase in the future. In this context, let me begin by stating that there is no doubt that many of the elderly workers every day make a great effort to create a daily life of presence, responsibility and respect for our older citizens. If we look at the figures, we can see that, overall, they show the following: Social and health assistants in particular are in short supply; e.g. employees in the care of the elderly are among them. the oldest municipal staff; there are a great many in the care of the elderly who are employed part-time; there is generally a high level of sickness absenteeism in the care of the elderly. We in the government believe that recruitment challenges should be addressed with a number of different actions, and we are already in the process. In order to contribute to a better working environment, the government, for example, in the latest financial agreement with the Danish People's Party, has prioritised 500 million. kr. annual to a better manning in the care of the elderly. As far as possible, these funds should enable employees already working in the care of the elderly to adjust their working time upwards. Under the Financial Act of the year, 70 million were also set aside. kr. from 2018 to 2021 to strengthen municipalities' efforts to reduce absenteeism. I also hope, as I have said in the past, that the better use of welfare technology, among other things. can help bring down sick leave. Finally, together with the Minister for Education, I would like to take the initiative to set in motion a mapping of the problems of municipalities and regions in recruiting skilled workers in the area of the elderly. On the basis of the survey, we will invite the parties of the Danish Parliament to discuss the subject so that older citizens will also be guaranteed a dignified and safe life in the coming years with the help and support they each need. Finally, I should like to mention that lack of social relations and loneliness are among the social problems which I believe have great personal and human costs, not least for the elderly. It is particularly weakened, older people who are exposed to involuntary loneliness, and the number of suicides by the elderly is almost twice as high as the proportion they make up of the population. We all need to be part of a community and social network. It is therefore important to take early action and prevent loneliness. In conclusion, I would like to thank you once again for taking this debate on the government's statement on the elderly. And I would also like to say here at the very end that, although there are challenges in the care of the elderly, we must also be careful to talk it down into a big hole. There are many amazing and talented employees and many positive stories and developments out there, which it is also important to bring forward. Because we must ensure that in the years to come there are staff to take good care of the elderly and remember that working with older people is therefore both exciting, challenging and very rewarding. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180308	Thank you. And there are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180315	Thank you. If we stick to the problems and challenges mentioned by the Minister himself in the report on the elderly area, then the 60 000 new dementia sufferers over the next 20 years and the doubling of the number of the +80-year-olds, I would just like to ask: what initiatives will the government take in relation to the Finance Act to meet the challenges you yourself recognise in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180353	With regard to the Finance Act, we have to wait for our debates to take place there; I am not standing here on the platform and starting to debate them. But I want to say that this government is following developments closely. And I am also very pleased with the cooperation with the Danish People's Party, with which we have been working through the last three years of finance laws to lift the area of older people considerably.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180422	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180423	So let me ask in another way: now that the Minister for the Elderly himself points out these very major challenges in the area of the elderly, can the elderly minister accept the voice of the elderly in the government if the draft budget does not address the problems that are highlighted in his own statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180446	As in the past, I will work at all times to create a good framework for the elderly. It's an area I've been burning for the past 37 years. And just as I have helped to create the good framework and we have also been very happy to do so together with the Danish People's Party I would also like to help set the direction based on the values that I think should be essential. And it is therefore also important that we follow the area closely. There are some challenges that are essential for us to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180520	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180523	Thank you. I will try to follow up on the previous rapporteur's question, because the Ministry of Finance itself says that even the deduction of healthy ageing is the burden of expenditure, compared with an increasing number of older people, an average of 1.5 billion. kr. Every year until 2025. I just think that if the government does not give priority to allocating exactly the money to compensate for the costs of demographic development, does the Minister recognise that this will mean savings in care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180600-2	That is clear from my answer to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 482, which was sent to the Folketing at the end of February this year, that it is the Ministry of Finance that calculates the demographic feature. The Ministry of Finance stated in its reply that the calculated demographic trait should be interpreted carefully and that the calculation of the demographic trait is of a mechanical nature and e.g. have not taken into account any public productivity improvements such as: new technology and better organization of tasks, as there are new treatment options, and the cost of an additional user may differ from the average cost per user. user. The demographic trend cannot therefore be translated into specific additional expenditure which must be financed. Having said that, however, let us not forget that, as I have said earlier today, the government gives priority to the area of the elderly and that, together with the Danish People's Party, in the last three financial agreements, we have brought together the elderly area approx. 2 billion kr. Annually from 2018 onwards, the funds that we have allocated in the context of the Rate Pool Agreement in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180719	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180723	If we now imagine that with all these fantastic opportunities mentioned by the Minister of Finance, with new methods of treatment and new technologies, etc. is unable to solve the tasks in this way and looking only at the status of today and forward-looking, does the Minister recognise that substantial more money is needed to ensure that we can simply maintain the level we have today and that, alternatively, if we do not find this money in the Finance Act, it will mean savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180754	Thank God it is not possible to compare the number of citizens who will be 65 with the amount of money to be allocated to it, because there are many things, among others. the healthy ageing, rehabilitation and welfare technology that is doing a lot. But I can promise the questioner that this government will give priority to the elderly and that we will follow the area closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180820	The next question is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180823	Thank you. I very much agree with the Minister for the Elderly when she says that there are very, very many things that work very well in our care for the elderly; that there is plenty of warmth and care, highly professionally competent staff who ensure care and support for the weakest elderly every day, there should be no doubt whatsoever. But I also agree with the Minister and the government that we are looking into a time of major challenges such as loneliness, more demented, more caring, problems in recruiting employees. Now the Minister would not reply to Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen's question about what the minister thinks the government is going to do in their financial bill to address these problems; I think it was such a real politician's answer that came, namely that it is important that we follow the area closely. I think the minister said I wrote it down and it is good to know, but at the same time it is not really an answer to what the older minister imagines. So when we can't get to look in the crystal ball and get the minister's bid on how the government thinks it best solves these challenges, and what the government wants to put forward and prioritise the elderly area, we can try to rewind, because now we have had an older minister of a few laps, and I would therefore just specifically ask the older minister to tell me. How much money out of the 500 million? kr., as the Minister for the Elderly himself mentions, was an important part of the solution to the recruitment challenges and, as was provided for in the Finance Act for better norms, was set aside in the government's own proposal for the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426180946	But as my answer to Question No 1 shows. 472, which was at the end of January this year, there were in the Government's draft Finance Act 2018 among others. a reserve of 0,5 billion; kr. to strengthen core welfare, including health and the elderly, as well as a negotiating reserve of 2.5 billion. kr. Annually for priority initiatives and for themes in the negotiations on the Finance Act 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426181018	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426181019	But that money was not earmarked for the older area until the Danish People's Party entered the negotiating room. But that is good news, if what we can then hear the Minister of the Elderly suggests is that similar vacant reserves will be found in the financial bill that the government is making after the summer holiday, which can then be negotiated in response to some of the challenges that the government is calling for. Is that it? Should we understand what the Minister for the Elderly is saying so that we should not be so worried when a lot of problems are raised in the statement and that the Minister for the Elderly will not tell us here today how we intend to solve this, nor what kind of economy we think the elderly need? That will not be discussed. But should we feel safe to the extent that there will probably be some good reserves and wait for the older area and for a coinage with the Danish People's Party? It would be a really nice news to be able to finish this discussion and go on prayer day on the basis of.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426181111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426181113	In any case, I can promise the Social Democrat rapporteur that this government will give priority to the area of the elderly and that we will follow it closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426181122	Thank you to the Minister for the Elderly. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180426181137	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Wednesday, 2 May 2018, at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
