ParlaMint-DK_20181102100006	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Susanne Eilersen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 26 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the transfer of authority responsibility for fire safety in buildings to municipal equipment). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Legal Affairs Committee has submitted a report on the committee processing of draft notices pursuant to Article 5 (5) of the Data Protection Act. 3. 2. The report will be presented in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100046	The debate is open. Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100106	Thank you for the floor. Today we are going to deal with a bill that translates parts of the good political agreement on citizenship, which we concluded shortly before the summer holidays with the government and the Danish People's Party. gang crime, sexual crimes, etc., where we were given greater attention to the disqualification of citizenship, where we strengthened the documentation requirements in the disease cases and set up a unit in the Patient Safety Agency to assist with medical insights, and tightened the requirements for self-reliance. Then we also tightened the requirements for the applicant's efforts to have acquired the Danish language. We are discussing this change today, and the Social Democratic Party naturally supports the fact that all students' participation in Danish education is recorded, so that future applications for Danish citizenship will make it possible to obtain information about a student's participation in Danish education. Language is an essential condition for becoming an active part of the community and of Denmark. Finally, with the agreement on citizenship, we also agreed that in future the granting of citizenship should be marked as a ceremony at local level, that citizenship should be governed by a local ceremony in which the applicant signs to comply with the constitution, etc. and at the ceremony shows respect for Danish values and shows respect for government representatives. It is no secret that the latter part in particular, in other words the one with respect, has created a great deal of debate and an important debate, I think, about what it means to behave respectfully in Denmark and whether legislation is the way forward. We must, of course, be able to talk about this and we must be able to put it into words. The bill here authorizes the Minister of Foreign Affairs to lay down detailed rules for the organisation of the ceremonies. So far, so good. We can support a ministerial authorisation, but then it must be understood that the Minister, as the Minister very picturesquely describes it in the almost reader-letter-like notes of the law, intends to use the authority to shake hands in order to become a Danish citizen. So it becomes handshake legislation, and we cannot support that. For, as the Social Democratic Party has said, we fully support the local constitutional ceremonies, where new Danish citizens are given the opportunity to greet their local authority, which ensures a good and beneficial local anchoring, but to turn the handshake into legal requirements in this regard we are against. Of course, that is how we greet each other in Denmark. We do so as an expression of respect for the person we are facing: whether it is tall or low, thick or thin, man or woman. And it's almost so obvious that many of us probably don't even think about it, i.e. that we stick our hand several times daily to greet each other formally. So, of course, we need to shake hands. We believe this quite in line with the many mayors who have said that we do not need to legislate on that part. If, then, it turns out that there are problems with people who refuse to shake hands, yes, then we will have to discuss the legislation at that time. Against this background, I must say that we cannot vote in favour of the draft law as it stands here, but, as I have said, we support the agreement on citizenship, including the constitutional ceremonies, which we look forward to incredibly much. And that is why we are not voting against the bill, and that will be the yellow button that the Social Democrats are going to press.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100429	Thank you. There are some comments. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100432	I had a bit of a feeling when this whole handshake debate started and the left-wing with the Radicals came with their howling outrage. You're used to it being that it was like the Social Democrats were running off like scared chickens who didn't really know how to deal with this. I actually thought that was a little comical. I believe that handshaking is more than just greeting each other. It's actually part of contract law. This means that there is also a promise in the handshake that the Danish values and what Denmark stands for will be respected. If, for religious reasons, a person may, and perhaps a Muslim, consider him, that is to say the mayor who might shake hands, as unclean, this Muslim should not have citizenship at all. I think that is in the nature of things. For then that person will not be part of the Danish community at all. I do not know whether it gives rise to some fundamental considerations that I say what I do, but my question to the Social Democrats is: why can you not vote in favour of this? I think that's strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100546	Here you go, the rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100548	Thank you for that question. After all, we in the Social Democratic Party feel that we are very much in favour of legislation and also of tightening up the real problems that exist in our society. And there are problems with the influx, poor integration and return, which I know are some of the things that the Danish People's Party is currently discussing in other premises than here in the Assembly Hall. There we would very much like to be involved in using the legislative tool when it makes sense. But we must not legislate on problems that do not exist. So sometimes we have to control ourselves a little here in the Folketing and take things in the right order. We're gonna get these ceremonies flying. I think they're gonna be really nice. I think they are going to live up to the purpose on which we agree, namely that it must be something solemn and something very special when you acquire Danish citizenship. We wanted it to be celebrated. I think these local constitutional ceremonies are gonna be really good at that. I think it's gonna be some nice arrangements with Dannebrog and red soda for the kids, and how else to do it. And then I think you can handle it locally. I believe, of course, that a hand is being given. I have to say to Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe, that the question that was asked is hypothetical. Of course, you have to shake hands, and if you are an extremist... I have to elaborate on that question, because I can imagine the rapporteur asking again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100707	Thank you. My simple question is: if the Social Democratic Party acquires the power of government, will you do what you can to make this proposal disappear? Will the demand for handshake be abolished again? I find this interesting, because we also need to know how we feel about it in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100735	Okay, let me finish that sentence that I was doing. This handshake cannot be seen as a protection against extremists who hate Denmark. I was in the debate with Mrs Marie Krarup of the rapporteur's party, who felt that it could be a protection against Syrians who could acquire citizenship, but I do agree very much with Mr Krarup. Nase Khader of the Conservative People's Party, who has said that you will be willing to give your right arm for citizenship and that, if you are so far in the process, you will probably also shake hands. It's not that kind of protection, if that's what we're talking about. There we need to have some effective efforts, both in the past and elsewhere. The answer to the specific question is that we will use that ministerial authorisation differently and not use it for a handshake requirement in the way it is being laid down now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100822	Then it's mr. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100825	Thank you for the floor and the opportunity to ask questions. I would just like to come back to something that the Social Democrat President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, said in September, and here I quote: for me it is quite natural that we should shake hands. For me, this is first and foremost an issue of equality. It is both humiliating and degrading if I shake hands with another human being, and he then withdraws his hand because I am a woman. I am puzzled now, and I am, because the Social Democrats no longer want to legislate on something that we regard as trivial Danish values, namely both the fact that at home we are shaking hands with each other and that we do not see it as degrading that men and women are shaking hands with each other. I do not understand that the course has changed in such a short time. Is there some process from A to B that Mrs Astrid Krag can make me wiser?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100922	However, I do not need to make the rapporteur wiser. The rapporteur can read further into the article he has written, because the very last quotation in that article is also from Mrs Mette Frederiksen, where she says: in general, I think that Christiansborg legislates too much and that we interfere in too many things. We legislate too much in Denmark, and that is why I would like to reserve the legislation to where there is a problem to be solved, and we do not know if there is yet, she says, quote the end. So from the same article as the rapporteur now has, I have read aloud, but the rapporteur can read and read it himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100949	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102100951	This is the third time that the Social Democratic Party has voted yellow for a tightening in the area of foreigners. Is it also part of the new course of action that a new direction is being taken at all, in which the strict immigration policy is more like the spirit being nedebon, but the meat can be so terribly fragile? Is that where we are?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101017	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101019	I think we need to be extremely creative if we are to get the issue of regulating handshakes at some local constitutional ceremonies for people who have a permanent residence permit 10 years in Denmark and meet all the demands we make and we have voted in favour of their citizenship here in Parliament for a question of strict immigration policy. You have to be a very, very creative Leftman in order to make it seem that way. I'm listening, for one thing. just to some of the mayors of the rapporteur's own party who have said that we can work this out without Christiansborg having to legislate all the time. That is also what my own President has said, and I agree with that. We have many values that are insanely important and that are absolutely crucial to the cohesion of this country that works every day without us having detailed legislation on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101102	Mrs Karen Ellemann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101105	It is extremely difficult to understand the position of the Social Democratic Party in this matter. That is why I perhaps need to get the rapporteur to confirm how the Social Democrats acted during the negotiations. In other words, was it not really the case that the Social Democrats actually said: that is a very good idea, we would like that to be included in the agreement? So the very thing about the handshake being the seal of an agreement, which is why the Social Democratic Party was willing to do so. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101135	No, I mean, the whole discussion about how these ceremonies were to be organized wasn't something we spent a lot of time on during the negotiations. We agreed that the ceremonies should be introduced. We agreed that they should be anchored locally. And we agreed that you should sign the declaration of allegiance, in other words sign that you would abide by the constitution and that you should behave respectfully. And then we said during the negotiations: we think it is natural to shake hands. That is what I am saying today: we must shake hands with those ceremonies. That is also what the mayors say, both the mayors of the Left and the mayors of the Socialist Party and, as far as I remember, some conservative mayors say: this is not a problem. Of course there will be a handshake. They don't see that people don't shake their hands when they reach out. So the disagreement here is, of course, how much we have to legislate on the part of Christiansborg. And I think it is a perfectly natural discussion that the mayors are raising, and indeed, I think, the completely intuitive reaction of many Danes: is it really true that the legislative power we have here in the Folketing should not be reserved for those places where there are real problems to be solved, some real problems that are pressing our society? And that is not the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101244	Here you go, Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101247	However, in my view, it is rather drastic for the Social Democrats to see a party which, like many parties, has a prime minister candidate, nevertheless actually chooses to say: here we vote so yellow. The rapporteur is just saying: we actually think that we should shake hands. Why is it that you still come to the conclusion that you are going to vote yellow anyway? As a party, you actually agree with everything that says, but you end up voting yellow. At least I see it as a very, very confusing signal. Can it have anything to do with the reaction of the hinterland? Is it because it is the Social Democratic mayors that dictate the policies of the Social Democratic Party in the Assembly hall, perhaps primarily in the Western Region?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101339	The last time I discussed this, there were at least two German mayors on the track, and by the way, no one from the Confederal Group of the Left wanted to discuss the bill here. I cannot have been educational enough in my rapporteur's speech, because it was actually an explanation of why we are voting yellow. And I do not share the view that this should be something particularly drastic. Well, if the bill had been arranged differently, you could have done other things. We see that yellow is sometimes voted on, sometimes parties come up with amendments, suggesting that the bill be split up so that they can show how they deal with a proposal in which there are parts with which they agree and parts with which they do not agree. But the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has chosen to put forward this bill in a way so that no amendments can be tabled to it on handshakes, because it is so picturesquely described in the legislative notes. And you cannot ask for a bill to be split up with regard to the legislative notes. So we don't have that option. And then there is no parliamentary option other than the yellow button.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101440	Mrs Inger Støjberg is referred to as the Minister for Integration. That is also true, and I apologise to the Minister). Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101446	According to Paragraph 70 of the Constitution, one cannot use one's religion as a pretext to evade one's civic duties. You can't use religion as a pretext to get away from your civic duties. Can't Mrs Astrid Krag see the illogical fact that the Folketing allows a situation in which an applicant for citizenship first signs to comply with the laws of the country and then immediately goes on to say that he will have a religiously justified exemption from the rules adopted by the Folketing. It makes no sense that one's debut as a Dane is to demand exemption from general rules because of his religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101527	I really must not be very educational in my communication. The Social Democratic Party does not support the possibility of a religiously justified exemption from handing over these citizenship ceremonies. We object to the need to legislate into the detail of how these ceremonies are to be organized. Of course there must be a hand, and it is a completely hypothetical discussion that some people have spent ten years qualifying for citizenship, have put themselves in a position to meet all the demands we make. We in the Danish Parliament have voted in favour of their having citizenship and then they reach the ceremony and will not shake hands. That is totally hypothetical to me, and that is why the rapporteur will also hear me say in my rapporteur's speech: if this should happen, we will have to discuss legislation. But let's not spend our gunpowder on problems that don't exist. In fact, I think we have some good rules on citizenship. I think we are making tough demands, and it is good that we are doing so. We have been involved in tightening these demands in two stages, because of course there must be some very sharp and very precise demands for becoming a Danish citizen, the whole process, the many years before you come to this ceremony.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101641	Here you go, sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101645	The whole development in the field of immigration can be characterised by the fact that it has consisted of things which have been assumed to be hypothetical and which have happened in the last 30 years anyway, so I think it should be a little cautious to say that things are hypothetical, but as a member of the parliament you are subject to an obligation to protect, preserve and defend the constitution. Is it a good idea to defend section 70 in the way the Social Democratic Party has chosen?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101713	I do not think I can say much more clearly than I have said. Of course you have to shake hands. When a mayor puts out the patch, you shake hands, just as in our society we shake hands every single day in a huge number of contexts without legislation. It's kind of the reverse world that it's the liberal part of the Folketing who thinks we should go down and legislate in detail in this way. I don't see this being careful saying it's a hypothetical situation. We don't have these local constitutional ceremonies now. In other words, it is not a problem that exists now, so let us deal with it if it becomes a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101754	Mrs. Britt Bager, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101758	Now Mrs Astrid Krag says that it is natural to shake hands, something of the most natural, and that we are dealing with this hypothetical situation if it should arise. Should I understand that if I would rather say when this hypothetical situation arises, the Social Democratic Party is ready to legislate on it, is ready to legislate that a handshake should be part of this ceremony?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101825	But it doesn't make sense to do as if and when is the same. These are people. But I would like to spend some time solving it because you often hear in the debate that people have a picture that some have just set foot in Denmark. After all, these are people who have had unlimited residence permits in Denmark for 9 years. They are people who have provided for themselves and their families. These are people who meet some pretty tough Danish requirements. It is people who have passed a test of citizenship with detailed questions about our history, our culture and also our present, and what it is that binds us together. They have complied with the laws of the country and we have voted in favour of them here in the Folketing, we have voted in favour of them having citizenship. Then they come to this fine, local constitutional ceremony, which unfortunately there are some Left Mayors who say they will not be in charge of themselves, and it will be officials who will implement it. I think that's too bad. Then, of course, they will also shake hands there. It is really crazy, I think, that we should discuss that there are people who will spend so much time qualifying, put so much effort into being part of our Danish community, and then they won't shake hands. But should that situation arise and should it, as Mr. Henrik Dahl talks about, arise, that is to say, calling for a religious right not to show respect, whether it is because it is a female mayor or whatever it may be, it is a problem that we want to help look at, and then it may well be that we need legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101942	Mrs. Britt Bager.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102101947	No, it's not crazy that we're in the Folketing discussing this. It's crazy that a party that candidates to sit in the PM's office goes down and presses the yellow button. That's crazy. And it's crazy when Mrs. Astrid Krag stands and says to Mr. Kang. Mads Fuglede, that he is creative and brings this up in foreign policy when you have twice gone down in the past and voted yellow. You can't figure out what you want in the field of employment requirements for foreigners. That's where you guys go down and vote yellow. You can't figure out what you want when we talk about a limitation on how long foreigners can receive the Danish bonus, and now you can't find out whether to shake hands. It's crazy, Mrs. Astrid Krag, and it makes us stand here and are incredibly afraid of what's going to happen if you god forbid it... put you in the PM's office and make alien politics together with the Alternative, Enhedslisten, Radical Left and SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102102041	They don't say you and yours. You're indicting third person. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102102047	I don't know what to say. I don't think this discussion is crazy. I actually said in my rapporteur's speech that this is an important discussion because some of the things we cannot legislate on, but on which we depend still bind ourselves together in the future, are the strong values, the strong Danish values, and we have to talk about them, and we have to keep each other up to expectations about them. This is a very good example of a debate that I think has value. I'm not on that wagon that calls it silly and crazy. I think this is a good debate, but I also think it is a debate in which you, like Parliament, should be able to breathe once, step back and say: do we actually have confidence in the people who are going to manage these ceremonies? It is actually the local representatives of our democracy, it is our mayors, and indeed we have confidence in them. There's gonna be a shake on these fine ceremonies. I am absolutely convinced of that. We have to legislate where there are problems, and so there is not here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102102140	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Although the debate is sensitive, we must all respect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102102150	I shall try to do that, President. We legislate in this area for the obvious because it is no longer a matter of course. It's as simple as that. This handshake ceremony is the new citizen's meeting with Denmark because the mayor who gives the handshake represents Denmark. We shake hands with Denmark. I've been raised to shake hands and brought up that it's rude if you don't shake hands when you reach out the lab. But we also shake hands when it is solemn. When we were going to prom at the Queen, we shook hands because we just do. Because the queen doesn't hug. When my daughter received her diploma in high school a few years ago, she gave her hand in thanking the principal, because that's what you do when you get a diploma. It's as simple as that. When you get married in a church, you shake hands where the married couple make a promise to each other to be faithful until death separates them. And in fact, marriage is not legal until one has given one another a hand. All aspects are included: solemnity, gratitude and promise. That is what happens when a new citizen, a new Dane, is asked to shake hands. The event itself is solemn because it is something special to have a Danish citizenship. It is a precious gift to be invited inside and become part of the Danish people. I guess you just needed a handshake. That is why we are also grateful when we get citizenship. When you become part of the Danish people, yes, thankfulness is a matter of course. And then there is a promise in the hand, an acknowledgement that instead of all sorts of other previous loyalty relationships, they are now state or religious, namely Denmark and the Danes. When you shake hands with the mayor, you declare loyalty to the Danes and Denmark. So that's why you have to say well, but what if, for religious reasons, a Muslim doesn't want to shake hands? Yes, if, for religious reasons, the Muslim will not shake hands, it is because he considers the person who is to receive the handshake as an unclean in a religious sense, which must also mean that this Muslim considers the ordinary Dane to be unclean. But why do you want to be a part of Denmark at all? Why do you want to be a part of the Danish people at all if you consider the people you are among as unclean? It is in itself a litmus test of whether you will If you have the insulting view of ordinary Danes, then you should not have citizenship at all; you have not earned citizenship. It's as simple as that. I was raised to shake hands on various occasions, and I have also experienced the insulting when people do not want to shake hands. I believe that with this law we confirm that we meet the ordinary Denmark with openness and show that we want to be a part of it by shaking hands. We're voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102102615	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102102618	In fact, I very much agree with what the rapporteur says at the beginning of his rapporteur's speech, i.e. that we legislate on the obvious, because it is not of course anymore, or when it is not of course anymore. And when I listen to the mayors who have been involved in this debate, they all say that they are thus experiencing a hand being given. So I would just like to ask how the rapporteur comes to the conclusion that it is not of course any more in Denmark that we shake hands when it is reached in a context such as this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102102655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102102656	In fact, we are now discussing people who, for religious reasons, have refused to shake hands with a censor who refuses to shake hands with a student and so on. etc. In fact, we are discussing some issues that are out there, just as I can at least think of some that do not shake hands with women because they consider them to be unclean. If we then lift it out of the general discussion as to whether to shake hands or not, I would say that I shake hands when I come over to the Queen, I will also do so because the Queen does not give huggers; I will not expose her to that. But it's just very simple, that this is just something else. For now we are lifting it into the context that it belongs to, not only in terms of giving hands, but in terms of obtaining a citizenship, a Danish citizenship, where you solemnly state by the handshake that you acknowledge Denmark, you say thank you, while at the same time it is a declaration of loyalty and a declaration of solidarity with Denmark and the Danes. That's what's in the handshake. Is that too much? No, it's not. Is that what you're supposed to do? Yeah, you have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102102802	Here you go, Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102102804	Now I'm in charge, because I have this form that you usually sign here is the one in relation to allegiance. And it is true that there is usually one sitting at home with oneself and his e-Boks and signing that one swears allegiance and loyalty, and in this way I very much agree with the rapporteur and, incidentally, all the other parties to the agreement that it is important and proper that we get these local constitutional ceremonies and that it is important to celebrate and celebrate Danish citizenship, because it is but can the rapporteur not just confirm that we have not seen any examples of people who have gone through the long process of becoming a Danish citizen refusing to shake hands? We haven't seen any instances of that. I mean, these are some people who've worked hard to qualify for it, and shouldn't we get these ceremonies flying and see if there's a problem? I think the debate is important and the rapporteur must not be mistaken about that. I think it is really important that we also dare to discuss these fundamental issues in our society. We do not, historically, have a tradition of legislating on what is happening in other countries such as France or Switzerland, where there has been a greater clash of cultures over time. And that is why the debate is important and the rapporteur must not misunderstand me at all, but we have certainly not had any concrete examples in relation to citizenship, as we do not have these ceremonies today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102102922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102102924	No, but then the questioner himself has the answer. Well, we haven't had these cases because we haven't had these ceremonies where you shake hands before. It's as simple as that. But that's why I'd say I've been through people who say they're Danes and who don't want to shake hands. It's as simple as that. So, of course, we haven't had it before.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102102945	Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102102951	Thank you. I just get a little curious when the rapporteur very bombasticly claims that when Muslims do not shake hands with each other, it is because they consider the woman unclean. Others would say it's out of respect for the woman. I do not know what is right, but I am just wondering how the rapporteur can argue that it is precisely the rapporteur's version of what is the reason why different peoples have different ways of greeting each other that is the right one. What if there are other versions, aren't we on a slope?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103030	That's because my version is always the right one. What do you want me to tell you? I can ask about SF's party program and then ask if it can be the right version. That's a strange way to argue. I know that in Islam there are rules of purity which distinguish between clean and unclean and where there is separation between those who are clean and those who are unclean, and that also applies to the synagogue when you go in and so on. And I hope the rapporteur has also noted that, otherwise things will be bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103106	Here you go, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103108	Well, the coroners also distinguish between what's clean and what's unclean, and one of those I've known very well, actually at one point said that that handshake should be done away with, because it was a bit of a mess that we ran around and traded bacteria with each other. The Japanese use bowing instead of shaking hands. What's that supposed to mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103132	The Japanese are a very polite people. I've just been over there, and they shake hands out of respect for Westerners because they know you shake hands here. If the question is whether we should discuss what such a ceremony would be like in Japan, if they had such a ceremony, then I will say that I will not. Moreover, they have much stricter restrictions on citizenship; they distribute so few people that they think they are lying. But what is the matter is that in Denmark we shake hands. To the extent that it is a mess, I would say that when I come out to a birthday in the parish and the birthday raises my hand, I must remember to say: I will not say hello to you, because it is a mess. Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103226	Thank you. Then there is no further comment to Mr. Christian Langballe. Sir. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103240	Thank you for the floor. As has been explained, the proposal today is a partial implementation of the agreement on citizenship which the government entered into with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party back in June. It is an agreement which, among other things, is: In future, Danish citizenship must be conditional on participation in a so-called constitutional ceremony. The purpose of this draft law is to place the constitutional ceremonies in the hands of the municipal councils, and in this respect the proposal contains a proposal to authorise the Minister to lay down detailed rules for the organisation of these ceremonies. In addition, the proposal will entail amendments to the Danish Education Act as well as an increase in the fee for applying for Danish citizenship. In other words, although the proposal contains quite a lot of elements, it is primarily the handshake discussion that has run the headlines. It seems to me that part of the proposal is actually quite straightforward. The way we meet each other, the way we greet each other, is not indifferent to our Danish community. In a society like ours, where we meet each other with trust, mutual recognition and respect, giving hands is a natural thing. There are many ways to understand being Danish. One can understand it as a linguistic community, the Danish is the one who speaks Danish, and one can see it as a geographical community, for we are the ones who live here and speak Danish on these beech-light islands, but we are also a historical community that has developed rights that have changed over time. When I became a member of the Folketing, I signed that I would abide by the Constitution of the Kingdom, and I did so on top of the Basic Law of 1915, which some also call the Basic Law of 1912, and others call it the Basic Law of 1918, and there are even those who think that the Basic Law should be called the Basic Law of 1919, but that is the Constitution in which women were given the right to vote. We have tried a society in which women had no rights, where they were considered a strange appendage to the man who had a special place in society and where women were subordinate to everything. We have tried social control of women to a much greater extent than we really want to be aware of today, but we are a historical community that has developed and laid down, and inherited the constitution and rule of rule and law, and now we are not doing these things anymore. But, of necessity, we have now been challenged in such a way that things we would not normally legislate about, we legislate about now. One of the things that is quite obvious to me is that what we have inherited, what we have been brought up with, is a respect for women, which, unfortunately, is not natural for everyone. That is why we are now legislating on this, and that is why it is quite natural for the Left to vote in favour of the fact that, when you make your first civic duty, it is in the hands of the mayor or someone appointed by the mayor to perform that role. So the Left supports the agreement on citizenship and, of course, we also support the proposal. In this context, I would like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103623	Then there are some questions. Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103626	There are many things you might want to ask the rapporteur of the Left. We could also have a longer fundamental discussion about what has mainly driven the equality struggle through Danish history, whether it is the Folketing and the legislative button that have been the driving force, or whether it has actually been some people who organized themselves out in our society, but it may fall a little outside of the bill here. But I think it was a somewhat simplistic representation of the history of Denmark and the forces that have created the progressive values on which Denmark is based today. But let us reserve that discussion for another time. I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left, whether the Left, as a party, thinks that it has an equally high quality if it is an official who gives this handshake. In cases where a mayor of the Left will not give it and has asked an official to take charge of it, does it have the same symbolic meaning and the same symbolic value that it is an official as if it were the mayor?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103724	Of course it has. It is in the action and not in the person that one shows respect for the Danish values and shows that one takes the gift of becoming a Danish citizen so much on oneself that one makes efforts to become as Danish in the heart as one can now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103744	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103746	That was a very clear answer, including to the Left Mayors, who will not follow this law requirement for handshake. But let me ask you a slightly bigger question. When you listen to the rapporteur from the Left, it's as if the whole process around who gets citizenship is standing and falling with this handshake. If that is true, is it not an expression of the bankruptcy of the whole set of rules we have built up, where people spend many years qualifying to become a Danish citizen? You must have had an unlimited stay in Denmark for nine years, you must have supported yourself and yours, you must comply with the laws of the country, you must be able to speak at a high level, you must have taken a citizenship test, and we have actually voted in the Assembly for these people to have citizenship. If they can reach through the whole process of years and still be fundamentalists who reject Denmark and show it by not wanting to shake hands, have we not and our rules failed? And can the rapporteur of the Left tell us how many people are expected to lose their citizenship because they will not shake hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103847	When we look at this issue, which Mrs Astrid Krag previously referred to as something more hypothetical, I have to say that it is a very real problem. It is a real problem that we have many people among us who comply with the rules that are set for them and who do not want to. It is not so long ago that the Minister for Integration was subjected to the fact that a well-known Danish extremist would not shake hands with the Minister, even though he has Danish citizenship. So there is something that suggests that we need to do more to ensure that those who are here actually share the values we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103923	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102103927	I have to say that I was actually a little surprised that the SF rapporteur indicated that her ignorance of Islam is largely without holes. So what I think is fundamental with regard to Islam is that there are some purity rules that distinguish between clean and unclean, and so it dared not be a secret to us who know anything about it. I would just like to ask whether this is part of the rapporteur's consideration that obtaining citizenship and then shaking hands also means not for religious reasons, for example. Because you consider the mayor unclean, you can refuse to shake hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104014	Throughout the whole approach to the question of the weighting of religious perspective in this, it is essential for me to state that in that ceremony the important element is that the constitution is the one you take to you as the starting point for all the rights and duties you now take to you and that there are no religious regulations that can stand above what is stated in that constitution. Therefore, the religious perspective is something that must belong to a relationship between that individual and a greater power. In this situation, however, it is only the constitution that must be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104104	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104106	I mean, what I asked concerns just the fact that when we discuss Islam in terms of the purity rules that go with Islam, it is just a well-known matter that there is a division, a world picture where there are the clean and the unclean ones and that is just what I am asking. That is why I think it is important in this context that if you consider the Danes to be unbelievers and unclean and do not want to have anything to do with them, then you should not have any citizenship either. And if you do not want to shake hands and thus become part of Denmark, you should have no citizenship. That was the only question I had.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104143	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104145	I fully agree with the questioner about what he pointed out in his fine speech, namely that it can be really strange that you want to become part of a people that you have no respect for. And if you find your way to that disrespect through religious precepts or other things, I really am subordinate. In the very approach to becoming a citizen, there is something that to me is deeply bizarre. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104223	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104227	Thank you. Now there are many good things in the Constitution. Among other things, it says: It is also true that there is freedom of religion in Denmark. This bill is not an expression of backing, you might say. But I really want to ask you something else. For the rapporteur said here that the handshake does not matter. I simply agree with that, and that is so right. Because the handshake doesn't really matter. It means a great deal to all of us who have grown up being used to shaking hands, and to Danish culture etc. But when did we get there, that we should start to legislate on those things that are not indifferent? Because that's what we're doing here. We are beginning to legislate on a value and tradition that has lived for centuries without the need to legislate on it. Does the rapporteur doubt that we can maintain our traditions of shaking hands if we do not start to transpose this into legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104323	I think we started to think about legislating on this when we discovered that people came to our country, who had so little respect for women, that they would not be shaked hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104335	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104337	That is what the rapporteur said. He said that we had to be challenged to such an extent that we had to legislate on this. Can the rapporteur not be a little more specific? What exactly is the extent to which we have been challenged? What are these examples? What are these episodes? What are the facts that are behind us being challenged to such an extent that we have to legislate to shake hands with a constitutional ceremony?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104410	It is as a result of the immigration that Denmark has been to Denmark for decades that this issue has been raised. If there is such an exact time in the chronology that you can strike down, I doubt it. Now we are just here, where we are once again standing in the Chamber and legislating on something that we probably would not have legislated on earlier if we had not had that process.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104436	Thank you. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104440	Just like that for the sake of clarification, because we have many traditions in Denmark, we have many different ways of interacting with each other, and there is a difference between how close we are to each other and how well we like each other when we greet each other. In our own committees here in the Folketing we stand up when we have guests who we don't shake hands with. It may be for practical reasons and because we do not have time for it, but it is, after all, also a way of greeting. Is it really left-wing liberal to legislate on something as banal as how we greet each other? How does the Left think that it fits and matches with the value and to be the people that we are?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104522	As a representative of a liberal party which upholds liberal freedoms, I understand that liberal freedoms are of value only if the framework is protected around them. And when it is necessary, you have to legislate in order to protect those freedoms. What is sent as a signal when you do not want to shake hands with a woman is that the woman has no value. It is not a right that we support in this society, and that is why we need to legislate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104552	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104554	I would like to stress that it is also very, very important for me that women should be respected on an equal footing with all of us in this society and that women should be considered just as valuable as men. After all, that is an electoral interpretation. Sir. Christian Langballe chooses to say it's about the woman being unclean. Others would say it's out of respect for the woman. So there are different versions of why we choose to greet each other in different ways. What is the rapporteur thinking? How do we know that this is exactly the right justification that the Left has chosen to use in relation to this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104637	In other words, when you look at the way in which you support initiatives to help women of other ethnic origin to gain easier access to the equality that we see as of course in this country, I am surprised that speaking from the left is so often prepared to beat the drum for these rights, but when it comes to protecting them in the real world, you do not want to legislate whether you can neutralize the female sex in the form of garments, nor do you want to take action to correct the men who do not even want to shake hands with a woman. It's just something that makes me wonder.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104729	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102104740	Thank you. Nationality is an important right for citizens who live and live their lives here in Denmark. It is the right to vote in parliamentary elections, access to the Danish passport, which makes it easy to travel, and for many people in particular it is an important symbolic recognition that they are full members of Danish society. For Enhedslisten, therefore, it is an important goal that people who have permanent residence and are likely to live and live their lives in this country can acquire citizenship. It is an important tool for integration, for cohesion, and it is important for our democracy that as many people as possible contribute to the composition of the Folketing. That is why we want citizenship to be easier to achieve than it is today. Therefore, we also fundamentally disagree with the agreement reached by the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party before the summer holidays, which in a number of respects makes it more difficult to obtain citizenship. The agreement will mean that the group of citizens who live and live in this country but who do not have citizenship will grow. The bill here contains only a small part of the overall agreement on the new rules on citizenship. There is the proposal for a new ceremony in the municipalities, including the very controversial one, and we have already discussed it in here, calling for a handshake. There is a proposal to increase the fee to apply for citizenship to triple it. Finally, there is a requirement for language centres to all absenteeism, testing etc. in connection with Danish teaching to adult foreigners must be registered and stored for 30 years. Let that be said right away and I don't think it's a secret that Enhedslisten can't support this bill. We believe that the new municipal ceremony is an unnecessary obstacle to becoming a national of Denmark. There is already a very long processing period associated with the application process. Now we must wait further for a ceremony which, moreover, will not be personally informed of when it will take place. This is to be discovered for yourself in the local newspaper or on the municipality's website. Then you have to take time off from work to show up and shake hands. That is my clear impression, and it is the clear impression of Enhedslisten that this is primarily about the fact that it must be harder to obtain citizenship in Denmark than it already is. Then there is the whole discussion about the handshake. And there are now not things that are too small or too detailed for the government to include not one, but two self-appointed liberal parties to think that rules should be made for it. You can mean what you want, that some because of religion will not shake hands. Personally, I think that this is incomprehensible and rather strange, but that it must be a requirement to obtain citizenship, I disagree with it in a vertical way. In my opinion, this is an expression of mind-control, which requires certain attitudes and views to become a national of Denmark or, as in this case, where discrimination is based on a particular religious practice. I also think that is why there are several consultation responses, for example. from the Inner Mission, the Catholic Church in Denmark and the Baptist Church in Denmark, which warns against going this way. I think it is a good thing that several bourgeois mayors have said clearly against this type of policy. Unfortunately, however, I note that it has not impressed the government, which is still pushing for it. On the other hand, I would like to acknowledge that the Social Democratic Party does not support this section. After all, it gives hope that something can change if the majority of the people change. Similarly, in the Enhedslisten, we believe that it is quite unreasonable that the bill should provide for a threefold increase in the fee for applying for citizenship. 3,800 kr. is a very high amount, especially if you have a low-paid job, are ill or are a pensioner or the like. And especially for those who are ill, it is an amount that comes on top of the expensive medical declarations. This means that in practice it is very difficult to obtain citizenship if you are ill or have a disability, and I really think that is both unfair and unusable. So to sum up: The Enhedslisten believes that we should go a completely different way and set up rules that allow easier access to citizenship. And we don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102105206	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102105208	Well, there you can just see how different we look at things. The rapporteur is very outraged that one should take time off from work to get to receive Danish citizenship. Well, then why don't you put it up in a vending machine out on the street, then you can pull it? Why not? That would be the best thing. So, as far as discrimination is concerned, I have heard that it should be discriminatory to say that people should shake hands. Well, this is quite the reverse world. That people who refuse to shake hands because they regard others as unclean are discriminated against by law enforcement because it says that if these people want citizenship, they must indeed shake hands. I would also like to say that you do not need a Danish citizenship. You do not have to apply for it at all. You can live and live in Denmark so fine and well without citizenship. Nobody wants people to have citizenship. They can just not get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102105312	Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102105313	Thank you. I think it's funny that sir. Christian Langballe notices, or at least interprets, that what I am most outraged about is taking time off from work. I can promise you that's not what I'm most outraged about. I use this as an example of how this bill is an expression of the fact that it must become more difficult for everyone to acquire citizenship in Denmark, and we simply do not want us to go in this direction in the Enhedslisten. As I also said, and as I hope Mr. Christian Langballe heard, so I think it is quite natural to shake hands, but I do not think it should be a requirement to obtain citizenship. There are already plenty of demands. Moreover, there is already a ceremony going on in here on the day of citizenship, which I think is a very, very nice and excellent celebration of all those who have acquired citizenship. So I think this bill is totally unnecessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102105404	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102105405	When I mention the thing about taking time off from work, it's kind of because it's in the tail of Enhedslisten's view of citizenship. It's something you just have to pull in a vending machine. In my time in the Folketing I have never heard Enhedslisten come up with a single so to speak view of what it takes to get a Danish citizenship never! It's always something weaning, and it's always too difficult, etc. etc. I have never heard an honest consideration of what it means to have a Danish citizenship, so why it is special. That is why I understand that the rapporteur does not want to take time off from work, but instead can simply pull it into a vending machine. That's quite reasonable, given what Enhedslisten thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102105451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102105453	Well, some of what we think should be done in concrete terms, I would say to Mr. Christian Langballe, in other words, is changing the basic law so that it becomes easier to obtain citizenship, and so that it is no longer necessarily a bill that has to be dealt with in here, which we also have to do in a few moments, but that it will be a much more administrative process as we know it from other countries. I think that is actually a very concrete proposal. Then I would just like to add that it is something special to obtain Danish citizenship. I also said so in my rapporteur's speech. It is essential for integration to be achieved, for example. may participate in democracy, vote in parliamentary elections. I think democracy is quite an important Danish value.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102105530	Thank you. Then there are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102105540	Thank you for the floor. Bill L 80 implements an agreement concluded in the summer of 2018 between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. Now we hear that in the meantime the Social Democratic Party has got cold feet or yellow fingers and, of course, I regret that. The essence of the agreement was that applicants for Danish citizenship should participate in a ceremony where they signed that they would comply with Danish law, including the Constitution. Basic Danish values and legal principles and as part of our democratic governance should be respected, and then a representative of the authorities should be given a hand. In passing, I have to say that an expert on constitutional law might wonder a little bit, that is, that a future citizen should be given an obligation to comply with the constitution, because it is not a law that citizens must observe, but a law that the three branches of government must observe. But there is no doubt that they must respect the constitution, and of course we are all in favour of it. So let's leave that alone. It's a really good deal. After the agreement had been concluded, the problem arose that some future citizens would not shake hands with people of the opposite sex. So we are correcting that now, and we are doing it in the only right way: we say that without handshaking no citizenship. For me, therefore, this is a matter of principle. A future citizen has just signed that he or she will respect the constitution, and the next thing he or she will do is say, but by the way, I will not abide by a rule adopted by the Folketing. It's a completely wrong way to start your life as a Dane. I have already referred to section 70 of the Constitution, where, among other things, there is no doubt that it is not possible for the Commission to take a decision on this matter. states that because of his creed, no one can escape the fulfilment of any ordinary civic duty. I have to say, then, that to abide by the rules of the game which the Danish Parliament has exalted to law, one must, if anything, describe as an ordinary citizen's duty. One can say that the handshake is a very elegant test of whether the applicant for Danish citizenship is willing to put into practice what she or he has signed up to. Of course, if he does not wish to put it into practice, citizenship cannot be granted; that is quite obvious. Parliament must be very vigilant when it comes to the granting of special rights. The whole of modern democracy came into being in a fight against that is why we should not say yes when demands are made for special rights. So today we say no to religious people being granted exemption from section 70 of the Constitution, that is our duty as members of the Folketing. I am surprised that the majority is not larger, but I am glad that my party belongs to it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102105907	There are brief comments, first from Mrs Astrid Krag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102105911	Yes, and a new voice in the chair is welcome. Now I'm getting a little confused, 'cause that sounds like sir. Henrik Dahl, as if, after the agreement has been concluded, we have held some ceremonies and then there have been problems with people who would not shake hands. So I just want to be absolutely sure that we agree that these ceremonies haven't been held yet, and that we're going into the fall of 2019 before we get one of these ceremonies started for the first time. Secondly, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur, where the rapporteur from the otherwise very liberal party believes that we should start regulating handshakes. If it is such a major problem in our society that we have to protect our freedoms by law, then it must also apply in some other areas of principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102105953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102105956	To the first part of the question, I can say that there has been a legitimate doubt as to whether the agreed ceremony can be carried out, and that is what we are responding to. Secondly, despite the fact that I have been engaged in adult education for many years of my life, it has been a failure in this House today. Because I have not succeeded in conveying to the adult Mrs Astrid Krag an understanding of what I am really saying. I say that the whole principle of this matter is that, when we have signed up to defending the Constitution, we should never allow a religious justification to be used to obtain a derogation from the law. That is also why members of Jehovah's Witnesses, for example. can't get away from serving their service... you can't use your religion as a reason for being exempt from the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102110059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102110100	Then I understand better this talk about the doubts as to whether the ceremonies could be carried out. That doubt has arisen because there have been mayors out saying that they are opposed to the fact that we have to regulate in detail by law how these ceremonies are to be conducted. So it is those who have raised this question over the last few months, and now they know about the rapporteur from the Left that it is just as good for the Left that it is an official who shakes his hand as it is the mayor. I think that's a little sad. I'm really looking forward to these ceremonies, and I think they're gonna be really nice. And I just want to say to Mr. Simpson... Henrik Dahl, that I really think he's a big enough educator. It's not so much it's more that it's been turned around in Mr. Henrik Dahl's argument. It is not, of course, a question here that some people believe that some should have special rights and be granted special rights. Of course you have to shake hands. We also say this clearly on the part of the Social Democrats. The flag we are raising is what the Folketing should use legislative power for, and we just think it should be reserved to solve actual problems that exist in our society. I tried to ask the rapporteur of the Left about the scale of this. I did not get an answer to that, but now the Liberal Alliance rapporteur may be able to answer it. How large is the scope, is it expected, of people who do not get their citizenship after having qualified for many, many years, after we have actually voted in favour of them having citizenship because they meet all other requirements? How many people, hits on the bag, are assessed by the Liberal Alliance, so afterwards they will not get their citizenship because they will not shake hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102110224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102110225	The question of how often a paragraph should be used is never part of the Liberal Alliance's consideration of whether a paragraph is useful. We also have paragraphs about high treason and many other things that we hardly ever use, but I am glad we have them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102110243	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102110248	I understand that for a great deal in the Folketing it is something completely new and therefore obviously something you do not think is a problem, that there are people in Denmark who distinguish between the clean and the unclean, clean and unclean, which lies, I would say, in Islam's DNA. It is a religion that distinguishes between the pure and the unclean, the clean and the unclean. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur has taken any thought, including with regard to the handshake, in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102110319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102110322	We have considered the matter very carefully in the Liberal Alliance because, as I have also mentioned, the occasion may at first sight seem not so great, but the principle that we are discussing is very great, because what we are discussing is the issue of granting special rights. Although it was not known substance for Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, the division into halal and haram is a completely crucial part of Islamic theology. We will not give a special right to the distinction to take precedence over Danish legislation or to be able to apply to people who are not Muslims. This is a very unfortunate precedent, and it is even mildly said, which will then be set. So these are important principles we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102110413	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102110418	Then I would like to ask about the simple. You could say a handshake is just a handshake. No, it's not. I also believe that in the handshake there is at least a promise and a commitment and a declaration of solidarity with Denmark, the Danish constitution, etc. That is to say, it indicates that you are declaring solidarity with the country in which you have become a citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102110451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102110455	I noticed Mr. Christian Langballe's very insightful review of what the handshake really is for a legal and theological size in Denmark. I thought it was a valuable review. I agree with it. What is absolutely crucial for us has been the question of whether one can break Article 70 of the Constitution and say: I will not abide by the rules that exist because of my region. There must be:
ParlaMint-DK_20181102110527	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no more brief comments. And welcome to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102110537	Thank you. I would like to start by reading from the sentence in the comments to this bill, where the handshake case, I was about to say, is described. It says that the people indicated in the bill are putting out a handshake... without glove palm on the palm of the hand• with the authorities' representatives to celebrate and specifically mark the moment of the participants' lives when they become Danish citizens. We just leave it there, but I wanted to read it out, because when you hear it, you think you're in a bad movie, that is when this is something that we in the Danish Parliament write into the comments on a bill, that is when it's so detailed that we think we should decide on our Danish citizens. Of course, a handshake should not be a requirement for citizenship. It should not, and it is not, because it does not matter, as I also mentioned to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Mads Birded but because it matters. Exactly because it matters, we should not legislate on it. Of course, if you do not want to shake hands with a woman, it is an attitude that is of course so. The practicing Muslim, who will not shake hands with a woman, will probably think that it is the view that one will respect the virtue of the woman and rein in the sexuality of the man. Others, like me, would say that it is an equal opportunities challenge that a man will not shake hands with a woman. So no matter how we understand it, it is the expression of an opinion. But in these times we see a crusade for the preservation of the Danish values, which the Danish People's Party in particular, the government and, in part, the Social Democrats also define them, that is, by now we have to shake hands to obtain citizenship, no longer have to cover our faces, preferably eat meatballs in kindergarten, by forcing our children into a nursery if they live in special places, and by discrimination against our citizens, depending on where they live in the country. But when we stare so blindly at what the Danish values are, then we forget the most important of them all, namely free-mindedly, that we in this country have a very special tradition of respecting and tolerating attitudes that differ from the common perception of religious and civil norms and traditions. That's exactly what this debate is all about. If women are not treated equally by people who have a very traditional and patriarchal view of gender, this should not be neglected. It does not matter, it certainly needs to be debated, and it must be challenged by us politicians, by the citizens, by the media, and that also applies when a man does not want to shake hands with a woman. Of course it has to be challenged, but the phenomenon is and remains an expression of an attitude and an attitude that is as foreign and societal as many of the other divergent attitudes that we also tolerate in Danish society. The fact that we do not necessarily agree with positions that differ from those of the majority is, of course, what forms the foundation of Danish democracy and the democratic pillars on which we stand: minority protection, freedom of religion, freedom of expression and the right to live as long as it does not harm others and as long as we live in accordance with our criminal law and our constitution. After all, it is the four minds that stand chiseled out in the Parliament's Walking Hall: liberalism, generosity, uprightness and lawlessness. So no matter how foolish and medieval you find some tradition or attitude, it only makes the community stronger when we contain it and confront it critically. We can just look at Denmark. We have protected Jews for centuries as minorities in Denmark. We have not banned Hizb ut-Tahrir, the Danish Association or DKP • however much we as politicians may disagree with the associations, we have tolerated their existence. We are the first country to allow pornography. We are the first country in the world to allow homosexuals to enter into a registered partnership. We are the first country to have removed transsexuality from the list of mental illnesses in the WHO. Denmark is one of the world's best and most implemented democracies, and we are, precisely because we do not suppress by law. We do not suppress attitudes or rituals by law, but we challenge them with our words, and we must continue to do so. That's why this bill is a basic showdown, we think, with that tradition. It is an attempt to banish minority attitudes from the general community, but we all know that attitudes do not disappear because we close the door or try to put a lid on the pot. We believe it as we sit back complacent and rub our beards while our critical sense and our desire to debate and challenge attitudes become dull and dull. Because when we legislate and say it is forbidden, we can sit back and do not have to take the democratic debate that is so necessary for our society. So what kind of country are we left with? I think we should all think about that a little bit. So we are voting against this bill for many good reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102111054	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102111103	So, just a few basic considerations of principle regarding the rapporteur's speech: there is a reason for inclusiveness, and the reason for inclusiveness is that the Danes have grown together as a people over a thousand years. A long, long process of processing, where at some point one has decided to open the locks and open the borders and believe that Denmark remains intact, and that one should not protect the people's rule, that one should no longer protect oneself, because one looks very much at the fact that there is a difference between what kind of cultures one comes with and what kind of religions one carries in the bag. There is that discussion we would not have had if we had not had that immigration. And that is why we will be discussing the things we do because of the immigration that we have had. That's the thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102111226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102111230	I therefore fully agree with the rapporteur that the more people who come to our country and come from other cultures, traditions and habits, the greater the opportunity to say that we are debating and discussing our basic democratic principles and what kind of democracy we want to live in in Denmark and the attitudes that are at stake. Of course there is. But it is only healthy for democracy, and I believe that where we fundamentally disagree is precisely what the rapporteur himself says: that the Danish values are under threat in the last few decades, as the rapporteur believes. I do not think that is the case at all. I do not see that the Danish community, the Danish values, the handshake, the Christmas traditions, the Easter traditions and all that lies in our Danish culture are under threat. It's alive and well. Then new people come to our country, some take part in the traditions that others do not, but nothing is threatened at all. We are living well with the culture that we have had for centuries. Then I just disagree that our culture is under threat.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102111325	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102111329	Yes, yes, that is clear; it reflects, as it were, the political positions on each side. So it kind of gives itself. Then there's just one thing. We're talking about a ceremony where people get citizenship. It's not a random thing to shake hands. It is not a coincidence, but it is that one expresses a loyalty to Denmark that one expresses the loyalty that comes from the fact that now one has actually acquired citizenship. That is why legislation is being introduced. It's not just any ceremony. It is not just any company that is going on around Denmark, where we go in and legislate. It is citizenship that we legislate on, it is something as fine and noble as citizenship. Do you have to shake hands when you have acquired citizenship? Yeah, you have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102111413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102111417	No, you don't. For basically it is all about "and I fully agree with Mrs Astrid Krag that we also have to see it out there, and that we must at all see whether it ever happens" that the situation arises, that there is a man who does not want to shake hands with a female mayor in Denmark, does that mean that he will not live by Danish democracy and values and live as a perfectly reasonable citizen of Danish society? It can be said that the comparison or comparison between that, I think, is at least left for the rapporteur's party to prove to the rest of us. But another thing is that if it should happen, it is a hundred times better that the mayor in question says to the person concerned: Would you like to come to my mayor's office, and then I would like to talk to you a little bit about why you really don't want to shake my hand, let's have a conversation about this, let's try to get some perspectives on the track, not because I have to change your attitude, but because I want to challenge it. It is useless to legislate on it, because we are not getting the conversations in play. What makes our whole country live on is the democratic conversation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102111515	Thank you very much to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. There are no more brief comments and a warm welcome to Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102111525	Thank you for that, President. Yesterday I was negotiating in the Ministry of Health, and I was thinking of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. For in the toilet there is a poster from the central section for hospital hygiene: how to carry out proper washbasins. Hands and wrists are moistened before the soap comes on, the soap/washing cream is distributed thoroughly, wash thoroughly for at least 15 seconds, cause the soap off, and dip your hands completely dry, close the tap with the paper towel. When I come to think of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, it is of course because the government is now making a proposal in the Chamber with the same thoroughness, which says not only that one should shake hands to obtain citizenship, but also how one should shake hands, and I quote from the bill: "It is also intended that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration will use the provision to lay down requirements that one or more representatives from the municipality in connection with the ceremony meet face to face with the participants and exchange a handshake with the participants without a handshake against the palm of the hand. So it has to be without gloves, and it has to be palm-to-hand, not such a fairy handshake, where you just grab your fingers. I think it's crazy that we have a government that spends our time in here to legislate on this kind of thing, but it's like what it is. Because we are discussing so many things in the Danish Parliament, but that officials' time has also been spent sitting and formulating exactly how to give hands, and that afterwards you will force the municipalities to spend time doing it exactly this way, I do not understand. Because what kind of problem are you trying to solve? Imagine if instead we had spent our time doing away with social control, abolishing savings on education, getting more educators in our day care centres or solving other real problems. Radical Left votes no.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102111802	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe, and he is from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102111806	I would say that it must be easy to be Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and, by the way, to be a counterpart to the Radicals, because I think it is absolutely fantastic to display one's own ignorance in this way. Actually, I think it is. It gets a little comical, that is, lifting it out of any context and saying that it is just a matter of hygiene regulations. As if that were the case. The fact that the fact that you go and say thank you for something for a ceremony must be compared to some hygiene regulations that are in a toilet is therefore far-fetched. I do not really understand it, and the rapporteur from the alternative said the same thing. I just think it's fucked up. Now we are trying to get some objectivity into the debate and try to discuss what is the framework for this, that is, that it is citizenship that you receive, that you show up and that there is an official person who grants citizenship, that you shake hands and say thank you for having received this citizenship. Is that important? Yes, it is in our optics, because citizenship is extremely important. We believe that far too many citizenships have been granted to people who have not earned it. So now we are actually starting to take it seriously at a ceremony that is legal, for how to do it. Then the Radicals begin to talk about how, according to the Radicals and a note in a toilet, you should wash yourself when you're done with it, and that's weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102111938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102111941	What is strange is that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, thinks that you should make a law on how to shake hands in order to obtain citizenship. We in the Radical Left fully agree with the Danish People's Party that we must of course shake hands. I'd go crazy myself if there was a man facing me and wouldn't shake my hand because I'm a woman. I'd be crazy about it. But we're not gonna make a law about exactly how to shake hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112010	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112014	Well, that's an assumption I'm making. I understand if radical Islamists think that it might well be that it was the Radical Left that should be voted on. Because when we have this discussion, the ideological prejudice comes from the Radicals that this is no problem at all. It's not a problem. It is no problem that there are some in our society who distinguish between the clean and the unclean. It is no problem that something is clean and unclean. This is no problem at all, let us discuss what is essential, let us discuss social control and all sorts of other abstract bullshit, because it is essential. I don't think it is. I think that the discussion we have here is extremely important because it concerns Denmark and what getting a Danish citizenship means, and it is much, much more important than some hygiene regulation that is in a toilet. So it is something that matters, both to the person who gets it and to the Danish society that we have now and in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112118	In fact, I do not believe that there are any fundamentalists who would vote on the Radical Left. Because unlike the Danish People's Party, we are actually willing to set aside money to support those women in their fight for liberation. Because if you want to move something, you should not make laws about how to shake hands, but then we should make sure that we support the forces that exist to be liberated so that we can stop some men from thinking that they will not shake hands with women.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112149	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112155	What I have is not so much a question as it is just a brief comment. I would just like to thank Mrs Lotte Rod for the rapporteur's speech, which... children must not play with matches, Radical Left must not play with foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112230	Fortunately, it is up to the electorate to decide how big one should be in the Folketing and who will be in government, and back to the Liberal Alliance I just want to say: I really am very surprised that the Liberal Alliance can come up with the need to legislate on how to shake hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112255	The questioner? Thank you very much to Mrs Lotte Rod. There are no more brief comments and a warm welcome to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112307	Thank you very much, President. SF is of course interested in integrating new Danes into the country in the best way possible. We also think it is important that we all meet each other properly with respect for each other, and we should be careful not to become too narrow-minded and dictating when it comes to what is customary in Denmark. That is why the requirement to handshake citizenship is also completely out of proportion. A handshake is a sign of respect in Denmark, just as a buck is a sign of respect in Japan, and since Denmark has gender equality, I also do not like it if religion dictates that you should not show respect for other genders by shaking hands with them. But what I like should not dictate the general requirements of what we demand to become a citizen of Denmark. Here we must make universal demands on language and integration, yes, but it will not be on my watch that the SF will require a certain physical demonstration of the latter ritual itself. In practice, I can't even imagine mayors standing out there in real life demanding this gesture. In other words, the law is a sign of what happens when Christiansborg sets out to run retail and forgets that it is not they who have to deal with these too detailed rules in practice. That is why the SF is also voting against the proposal, regardless of whether the proposal remains within the area of human rights. Moreover, SF is also opposed to increasing the fee for applying for Danish citizenship in order to finance the costs associated with increased administration. We do not believe that Danish citizenship should depend on economics, but instead on whether the new Danes are able to live up to the rules of Danish society and commit themselves to becoming part of the Danish community. An increase in the fee would also exclude certain groups from applying for citizenship. We want a fair and equal society where there is room for us all, regardless of religion, and therefore the SF votes against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112523	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112527	Now I could understand from the rapporteur that it is only a question of how I interpret Islam. I can say that the Iranian ambassador refused to shake hands with the President of the Danish Parliament at the New Year reception and therefore ended up staying away. Now I know that the Iranian ambassador is not a Danish citizen, but it only poses the problem that someone who cares about these Muslim clean rules may refuse to shake hands with even the President of the Danish Parliament, even though he is an ambassador to Denmark. I just think it exhibits what we're in. And that's not just my interpretation. That is certainly the interpretation of the Iranian ambassador, and perhaps it is also the interpretation of the Iranian priesthood, because it is in Islam's DNA. Then I say how you deal with it in the SF, and then you start talking about the Japanese bowing, but they also shake hands, and they don't mind touching other people who come from other countries. Actually, they haven't. They'd like to shake hands. They also want to give a pat on the shoulder etc. etc., because that's how polite they are. If you do not want to shake hands in Denmark, you should not have Danish citizenship. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112655	I have, of course, taken note of the rapporteur's views and, in a way, I share the view that handshaking is a normal way of greeting in Denmark. And there should be no difference as to whether it is men or women that you want to shake hands with. That's not what this is about. This is about the fact that this is a detailed regulation in the law, which is just so fucked up. I wonder what proposals for austerity the Danish People's Party might make next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112728	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112732	We have some things on the slip, but they're all rational and reasonable. That's why it's fine as it is. I just want to make it clear that receiving a Danish citizenship is not just at some little cozy ceremony going on around Denmark. Having a Danish citizenship is becoming a part of Denmark, and that is why you have to shake hands. That's all it needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112803	I think that this bill really helps to stigmatise certain people with a certain religion • alone in the light of the way we are discussing it. On the other hand, I do not believe that the draft law will prevent very many people from obtaining Danish citizenship, fortunately. So it is really a huge waste of time that we are standing here and discussing this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112821	Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112826	What will be the position of the Socialist People's Party in other situations where religiously justified demands will be made to be exempted from Danish legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112845	I am not actually quite sure that I understand what the rapporteur means. However, if the rapporteur believes that we in Denmark must respect the Danish constitution and that it should all regardless of religious beliefs, then it is SF's position in that context.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112855	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112902	I was glad that the rapporteur was finally able to come to terms with the basic law, because it is in Article 70 of the Constitution that religion can be used as a pretext for exemption from compliance with Danish law. How hard will the SF defend that paragraph of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102112923	I do not believe that religion can be used to ask for exemption from the Danish constitution. However, a handshake will not become part of Danish legislation until the government appears to intend to adopt the proposal as it stands today. I think it's a waste of time. I wonder what the next proposal will be in terms of how we will regulate people's behaviour in detail, and I think that is really distasteful. I think it is important that we deal with how people can live together. We must also make demands on each other on the way we are together and also recognise respect for gender and gender equality, and we will fight for this in the SF, both when it is the religions that prevent it, but also if it is the case that the legislation should do so. I just think that one has failed on one's detailed regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102113009	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. There are no more brief comments. Then I am pleased to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102113023	Thank you. I would like to begin by saying that I think that Mr. Christian Langballe's speech today as rapporteur is one of the best speeches I have ever heard in this Chamber. I think it was a matter of principle and I think it raised the debate to a level that the debate has not really lived up to since then, unfortunately. But it is one of the rapporteur's speeches that one might wish that the President could give extra speaking time so that one could hear a little more. But I would also like to thank you for a good debate, I think, in some ways, at least about this bill. After all, on 29 June the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party concluded a new agreement on citizenship. The agreement on citizenship strengthens the requirements for Danish citizenship and, in my opinion, we have reached a very good agreement which makes it clear that it is a very special privilege to become a Danish citizen. It is simply a declaration of confidence from Danish society to be granted Danish citizenship, and as an applicant one must of course show that one wants Denmark. With the agreement, therefore, we also make greater demands on oneself to support oneself, that one should have made an active and real effort to learn Danish, and we are hard-pressed when it comes to crime. The agreement also means that in future the award of Danish citizenship must be conditional upon the applicant's participation in a constitutional ceremony. And for the ceremony, the applicant must sign to comply with Danish legislation, including, of course, the Constitution, and respect fundamental Danish values and legal principles, including Danish democracy. The applicant must also show respect for Danish values at the ceremony and respect the representatives of the authorities. The purpose of the draft law is to place these constitutional ceremonies in the hands of the municipal councils, and in this respect the bill contains a proposal to authorise the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to lay down detailed rules for the organisation of these ceremonies at any time. The aim of the bill is to amend an authorisation clause in the Danish Education Act so that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is authorised to lay down rules on the registration of all foreigners participating in a Danish education programme. Finally, the draft law aims to increase the fee for applying for Danish citizenship in order to finance the increased administration resulting from a number of elements of the citizenship agreement. What has, of course, filled the media most, and certainly here in the Parliamentary Chamber today, in connection with the legislative proposal, has been the whole debate on the handshake. It will be part of the constitutional ceremonies that representatives of the municipality meet face to face with the participants and exchange a handshake with the participants. When handshakes are required in connection with the ceremonies, it is to celebrate and specifically mark the very special moment in the life of the participants where they become Danish citizens. Based on a basic Danish cultural standard, which the government considers to be an expression of, the applicant, at the same time as this symbolic act, will express a special respect for Danish society, which, in the view of the government, should be associated with becoming a Danish citizen. At the same time, the person will symbolically signal that he has taken on the Danish society and set of values. On this basis, I must also say that frankly, it is with great surprise that I have followed the debate here today. I simply find it hard to understand that the Socialists, who were part of this summer's agreement to tighten up the requirements for Danish citizenship, cannot vote in favour of this bill. But, on the other hand, we will not vote against it either. You can ask yourself that. It is a bit as if the Socialists are not fully aware of the leg they should stand on. Let me sum up: the draft law provides for the possibility for the Minister who is present at any time to make the specific demands for the organisation of the constitutional ceremonies, including, of course, the provision of a framework which has the necessary solemnity and where those who are granted Danish citizenship naturally act with the necessary respect and dignity to the representatives of the country which is now granting them citizenship. And here, a few months after a very hot summer day we entered into the birthright agreement, the Social Democrats suddenly cannot find out whether this should be ensured, by defining what in my optics can be defined as a completely natural cultural standard in Denmark, sticking their hand forward and greeting respectfully with a handshake in order to mark the exact moment of an applicant's life where he becomes a Danish citizen. From then on, you can call yourself a Dane. Fortunately, the government and the Danish People's Party agree to take the award of Danish citizenship so seriously that we agree that the marking with a handshake in this context is of course also quite right. I would just like to say that, while the Socialists are trying to find their feet, I think that, in all silence, we must also say to the Socialists that if the Socialists one day get the responsibility of government, and if Mrs Mette Frederiksen one day becomes the Prime Minister, I simply think that she is going to make major decisions, and perhaps also decisions that can be difficult and in my optics also more difficult than agreeing with herself whether it is a very common form of association in Denmark and a very common cultural standard in Denmark to shake hands with each other. It's just for reflection. I have a rather rhetorical desire to ask whether the Social Democrats really intend to lift the demand for handshake once again if they are to be given government responsibility. I think that might be interesting. However, in these words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the debate here today and to thank the parties who take the granting of citizenship so seriously that they support this bill. I think that we have had some exciting debates where there was also a great deal of seriousness about precisely the granting of citizenship, because it is a great gift. It is the greatest gift, and it is also a declaration of trust that you obtain when you can call yourself a Dane. And of course, there are strict requirements and formal requirements to achieve this citizenship, because becoming a Dane is something special.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102113844	Thank you. Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102113849	Thank you for that, thank you to the Minister for the speech. In order not to repeat the more ideological debate, because I think we have had it during the rapporteurs' speeches, I would really like to ask some very specific questions. The first is that if it turns out after the bill has entered into force and we have had the first ceremonies, and it has been a few years, or perhaps a handful of years, that there has never ever been a case of a person who has not wanted to shake hands with a mayor or a female representative, is the Minister prepared to look at this bill again to abolish this requirement of handshake?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102113930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102113935	I can definitely say no to that. However, I am very grateful for the confidence that I might be in the office of ministers in two years' time. So I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102113945	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102113949	We'll see about that. The second question is quite specific, too, and that is something we talked about yesterday. What if, because of a physical disability, a person cannot shake hands if, for example, he cannot shake hands. do not have a hand or if you have a burned hand or something where you are unable to shake hands for such specific physical reasons? Has it been considered in relation to what it will have implications for the bill and for citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114015	No, and I'd say that if you don't have a hand, you obviously can't shake hands. But then you have to show respect for those authorities who are on the spot anyway. I think it is a very long way to go if you disown yourself in order to avoid shaking hands, so I quite simply do not think you get into that case. I just want to say that. Having said all that, you can try to ridicule this, but it's not funny, because it's really serious. It is very serious that at the moment of hand-shaking, we are actually making the promise, as Mr Tugendhat has said. Christian Langballe also said. To give the promise to Denmark is a great moment, and before that one has signed that one will comply with the constitution, that one takes the Danish values into account. I think that is a very, very big thing. So you can try to do this a little cheerful and a little merry, but for me this is not at all cheerful, for me this is about something very fundamental, namely that you have chosen Denmark. One has chosen to be a Dane, and one must, of course, also show respect for the country and the officials who are currently granting citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114133	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114135	Thank you. I would like to start by saying to the Minister that I noticed that the Minister was in the Chamber when I gave my rapporteur's speech, so the Minister knows what the Social Democratic Party thinks. And that's what's been going through this whole process again. Of course you have to shake hands. But we also think, in all silence, that the Folketing should govern itself in relation to what we legislate and that we should legislate where there are problems. And that is why I cannot completely cancel the Minister's fears, because it certainly has a specific purpose: the fear that some people may have that the Social Democrats will not be able to use the legislative tool in places where we have some real problems that threaten our society in terms of influx, poor integration, social control, and, moreover, we are constantly involved with the Minister. This is probably not the discussion that the Minister would like to have. I have to ask the Minister: there has been a lot of disagreement about this proposal in the Minister's own party, most recently at the press conference that was after the government seminar when this season started. There the Prime Minister said that if the municipalities didn't think it was obvious that these ceremonies were locally anchored I think it makes good sense to put them under state control. In today's Politiken we have a journalist who cares about this, and the rapporteur from the Left, Mads Fuglede, says that he is not able to interpret what the Prime Minister meant when he said it. It is very concrete to say that if the municipalities do not want the task, then we put it under state control. I assume, however, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has spoken to his party chairman, the Prime Minister of the country, in this context, and has thus decided not to comply with the Prime Minister's promise to place the ceremonies under state auspices if the municipalities did not give them up, and we can read quite clearly in the KL's hearing response to this legislation that it is considered more obvious that they were under state control. I support their locality. I'd like to say that. But I would like to hear from the Minister what has been done to back up the promise made by the Prime Minister at the press conference.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114334	We have by no means backed anything, because what the Prime Minister says is that if the municipalities do not want to have this ceremony, one might consider putting the central state. But the municipalities don't want to get this ceremony. The municipalities have been critical of the ceremony in their response to the hearings, but it is quite another thing to say that we do not want to hold these ceremonies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114402	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114404	Oh. I think that's interesting for KL to hear. They clearly state in their response that it is the KL's view that the tasks relating to the granting of citizenship as a whole should be carried out under the auspices of the State. This also applies to the ceremonies proposed by the draft law. It is simply because they should have spoken out in the hearings, or how could they have said this more clearly? Does this mean that if the municipalities then go ahead with the legal process then make it clear that they actually do not want to, then you will do what the Prime Minister said you would do, namely put it under state control? Is that what the Minister is saying here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114444	Well, I've always thought this should be in the municipalities. There are also municipalities that say that they want to hold these ceremonies and look forward to holding these ceremonies, and that's why the National Association of Municipalities doesn't say on behalf of all 98 municipalities that we don't want to hold these ceremonies. But I can also understand that Mrs Astrid Krag also thinks that they should be in the municipalities, so I do not quite know what the problem is. When I think it is a good idea to put the ceremonies in the municipalities, it is precisely because it is the most democratic link, and I think it is very natural that it is then also there that the meeting, it can be said, with democracy, takes place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114529	Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114534	Why is it important not to wear gloves?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114541	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114549	Now I understand that Mrs Lotte Rod is very concerned about that part of it and not about the symbolism and the importance of taking the Danish values into account. But that's because you have to shake an honest hand without gloves. It is not the case that when I say hello to Mrs Lotte Rod, I fish up a few gloves and put them on and then shake Mrs Lotte Rod's hand. Well, I think it's a weird debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114619	I just wanted to say that it is not the Radical Left who cares. After all, it is the government that has spent time making a bill that not only writes that you have to shake hands, but that it has to be without gloves and that it has to be palm-to-hand. At the same time, the Minister has a party colleague in the Minister for Innovation who spends a lot of time debureaucating a rule. In other words, how does it relate to the fact that we are going to legislate on something that is so specific, that we should shake hands without wearing gloves?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114651	Well, then we'll have to get back to sir. Christian Langballe's investigation and, by the way, Mr. Henrik Dahl's excellent speech and the discussion afterwards. Well, this is a matter of clean and unclean; this is a matter of religion; this is far, far larger than when Mrs Lotte Rod was standing in a toilet, I have to understand, here a few hours ago and washed hands and then a requirement of handwashing. This is about taking in a set of values, Mrs. Lotte Rod. You can try to ridicule it and try to pull it down to a level where it simply doesn't belong at all, but I really don't think you should do that here in the Folketing. It is about choosing Denmark, it is about choosing our set of values, and it is therefore also about choosing a country that is built on a foundation of freedoms, including equality, and we should not shield ourselves from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114753	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114759	I think that shaking hands is a personal act in which you demonstrate your respect for other people. When you legislate on how to show respect for other people, do you really not deprive people of their real opportunity to show personal respect?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114824	No, I don't see that resemblance at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114827	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114830	I guess there's a difference if you're told that this is how it's supposed to be. It's exactly like there's different rituals for how you greet each other in all sorts of other contexts. We do this in different ways, and in this way we also express some of our personality. Do we not really want people to express their personality more than they do certain things because we have legislated on them?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114858	We want that when you choose Denmark and want to call yourself Dane, you also have to choose the foundation itself. This means that you choose a country based on a foundation of freedoms and that you can believe in exactly the god you want and that you can say exactly what you mean and that there is complete equality between the sexes. But you choose the whole thing That's why you also sign that you want to comply with the constitution and take the Danish values into account, and then you fortify it, you can say, by handshaking, and I think that's quite natural.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114937	Thank you, Minister. I'm sorry, there was one more brief remark. It was even from Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102114954	I'd like to make an analogy with shaking hands. A place where it is at least essential that you shake hands is when you get married. Then you stand in the church, and the priest says, "So shake hands with each other." It is an expression of old contract law that you do. So you could say, "Can't you care about each other anyway? ' If one mate says to the other: I don't want to shake your hand, you could make a hypothesis and say that you could then express it in a different way and give a hug. But the rules are just the way to shake hands. After all, in general education, when you come into an assembly and when you leave an assembly, you shake hands. In relation to Danish citizenship, which is not just a minor peripherality, I think that the essence of it is that you are actually invited inside by the Danish people, who open the door and say: you are welcome as equal men and equal women compared to us. And what if you say when you get this citizenship: I'm not gonna shake your hand? It is absurd that we should have that discussion at all, but it is such imaginative ideas of an ideological nature that remain in the head of the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115106	I can only give Mr. Christian Langballe right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115110	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115140	The debate is open and the first to speak is Mrs Astrid Krag from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115149	With the bill here we award Danish citizenship to 1,225 adults and approx. 159 children. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the new citizens. The people who stand on today's bill are citizens who have their lives here in Denmark and have had it for many years. It is with a working life and family life alongside all of us. It is our friends, our neighbours, our colleagues, our family members that we can now congratulate on citizenship. At the same time, we can welcome their desire to be able to call themselves Danish citizens and thus commit themselves fully to our community and our country. Then what is our community? These are the fundamental values and principles of democracy, freedom of expression, equality, the independent rights of children, the rule of law and the primacy of science over faith. These are things that for most of us are so natural that we do not think about it in everyday life and that we shudder when we hear news from other countries where such things are trampled underfoot. With citizenship, the new citizens will have the right to vote in the parliamentary elections. It may soon become relevant, and here I would like to say to you that now it is not only your right to be involved in deciding Denmark. It is also your duty to bring your own experiences to the joint discussions and take part in the debate and take part in our democracy. In the bill here, eight citizens whose citizenships will be conditional upon participation in a constitutional ceremony either under state auspices within the next six months or in Aalborg, Aarhus, Lemvig, Helsingør, Copenhagen, Billund or Køge within the next two years. I hope that you will have a festive and solemn day and warmly support the ceremonies, but as has also emerged from the debate that we have just had on L 180, the so-called handshake law, we think it is wrong that the legislative notes to L 81 make provision for a statutory requirement for handshake. In conclusion, I would like to express my regret that in some cases there has been a very long time in the process. I think we agree on that here in the Chamber. We usually do want to be better and work is also being done to ensure shorter processing times. With that in mind, I can say that the Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115406	There is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115410	In the last 10 years, the Danish Parliament has granted 58,000 citizenships. Is the rapporteur sure that each and every one of these people subscribes to Danish values or what? I have heard this toast every time citizenship has been granted not only by the rapporteur's party but generally. And I think that these are toast speeches that do not really cover up real content. Because I would really like at some point, as rapporteur for the respective parties, to start putting my head on the block and wondering: how many of the people who give citizenship are actually Danish? In the last 10 years, how many of the 58,000 are actually Danish? I can think of some that aren't. And then I ask myself, why should they even have citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115522	It is a well-known fact that the Danish People's Party stands elsewhere than the other parties in the Folketing when we vote on these bills. I am actually a little excited to hear what the Danish People's Party is going to vote for this bill; whether this new statutory handshake requirement has moved the Danish People's Party, so you will now vote in favour. But I would like to say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that I think it is a good thing that we have tightened up the rules and criteria for Danish citizenship. We have done this together in two rounds in the last three years, I guess, and I think that's positive. And there is also the fact that, especially when it comes to derogations, in other words people who have not met all the requirements in full, too many citizenships have been given. And the rapporteur would also like to know that, in the negotiations we had before the summer holidays, we in the Social Democratic Party were very concerned about the possibility of denying citizenship and the possibility of denying citizenship to people who, by faith and laws, have declared their allegiance and loyalty to Denmark and the Constitution and our freedoms. And that is because, like the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, we are concerned that the promise we make should actually be worth something. And if we can then see that some have made those vows without realizing it, then we think it is important that we can start cases of exclusion. This was one of the things that filled us very much in those negotiations, some of what we also included in the text of the agreement, and some of what I look forward to being able to follow whether or not it is going to happen. So with this last agreement we have made together, we will have an opportunity to move closer to some of the issues raised by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115658	We have made it very clear in connection with this agreement that we do not feel obliged to vote in favour of citizenship. We made that very explicit both before, during and after the negotiations. So it's basically very clear. What I just mean is that here in the Danish Parliament we actually have a responsibility for who we assign citizenship. Why do we have that? Yes, we do, for the sake of Denmark and the Danes. We cannot therefore be aware of granting citizenship to people who want Denmark all evil and do not associate anything good with Denmark at all, but want citizenship for other lucrative reasons. That is why my simple question is: how much does the Social Democratic Party feel obliged to grant citizenship to people who are not Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115751	I think that, for the first time, the new agreement has indeed provided us with a tool in relation to the debate that the rapporteur is raising. If there are people who have committed themselves to our community, to our fundamental values, to our rule of law, to our constitution, without thinking so, then, with the latest agreement we have concluded, we have committed ourselves and each other to the possibility of cases of disqualification due to fraud. If you have signed a commitment to this, but do not mean it at all, and if the rapporteur has some very specific examples of it, then I hope that he will pass it on to the minister's ministry, which is responsible for these matters, through the channels we now have. I have also called on others to do so, so that we can try some of these disqualifications. It is not easy to deny people citizenship, but for the first time we opened up a room with the agreement we have reached, and I hope we can have the opportunity to see it verified, because I very much agree with the rapporteur that of course you should mean the things you commit to when you become a Danish citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115848	Thank you to Mrs Astrid Krag, and welcome to Mr. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102115859	In the last 10 years, we and we in the Danish Parliament have, that is so much said, but then a large majority in the Danish Parliament has awarded approx. 58,000 citizenships. When I looked at the figures and tables and saw what was given of citizenship year by year, I thought to myself, wondering how many people are really considering which of the people here are Danish in the heart, who actually subscribes to the Danish values etc. etc. The fact is that over the years, many people have acquired citizenship. There are, among other things: a person named Sam Mansoor, the bookseller from Brønshøj, and he has acquired citizenship. One must assume that he has subscribed to Danish values. Not exactly. He was deprived of his citizenship and expelled to Morocco because he had spoken for terror. That is one of the main examples. But what do we really know about who we grant citizenship? Some we may suspect, with others we have no idea. I know that today, fortunately, the figure has fallen. 1.225 people stand to gain citizenship, and I recognise that this is a positive development. If we go back in time, even just back to the Red Government in particular, a large number of citizenships were distributed. It is not only because the Red Government must be accused of it, because a large majority, except the DF, has voted for these citizenships. But the fact that we are in a positive development is something we accept, and we think it is a good thing, that the number of citizenships is going down. We have had to clean up the morass left by the Helle Thorning-Schmidt government, where it was the Radicals who swung the tactics, and with their view of citizenship we know how things are going. So finally the number is coming down. The number of people outside our cultural circle, from the Muslim world, from Muslim countries, has reached about 20%, where in 2015 it was around 60%. This seems to us to be a very positive development, since the people who come from there have, we can see, had immense difficulty in integrating into Danish society. Unconditionally good! And people from European countries today account for more than 50 per cent. That's good! They are close to our culture and they have an opportunity to integrate, and they have an opportunity to take Denmark in. It's fine! Western countries, if you add them, over 60%. It's very good, and it's good that these people, who, when you look objectively at it, are much more integrated into Danish society than people who are outside the western circle of culture. But we still think that too many citizenships are being distributed. We have said, and have demanded, a maximum ceiling of 1,000 per year, where people must come mainly from European and Western countries. The number matters. There are simply too many citizenships still being granted away where we do not have an opportunity to know whether they will be Danish. We do not subscribe to the idea of the Radicals that citizenship is such an integration tool, where, as it were, we are better integrated because we have citizenship. For us, citizenship is, so to speak, the end and goal of a long journey, where one has slowly and more and more become more Danish and therefore eventually gets the approval or the recognition to become a Danish citizen. However, we still think that the figure is too high, and we indicated this before the negotiations and during the negotiations, and that is also what we say after the negotiations, and that is why we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102120341	Thank you to Christian Langballe, there are no brief remarks. And welcome to Mr. Mads Fuglede from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102120401	Thank you for the floor. It's a big day today. We welcome exactly 1,225 adults and 159 children who can now look forward to becoming Danish citizens. From the left there is a great congratulations. You have worked hard to get here, and you have shown that you can and will take part in the Danish community. It is the finest thing to achieve at all, that is to say Danish citizenship, and I therefore think that there is a good reason to make high demands on those applicants. I am pleased that we are now making even higher demands than in the past on language skills, self-reliance, knowledge of Denmark and now also on equal willingness to comply with Danish standards and values at a citizenship ceremony. That's what I'm talking about. Denmark should only be for those who can and will. Denmark is something you take into your heart, and that is how you show that you are Danish. Once again congratulations to the new citizens. We welcome you and look forward to sharing the joys and rights of citizenship and, not least, duties. I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also welcome our new citizens and that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102120520	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102120523	I would be so boring to repeat myself in relation to what I asked the Social Democrat rapporteur. In other words, 58 000 citizenships have now been given in the last 10 years around, and so I just want to know whether the rapporteur feels convinced that they have taken the Danish into their hearts, as it was so beautifully expressed. Or what? At the end of the day, we know so much about who we are really giving citizenship, because that is incredibly many people. In the first law of birth there were ten persons. It was like an overview. Today, there are so low 1.225, where we actually have to deal with each individual and where we stand at the goal of each individual when we allocate citizenship, because we also have a responsibility for who we allocate citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102120623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102120625	We know that there are some who have acquired Danish citizenship that should never have had it, and I think that 58,000 is a very, very high figure, just diplomatically speaking, between Mr. Langballe and I. That is why I am also pleased that we have tightened the criteria to get Danish citizenship, and I hope that there will be fewer of these doubts. I am also pleased that we are looking into how to take citizenship away from those who do not want our society to work against it and go down that path, because it is also necessary to welcome some people to do so with some expectations of how they act here. When they're broken, you're gonna have to look at rolling that relationship back.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102120722	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102120725	I will not go into the sins of the past, because I cannot really say that to the rapporteur because he has not been so long in the Folketing. But my fundamental question is not that of pointing the finger at someone, but rather simply that of asking the question: does the rapporteur think that each of us is responsible to the Danes for granting citizenship and that, in relation to Denmark, we are taking due care with regard to who we give citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102120810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102120812	I think it is very important that we have as strict criteria as possible, because it is so crucial and so difficult to change. To become a Danish citizen is a great, great gift to receive, and it is very difficult to reverse if you make a wrong decision. And we have seen people who have acquired Danish citizenship who are not loyal to Denmark and our values. I am therefore pleased that we have such strict criteria as we now have and that we have together been able to create stricter criteria for becoming a Danish citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102120846	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded, and welcome to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102120855	Thank you. First of all, we from the Enhedslisten would like to congratulate the people whose names now appear on the bill we are discussing today to the people who become Danish citizens. A lot of them have lived here all their lives or at least for a very, very many years, and a lot of them have really worked hard to get citizenship. There should be no doubt that, on the one hand, the Enhedslisten believes that the rules that apply today, in order to obtain citizenship, are far too strict. We would like more people living in this country and having their lives here to become full members of the community. That is why we are also opposed to the restrictions that the majority in this House has adopted in an agreement just before the summer recess. This will mean that it will be harder to obtain citizenship for many of those who live and live here in our country. For us, it is an important goal that the people who live in Denmark and have their lives here integrate and become part of society and become part of Denmark and thus become full members of the community, as one does when one acquires citizenship. Sometimes some people ask: why is citizenship really important? For many, their residence permit is not the subject of discussion. They've got it all figured out. It's about something else. It's not just about whether you can live here or not. But why is this so important? I can at least point out three reasons for this. One is about the feeling of belonging. Everyone who has shared in celebrating citizenship day in here at Christiansborg, where those who have acquired citizenship in the past year can visit, has experienced that it means a great deal. It is the feeling of being recognised as part of the community that means a great deal to the people who have been born, and I can understand that, because it is clear that you want to belong to the community in the country in which you live. The second reason why citizenship is important is that it allows us to vote in parliamentary elections and participate fully in our Danish democracy, which I would say is one of the most important values we have. The third reason, of course, is that it allows for travel. We often hear about young people who may be prevented from going on a study trip with their school class or their high school class or who cannot go on an exchange because they do not have a Danish passport, and thus there are a number of countries for which they cannot obtain a visa. They are thus excluded from the community of their education, which I would say is essential if we are to achieve successful integration. In conclusion, I would just like to reiterate today's most important message: a great congratulations to the people who are now getting citizenship. I wish that more people could follow those I would like to see, especially children born in Denmark, able to obtain citizenship much more easily. Nevertheless, congratulations to those who are now becoming full members of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121218	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121221	Well, it was again such a little talk and a nice toast about that there are people who have worked hard to get a Danish citizenship. They've worked hard, they've worked hard, but how many have it? Does the rapporteur know? I just think there's gonna be something about all the people working hard to get a Danish citizenship. I can think of someone who hasn't worked so hard. I can think of some who have been granted a derogation and have therefore acquired citizenship without complying with the rules that are too common. I can think of many people over the years who have not worked hard to obtain citizenship and who have actually been granted it on a different basis and thus much easier than it is today. But what I would like to hear is: How much, according to Enhedslisten, do you have to work hard to obtain Danish citizenship? What does it take to become a national of Denmark? What kind of demands are you making? You want it for free or what? That's what it sounds like.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121312	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121314	Now it's so lucky, sir. Christian Langballe, that after the debate we had just before, I just sent you our constitutional proposal, which describes quite clearly what kind of rules we think there should be. But of course not everyone is watching or sitting in this Chamber who has read it; I do not expect that. Some of the things that we, among other things... suggesting that one should of course be able to be Danish at the level which today is on Danish test 3. So I think that is also a requirement to make. And Mr. Christian Langballe himself, you might say, has made sure, to my great regret, that one really has to work hard to obtain Danish citizenship today. So I simply do not agree with the idea that nobody is working hard for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121352	I have not indicated that there is no one I am just saying that not everyone has worked so hard for it. It's really that simple. What is it that is needed to obtain Danish citizenship? Now there has been mention of Danish Examination 3 and this is the first time I have had a real answer from someone from the Enhedslisten. Is there anything else that needs to be done? Do you have to commit crime? How much crime must you commit and so on? I am simply asking because I do not know.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121437	Another proposal that we also have, for example, is that if you are a child and are born in Denmark, it must be easier to obtain citizenship, that is, if that is what parents want. I think it is perfectly reasonable that you should obtain citizenship both if you were born here and have lived here all your life, but also if you have lived most of what you call the child's formal year in Denmark. I think that is actually very natural, and I am surprised that the Danish People's Party does not think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121507	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more brief comments. And welcome to Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121513	Thank you for that, President. Liberal Alliance backs Bill L 81. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121537	There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121539	Thank you. Then you have to hurry on top of such a brief rapporteur's speech! From the point of view of the alternative, in line with some of the other rapporteurs who have been up here in connection with this bill, we wish the people concerned, the 1,225 adults and those, I think, 159 children, very warmly welcome as Danish citizens. It is, as the Minister said earlier, a huge thing to get Danish citizenship. We must, of course, safeguard this and I hope that the people concerned will experience a Denmark with open arms. I hope that the people concerned will enter the Danish democracy and join the community, but I hope as much that the community will open its arms and welcome those people. I would also like to say from the alternative to all the new Danes that it is not so important for us what clothes you wear or whatever food you eat or what habits and traditions you practice in your life. It is more important that you participate in society, participate in the community in the Danish institutions, the primary school etc., and that the Danish institutions open their arms to the new Danes who are coming. So welcome to you. Of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121655	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121658	It's not quite true that you don't in the Enhedslisten, sorry, in the Alternative, it's almost the same thing that cares about what people eat. You want to regulate how much meat you eat, for example, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121718	We would like to put a climate tax on beef, because beef is the most burdensome meat production we have in our country, and we have what is probably the world's biggest challenge, not just in Denmark, but across the globe: a galloping climate crisis, which we have a political responsibility to address if our descendants are to have the same opportunities as us to have sustainable lives and, at the very least, the opportunities we have had. So yes, we would like to put a climate tax on beef, so that we can regulate our consumption of beef in this way. But we have no problem with the Danes eating meat.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121756	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121758	No, but you care how much meat is eaten and how little meat can be eaten etc. etc. It's just to say that of course we each have opinions about this society, and when the Danish People's Party believes that burka and niqab do not belong in Danish society, it is because we have certain opinions about what it means to be Danish. And when we think that people should shake hands and if they deny it by religious clean ideas, they should not have any citizenship, it is because we have a political attitude towards Denmark. That's the way it is. So has the alternative, and that was kind of just my point.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121837	Well, that's quite correct. Of course we have a political attitude towards Denmark. Our position is that we want to introduce structural methods and tools to limit our beef production. It's just not religious or ideologically founded. It is based on a political challenge that we all face: a climate crisis that I hope the Danish People's Party, in the same way as we in the alternative, are concerned about. So we're actually trying to address the biggest political challenge that exists right outside these windows right now. But it has nothing to do with values or religion or culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121914	Thank you, Mrs Magdalene Maier, and welcome to Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102121923	Thank you for that, President. I would like to say from myself and from the rest of the radical parliamentary group: Congratulations to all of you who now acquire Danish citizenship. I am very happy for you that you have now come so far and are real Danes, also on paper. But I am also sorry for those who should have been granted citizenship but who have not been included in this bill. In the Radical Left, we feel that it is wrong that we should go through a test of the issues we now have to deal with. We think that the language requirement is wrong in that it favours people with long education over people who have shorter education or no education. And in general, I think that the way in which we deal with matters in committee is wrong. The way in which we deal with the derogations is based on coincidence, that is to say, what the individual members of the committee might think; whether they say yes or no to the individual. There is no transparency about that. There is no legal certainty. And that is why we are working in the Radical Left to change it so that we have a system that will be much fairer and equal. We don't have so many chances to talk about that in the Folketing. That is why I should like to say now that integration is actually progressing. We just got new figures on how many people are going to work. That is why I would just like to say: how nice it is that the work that is going on in the municipalities bears fruit around. At the same time, however, we have also just come to the conclusion in research from Aarhus University that there are many descendants who feel that they have been rejected here, so that even if they do everything we ask them to train, they do not feel closed into society anyway. I would therefore just like to say in all silence that no matter what one thinks politically, I would hope that from here we will help not to give people the feeling, the feeling of not being let in, but that we will, on the contrary, make an effort to allow the people who make an effort to be Danish and to be part of Denmark to feel as part of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102122203	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102122208	I understand that being able to speak Danish is such an academic speciality, which in the Radical Left seems to be nonsense, so that we can allow ourselves to make the language requirements we make, because it is such an academic thing. So, I have to say that I sometimes think to myself: what is really going on on the radical planet, somewhere far out in the galaxies, very, very far away from reality? What's going on? So, the prerequisite for becoming a part of a society, to become a part of Denmark, is surely that one can speak. Is that also an unreasonable requirement? Who, then, should not have citizenship in Denmark? In other words, it could be that the 70 million refugees who are worldwide should have citizenship in a radically good way, without the Radicals thinking about it being forgotten, so to speak, because that is what the Radicals are always easy to avoid if there is a concern for the Danes and Denmark, a consideration of what the country looks like tomorrow, in 10 years' time, in 20 years' time, in 30 years' time. Well, that's the kind of thing you always avoid. But what are the requirements when one is obviously not able to speak Danish or what? What's going on up there on the radical planet?
ParlaMint-DK_20181102122340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102122342	Thank you for the confidence that the Radical Left has invented the way we create Danish levels. Well, the Radical Left has certainly done a lot since we were founded over 100 years ago, but this is exactly what I don't think we can take credit for at least not alone. If there is something academic, then it is, of course, that the Danish People's Party goes in and says that what needs to be a requirement is what is equivalent to having a longer higher education. Thus the Danish People's Party helps to say: we think it is better that you have a long higher education than that you have a short or perhaps no education at all. And in the Radical Left we have the principle that those who make an effort to become Danish must also have an opportunity to do so and that it should not depend on their level of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102122437	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102122439	Now I have to say that what the radical rapporteur is saying on the platform with regard to language requirements is simply wrong. It's wrong. It is like the 9th-class level for the first foreign language, and it is not an academic level. That's what anyone who went to school has to go through. Well, what is this? What is the higher academic level underlying Danish 3? So the rapporteur has been a member of the committee and we have been beating around in this. The rapporteur has, moreover, and it fits perfectly well with the Radical Left, granted an exception to everything. We have never heard a 'no' from the Radical Left. Then I just think that the Radical Left rapporteur should understand what the rules are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102122533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102122534	Actually, this surprises me a little, 'cause normally, sir... Christian Langballe really was a long way down in the technique of what the different things here mean. So perhaps we should just ask a committee question just to refresh ourselves what the individual Danish levels correspond to, because then we can clarify it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102122556	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102122602	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I would just like to congratulate the 1.225 new Danes and welcome them. It has not been easy for a total of 1,225 Danes to get here, because the road to Danish citizenship is long and complicated. In addition to the difficult test of citizenship that applicants have to pass to be taken into account, there is also a long application process in various authorities. It is a long and tough process that really requires some of the applicants. Therefore, the new Danes have so much deserved to be able to call themselves citizens now. I wish you every success in the future and hope that with your citizenship you will actively participate in Danish society and appreciate our lovely country as much as we do. Congratulations to all of you. SF will, of course, vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102122706	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration does not want a line, I have been told. As no one else wishes to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102122735	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102122803	Thank you. Every year more than 3,000 Danes die prematurely as a consequence of air pollution. In addition, the sulphurous exhaust gases of ships also burden our environment. According to the Ministry's own calculations, approx. 20% In fact, air pollution, which has health effects inside our cities, is attributed to exhaust gases coming from ships. That is why there are many good reasons for combating air pollution from ships, and the Social Democrats therefore support the government's proposals. First of all, we believe that a transparency system will help to make it clearer which shipping companies are willing to follow the rules and look after our environment and which shipping companies are not, and then consumers can take their decisions as a result. The Danish waters are part of the so-called SECA area, where there are particularly low limits for sulphur discharges. The ships may emit and use fuel at a maximum of 0.1%. sulphur content. The scheme has been a success story and created clear environmental improvements. However, in connection with the proposal before us today, I am surprised that the government will only allow the public system to apply to serious infringements of at least 0.5%. Well, you have to break the rules with a factor 5 before you get published on the Ministry's website. I think we should have a discussion about whether the law should not also apply to shipping companies which make a minor violation of the rules, i.e. a minor infringement than a five-time infringement. Another element that I believe we should have bored out in the legislative process has been the result of the CO industry's consultation response. The CO industry writes that the fines are too small in relation to the profits that certain shipping companies can have by sailing with cheaper and more sulphurous fuel. In this connection, I would ask the Minister to explain how the fines for extracting sulphurous exhaust gases relate to the economic gain that shipping companies have by using fuel with more sulphur than allowed in Danish waters. In the social democracy we always work to make Denmark greener and to ensure better air quality, which is why we can also support the proposal. And I would like to greet the Radical Left and say that they feel covered in my remarks. The Radical Left also supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102123034	You're welcome, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, and welcome to Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102123041	Thank you for that, President. This bill is about changes in the protection of the marine environment. The International Maritime Organisation has set a particularly low limit value for the sulphur content of marine fuel in marine waters where there is intensive maritime traffic close to shore and where there is a high population density. The entire territorial waters of Denmark are subject to IMO and EU rules in this area. Fortunately, most of the ships comply with the rules, and according to the National Centre for the Environment and Energy, the sulphur content in the air over Denmark has more than halved since the stricter sulphur rules came into force on 1 January 2015. So it really matters. Unfortunately, however, there are a few percent who violate the rules and yet use marine fuel with too high sulphur content. They probably do so in order to save fuel costs, which is not fair to those who actually comply with the rules. With this amendment it will be possible to publish serious infringements and then focus on the shipping companies with the greatest environmental impact. Then responsible and environmentally conscious companies and consumers can opt out of those shipping companies that pollute more than competitors. The Danish EPA, with the help of the Danish Maritime Authority, is responsible for supervising the rules of the sulphur regulation. And since the Danish EPA and the Danish Maritime Authority are already taking oil samples and analysing the sulphur content of the fuel, no further financial consequences are expected for the state. So with this bill, which has also been received positively by those entitled to a hearing, the Minister for the Environment and Food is authorised to publish the names of the shipping companies that violate the rules... we can call them the stumbled vessels in this industry. Of course, the Danish People's Party supports this and we look forward to the further examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102123246	Thank you to Mrs Lise Bech and warmly welcome to Mr Lise Bech. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102123257	Thank you. Denmark is a traffic hub for shipping to and from the Baltic Sea. Every year thousands of ships pass through the Sound and Storebælt. With such traffic it is particularly important to make requirements that protect our environment and our health. The vast majority of ships comply with the set sulphur limit value, but we still see some who are trying to get away with using fuel with too high a sulphur content because, as it were, they are trying to get rid of it cheaper. With this proposal for a directive, which we are debating today, we are taking action against totally unacceptable infringements which harm the environment and health, and which then distort competition in the end. The draft law will make it possible to publish the names of shipping companies which significantly exceed the limit value, and in this way companies and consumers will be able to opt out of these shipping companies in favour of their less polluting competitors. In Denmark, we have advanced technology that measures the emissions of ships, and we have already made a great deal of progress in reducing sulphur in the air. The problem has not been resolved yet, and we must, of course, continue along this path. This is what we are doing with this bill, because with the prospect of both the penalty and the publication of the name, fewer people will see it as attractive to use the cheaper fuel with a high and too high sulphur content, and on that basis, of course, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102123426	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen, and welcome to Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102123441	Air pollution from shipping is a major problem in Denmark. We are a country where there is a great deal of transit of container ships through our waters, and this can be clearly seen in air pollution. Approx. 20% the health effects attributable to air pollution in Denmark are actually due to shipping. It is therefore vital that action is taken in this area. Reasonable steps have already been taken in the IMO and at EU level, and specific rules have been adopted for the Baltic Sea, the North Sea and inland Danish waters, but we are far from achieving this when shipping is still 20 per cent away. of the health effects of the air pollution that we have in Denmark. So Enhedslisten would like to thank the Minister for bringing forward the bill here. This makes it possible to publish the names of shipping companies which break the rules of the sulphur regulation in relation to the amount of sulphur they may emit. We welcome the fact that there is openness about which shipping companies are not complying with the rules and welcome the fact that companies are given the opportunity to opt out of shipping companies which deliberately pollute the environment and override health considerations for greater profits. As the consultation response from the CO industry suggests, there is a significant problem that is not addressed in the legislative proposal, namely the size of the fine proposal. As Danish Rederier has calculated, a medium-sized container ship can save about 1 million. kr. on a trip through northern European waters if the cheapest marine fuels with an excessive sulphur content are used. The huge savings that shipping companies can make by using cheap marine fuels with a high sulphur content are therefore not at all in line with the penalty imposed on them, for example. $200,000. in the case of serious infringements. Fines of this magnitude can be recognised by the shipping company as part of their profit and loss account, and cheating on the fuel can continue to be a good business even if you should be discovered. The penalty must go up to a level where cheating is not worthwhile. Furthermore, we also believe that it is wrong that the Minister will only publish the serious infringements. If that is the case, the shipping company can calculate its infringement just below the threshold of publication of the infringement, and we think this is very inappropriate in terms of getting shipping on a more environmentally friendly course. A large scale of minor infringements can also be a major burden on the environment and health. So one could modulate the publication so that the bad violations that the bill contains were published, but one could also publish the less bad ones and characterize it on the website. I would also like to take this opportunity to stress that it is not only sulphur pollution from shipping that poses a major environmental problem. There is also CO 2 On the part of the Enhedslisten, we would certainly like the Minister and his colleagues in the Council to work to ensure that far stricter requirements are imposed on shipping in general in order to have much less environmentally, climate and health-intensive shipping than we have today, and that we will therefore see action by the government in this area in the near future. For there is much more to it than a list of sulphur sinners on the Danish EPA's website, so that we really get shipping onto a sustainable track. Of course, less sulphurous fuel, tighter emission requirements and bashing of sulphur sinners on the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's website are a step on the way, but if we are to have shipping on a truly sustainable track, it should not be based in the future on fossil and environmentally harmful fuels, but instead be based on renewable energy. Although it is a step in the future, we already see experiments with wind-powered container ships, and this development on the Danish side we have a huge responsibility to support through demands and regulation, so that the conversion process is really initiated. So Enhedslisten can support the bill, but we also believe that it is crucial that the Minister also works in the second framework to ensure that we raise the fines to a level so that it does not pay to pollute and operate shipping which is harmful to health and that, in relation to the bill, the Minister is strongly considering having all breaches of the sulphur regulation published.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102123916	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Øjvind Vilsholm, and welcome to Mr. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102123924	Thank you for that, President, and also from the Liberal Alliance, thank you to the Minister for bringing forward the bill. After all, the draft law will help to ensure that more shipping companies comply with the rules on sulphur content in fuels. Fortunately, however, the vast majority of shipping companies are already complying with the rules, but there are some, and I believe that it is mainly foreign shipping companies which still have little difficulty in complying with the requirements that we in Denmark impose on them. Of course, we should not accept this, which is why both I and the Liberal Alliance think it is good that this problem is now being highlighted. This is being done by simply naming the shipping companies that are unable to comply with the rules, which is why the Liberal Alliance also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102124018	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach, welcome to Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102124025	Yeah, and I'll be brief, too. Thank you to the Minister for making this proposal. The air pollution from ships is significant, and although some have been done over the past many years, it is still this 20%. of the harmful air pollution from this sector. So there is a need to do more, and this proposal does some of it, so we look at it very positively. We also agree that it might be interesting to delve into whether we can tighten the limits and perhaps even, as the Enhedslisten rapporteur has suggested, make a modulation or at least look at the limit value contained in the proposal. We're also preoccupied with this whole fine-size thing. In general terms, there must be proportionality, which means that you cannot speculate about breaking the law. So we would like to look at that too, but it is, of course, under the auspices of another legislative proposal that will then have to be drawn up here. But it is certainly a very good step on the way, and let us see in the work of the committee how far we can go with the limit values.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102124140	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. And welcome to Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102124146	We are basically in the SF of the view that rules exist to be complied with, and therefore we naturally preferred no ships or shipping companies to have a conscience to speculate on sulphur content levels and to break the common ground rules that we have on the level of sulphur content in marine fuel. Unfortunately, however, there are examples of violations occurring, and unfortunately this is not without consequences for people and the environment. As described in the bill, emissions resulting from the combustion of marine fuels with a high sulphur content are strongly contributing to the pollution of the air by sulphur dioxide and particulate matter, which are fundamentally harmful to human health and the environment. We cannot, of course, accept that and therefore it is essential that polluters be held to account where everyone can see it and that pollution should not be free of charge. It must be that simple. That is why we in the SF are also in favour of the government's proposal to make a publication scheme for the indictments received by shipping companies on the basis of infringement of the rules of the sulphur regulation. On the one hand, it will mean much more openness in relation to which shipping companies cheat on the balance bowl and thereby pollute our common environment and emit particles that are harmful to human health. On the one hand, it can hopefully also create an incentive for those shipping companies which speculate on the level of sulphur content to refrain from doing so. Finally, in the SF, we would like to see a little more ambitious. You could easily go further and publish fines of less than 200,000 kroner. Indeed, we recognise the aim of the proposal to focus on the most serious overruns, but may also be concerned about whether shipping companies will then speculate to lie just below the threshold for their infringement to be made public. We would like to discuss this further in committee. But with those comments, we are positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102124357	Thank you very much to Mrs Trine Torp and warmly welcome Mr Torp. Erik Lund of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102124404	Thank you. Fortunately, as has been said several times, the vast majority of ship operators are complying with the limit values laid down in the sulphur regulation, but I will use the same words that Mrs Lise Bech used: there are stingy vessels that still use illegal and cheap fuel. It can be up to half as expensive as the fuel that has a low sulphur content, and we must, of course, do something about that. This helps to create unequal competition, it is very damaging to the environment and it is very damaging to health. That is why the Conservatives are also looking forward to having legislation that not only fines those ship operators who deliberately cheat but also allows us to publish the names of the offenders. We are also quite satisfied that, now that we have this opportunity to publish the names of the deliberate offenders, we have a limit of DKK 200,000. We think 200,000 kroner. sounds quite reasonable. In this way the publication will only include the right scammers, one can say, while those who are going to fail due to human error and there may be leaks or any other leaks but who otherwise want to comply with the rules do not get it published. As several rapporteurs have said about the limit of DKK 200,000, I should not be smart about whether it is right or whether it should be DKK 150,000, but as the starting point is here, we actually think it is quite reasonable with the DKK 200,000. The Conservative People's Party fully supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102124537	Thanks to Erik Lund and warmly welcome to the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102124543	Thank you very much for that, President. First of all, of course, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their speeches and for your support for this. It's always nice when there's something we agree to do better, especially when it's in my area. So I'm glad. In Denmark thousands of ships pass through Øresund and through Storebælt. It is a dense traffic of many ships, and some of them call at Danish ports. Some of them just pass through on their way to and from the Baltic Sea. And in order to reduce air pollution from these many ships, since 2015, it has been a requirement that ships throughout the North Sea and the Baltic Sea, including Danish waters, use fuel with a sulphur content of up to 0.1%. Generally speaking, most ships comply with the rules, but there are still cases where ships have been found to have used fuel with too high a sulphur content. And why do they do that? They do, of course, because they can save a great deal of money by using it significantly cheaper and illegal fuel. In addition to being a significantly higher environmental impact, they also achieve a major competitive advantage by saving fuel costs. Therefore, the government has a major focus on the enforcement and control of ships' use of marine fuel in Danish waters. Since 2015, we have thus carried out monitoring and monitoring of the sulphur content of ships, on the one hand with the so-called sniffer on the Storebælt Bridge and, on the other hand, with a mobile monitoring by helicopters, and, finally, also through additional oil samples of the sulphur content of the ships' fuel when they call at Danish ports. With the government's climate and air play, we have put in place that control can continue for the next four years for the time being. The legislative proposal we are discussing here and now further strengthens the monitoring effort by allowing serious infringements to be made public in the future. The publication will take place on the basis of a laboratory analysis of the sulphur content of the ship's fuel and after the prosecution has assessed that in the particular case a fine should be issued or a case brought where the fine level is DKK 200,000. or above. With an opportunity to publish serious infringements, the focus is on those shipping companies that are trying to save money at the expense of all of us, at the expense of our environment. On the basis of publication, it will be possible for the individual consumer and for the individual producer and for the individual to have something transported, to opt out of those shipping companies which use it more pollutingly and therefore, for obvious reasons, illegal fuel. The publication will provide an additional incentive for compliance with the rules. This will benefit all of us, it will benefit our environment and our health, but also equal competition between shipping companies. I hope for broad support. That is what it sounds like here today, and I look forward to the further examination of the proposal, including the discussions on fines and discussions on when we are actually going to publish these shipping companies. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102124907	You're welcome, sir. Minister. There are no brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food, and if any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102124928	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102124946	Thank you. I can see that speaking time in the Folketing is five minutes. I think this proposal can be dealt with more quickly. Perhaps we can reach all the speakers within the five minutes actually allocated to me. The aim of the bill is to repeal 13 older support and grant laws that are no longer used, and it supports social democracy. I note that some people in the consultative material have noticed that some of the grant laws are still in use, and the critical consultation responses have then been met, so I am quite confident that this is a sensible law that we are probably adopting here in broad agreement. I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they also support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125030	That's about it. 47 seconds. Thank you, sir. Rabjerg Madsen, and welcome to Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125038	Thank you, President. Then we'll see if I can do it faster. It's hard to say a lot about this bill. It aims to repeal 13 older aid and grant laws which are virtually no longer in use. It is therefore positive when the aim is to simplify legislative structures in order to make it easier and more transparent for citizens and businesses. Of course, the Danish People's Party supports this. But I am glad that the Danish Data Protection Agency and Payout Denmark have read the bill, so the proposal has been adapted in a few places. But otherwise, as I said, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125113	It was faster. Thank you to Mrs Lise Bech. I have to tell you that the rapporteurs do not have to hurry in the interests of the President. We're available here all afternoon. Welcome to sir. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125126	Thank you. This is quite a sensible proposal. We often talk about debureaucratisation and simplification. Now we're gonna do something about it. So I can be very brief and say that, of course, we fully support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125139	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. Welcome to sir. Øjvind Vilsholm from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125152	I can promise that I will dwell considerably longer than the other rapporteurs here on the proposal, although I will probably not tire you all afternoon either. It goes without saying that laws such as the Act on the replacement of basic burdens of 1918, which deal with rules relating to the abolition of the binding and the subsequent abolition of the holocaust, no longer have their justification in a legislative catalogue anno 2018, and there is also, for example, a good sense in sometimes having laws annulled or phased out, the content of which has been exhausted. The bill here is about 13 laws or regulations proposed by the bill repealed, and most of the laws are more contemporary than the law of 1918. This concerns, among other things: on laws implementing old EU directives that have now been repealed or, for example, Laws which cover only an appropriation for the financial years 1986-88 and which should clearly have been taken out of the legislative catalogue long ago. However, the legislative catalogue also deals with proposals for repealing laws such as: continue to engage in grant and lending activities, and we note that, in cases where there is still activity, measures appear to have been taken to ensure that debts continue to be recovered where necessary, and that it will continue to be possible to claim reimbursement of grants granted, where appropriate. Both are to protect the Treasury from losses, which is positive. Finally, Enhedslisten is aware that the draft law's observations clearly show that there will be no negative environmental impact on the draft law. This is, of course, crucial for Enhedslisten to be able to support the bill. We take the wording of the comments that there will be no negative environmental impact on the proposal, at face value, because it has simply not been possible for us to verify it. After all, there are amazingly few consultation responses to this proposal, and this gives me the opportunity to point out that it is not particularly appropriate to bring so many different legislative changes into one legislative proposal. It would have been useful to have divided the bill into 3-4 legislative proposals, which brought together the areas covered by these legislative proposals, and we could have dealt with these legislative proposals together. For a division would, of course, make the whole thing a little clearer for the public. Anyway, Enhedslisten can support the proposal in this form.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125422	Thank you, sir. Øjvind Vilsholm. Welcome to sir. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125428	Thank you. That then means another long speech by the rapporteur, because the Liberal Alliance is, after all, a party, perhaps even the party that fights red tape hardest, bureaucracy in every form. We want a much more efficient public sector which is transparent for the ordinary citizen and for Danish companies. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary, inter alia, to: We are also being cleared up in the jungle of laws and regulations in the various ministerial areas, and there really is something to be addressed, especially in the area of the Minister for the Environment and Food. A recent analysis by CEPOS, a liberal think tank, shows that the area of the Ministry of the Environment and Food has accounted for 17 per cent. of the growth in the regulatory volume since 1989. I personally hope that in future we will see a drop in the complexity of the law, and at least the government is doing what it can for it. In August it was agreed to simplify the employment effort, and now we are clearing up the many laws and regulations in the area of the Ministry of the Environment and Food. There are, for example: I believe that we need to be liberal in order to be able to see the wisdom of cleaning it up. The Liberal Alliance therefore, of course, also supports the legislation and hopes for much more of this kind in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125610	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach and welcome to Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125616	Thank you. When you clean up legislation, it is insanely important to keep in mind that you do not relax it, that you do not remove legislation that aims to protect the environment, people, etc. Here, of course, we have the word of the draft law for a number of rules, aid schemes and so on to be cleared up without any relaxation. That is why we can support the proposal. We think it's okay to clean up the mess. There are a lot of rules with a lot of exceptions, and there are a lot of arrangements, and the simpler you can do that, the easier it is to understand for citizens and companies and also for us politicians. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125706	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll and welcome to Mrs Trine Torp from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125710	Thank you. We must not have laws that are not being used and that are no longer current. So briefly: SF supports the clean-up of legislation, of course, so that it will be easier for citizens and businesses to orient themselves in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125729	That was 15 seconds. Welcome to sir. Erik Lund of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125737	Thank you, sir. President. Now the President has said that we should spend five minutes on this. I can see that it's gone now. No, I guess there isn't. I have both a long and a short speech, and the long speech would actually go down in all the proposals. I'll stick to the short. I think it is quite reasonable that we are now repealing 13 primarily aid and grant laws, which are no longer in use or are considered to be in phase out. That is quite, quite reasonable. This could be done in many other areas. It is quite sensible to clean up old laws that are no longer in use. This can make it easier for citizens to be informed of the laws that are then left. Of course, we must not avoid making laws. We can see that the next legislative proposal we come up with is also quite sensible. But the removal of 13 older laws seems to me to be quite reasonable. So the Conservatives fully support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125830	Thank you very much, sir. Erik Lund and welcome to the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102125835	Thank you. Fortunately, I have 15 minutes to talk! Thank you very much to all the rapporteurs for your brief remarks. The government will of course make it both cheaper and easier to operate and be independent in Denmark. A number of measures have been taken to meet this objective. There are, for example: introduced two fixed annual entry into force dates for business-oriented rules. It facilitates companies' work in keeping informed about new business-oriented regulations. In addition, a dispute has been opened against unnecessarily tight conditions for Danish companies when common European rules are introduced into Danish law. The government is now systematically dealing with each case when implementing EU business-oriented rules. In the field of the environment and food, too, we are working with determination to achieve the government's objectives. The first step in this work was initiated by my predecessor, who is now Minister for Fisheries and Gender Equality and Minister for Nordic Cooperation, and this was a clean-up in the many announcements in this area. The cleanup was carried out in 2016 and removed every third notice. This makes it easier to understand the rules, without relaxing the protection of the environment and without relaxing food safety. The second step in the work is a clean-up in the Ministry's laws... the so-called legal compass. The purpose of the legislative compass is to create a simpler, clearer and coherent legal structure in the field of environment and food. In December 2017, an expert panel presented its proposal for a new legal structure in which the number of laws is more than halved, namely from 95 to 43. It will not only excuse the term 'historical simplification', but will also significantly strengthen legal certainty without reducing the level of protection. If the statutory compass is implemented, citizens and businesses and authorities will be able to do much more to get to grips with one law when it comes to finding out what is going on and what is not. At the same time, the law compass makes it easier to understand the division of labour between the laws, so that the right law and the responsible authority can be found more quickly. In short, the laws will be easier to understand for citizens and easier to administer for the authorities. That's a good idea. This bill sets in motion one of the elements of the implementation of the legislative compass, and the bill proposes the repeal of 13 completely or partially obsolete laws in the fields of the Ministry of the Environment and Food and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These are mainly older aid laws which are no longer relevant, as they can no longer be applied for under the relevant laws. With the repeal, we significantly reduce the number of laws and avoid misunderstandings about the content of legislation among citizens and businesses. With the repeal of 13 laws, this is the largest repeal law in recent times, so we can clap ourselves on our shoulders today. At the same time, the draft law puts a final end to the joint and co-decision procedure, as was also pointed out earlier. In particular, concerning the repeal of the law on the replacement of basic burdens, I must point out, for the sake of good order, that the Ministry of the Environment and Food, following the submission of the bill, has been informed that there may be legal proceedings underway in the field of the law. However, a trial will not have any impact on the proposed repeal of the law, nor will the repeal of the law have any influence on the trial, as the termination does not take place retroactively. I will make a contribution to the report which will clarify the importance of the abolition of the law on the replacement of basic burdens. With these words, I look forward to the debate in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130229	We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130249	The debate is open. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130302	Thank you. Where Bill No. L 54 was a small bill, so I think L 82 is the smallest bill I've ever dealt with. Social democracy thinks it is sensible to use digital communication in reporting on rats, and I also think it makes sense that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency uses digital communication when allowing it to fight rats. I have to inform you that Radicals also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130322	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Due, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130337	Thank you, President. It is good to have a legislative proposal where there are no implementation consequences for the state, the municipalities and the regions, there is no economic impact on business, there is no administrative impact on business, there are no administrative consequences for citizens, there are no environmental consequences, and imagine that there are no EU legal aspects to take into account either. After all, it is fantastic that legislative proposals can still be put forward, where the European Union should not interfere. So there is nothing else to do but to support it fully.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130416	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130425	Thank you. Rat plagues are quite unpleasant, and of course they just need to be combated most effectively. This is also about getting administrative work digitised and done as easily and flexibly as possible. That is quite reasonable and, of course, the Left fully supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130442	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130451	The Enhedslisten considers that the draft law is, as a starting point, a sensible approach which will make it possible to improve the effectiveness of the procedures for the control of rats and for the authorisation of the control of rats. The Enhedslisten notes that the Ministry of the Environment and Food acknowledges in the consultation note to the KL that a good process is needed for the development of the reporting solution, which also means that the time is given for the development and testing of the solution and that it aims to establish a transitional solution following dialogue with the municipalities. That the time required is set aside is central to Enhedslisten, but we also believe that there might be a need for clarification of what is meant by the time required, in cooperation with KL. The Enhedslisten also agrees with KL that it is to be expected that there is funding from the state to implement the proposal. From the KL's hearing, it appears that the state has allocated DKK 90,000. for implementation, and we would like an answer as to whether it is full and adequate for the costs expected in connection with implementation in the municipalities. The Enhedslisten is very concerned that the need for increased rat control does not have unintended adverse effects on the environment and nature in terms of increased resistance and spread of toxic residues in the food chain and to nature and the environment. However, Enhedslisten notes that the bill does not affect the requirements of the actual implementation of the rat control with poison, and that the professional requirements for authorisation are not altered by this bill, and we also note that the bill relates exclusively to the use of digital communication in the field of rat control. So we take the Ministry's conclusion in the comments that the bill will not adversely affect the environment, at face value, and that is why, with these reservations, we can agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130656	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130704	Thank you for the floor. After all, this is not a very controversial legislative proposal, one can say that we are dealing with here as the last item on the agenda. And since I know that the Minister has important appointments on the calendar thereafter, I do not want to say too much either. That's the effectiveness of the rat control. And it must be possible to do this by skipping a file and letting rat fighters report directly in the municipal databases. That is, of course, sensible, and it is another example of the government working for a more efficient public sector. That is why the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130740	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130747	I'll be very brief. This is about making things more flexible, and since we have a clear feeling that there is no relaxation here, we support that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130800	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130809	Sometimes in this place one wonders why the Minister sometimes has great authority to set something in announcements, and at other times one may then wonder and think it is a little strange that one should deal with such a bill where the minister could actually have done so himself. But okay, we support it because it sounds like a sensible thing to streamline through digitalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130831	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130840	Thank you. Of course, the Conservatives also support this bill. It is quite reasonable that there should be no duplication of effort. Today, it happens that the municipalities receive a report, and then they have to enter the information themselves in a database. That's ridiculous. This proposal gives the fighter himself the opportunity to report to the database. I am not as concerned as Enhedslisten's rapporteur about whether there is the time needed for implementation. Now it is not an EFI system, nor is it another tax system. In relation to the time needed, I would say that we can probably manage this weekend to solve this, that you can report to a database yourself. So Conservatives fully support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130920	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102130925	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much to the rapporteurs for their speeches, and thank you for your support for the proposal. This is an exemplary quick afternoon in the Danish people's government. I would just like to point out that this is also a way of dealing with legislative proposals from the Ministry of the Environment and Food. I simply do not believe that anyone will have a worse day. Well, joke aside. It is possible that rats are porking and faggots and jumping and dancing, but they are serious pests that damage infrastructure and buildings every year for millions of kroner. They are also carriers of a wide range of diseases which can be spread to humans and which can be spread to animals. Therefore, effective and sustained action is needed to prevent and control rats. In November 2017, the Government and the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left adopted an action plan for the prevention and control of rats. The reason was that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency had unfortunately found that the efforts so far had not been able to break the increasing trend in the number of reported rats. The action plan contains 17 initiatives. As a result of the action plan, there were, inter alia: introduced rules on extended access to private rat control, e.g. there is now the possibility of obtaining authorisation to fight on its own commercial property. Against this background, it is expected that a greater proportion of municipal combat will be carried out by private individuals in the future. In order to ensure that the municipality can still be effectively supervised, there has also been a strengthening of private combatants' reporting obligations. When rats have been found, the batter must record and report a number of information. As it is now, there is no formal requirement for the reporting to be done and when the reporting is received by the municipality, the municipality's employees enter the information into the rat database, which is part of the common public environmental portal. The legal basis that we are now inserting into the Environmental Protection Act ensures that rules can be laid down to ensure that the reports are entered directly into the rat database without the consent of the municipality. In this way, you skip a case, the reporting system is made more efficient, and the municipality can retrieve relevant data from the rat database With this proposal, we will take a step further in our efforts to combat rats and combat them effectively. This is an important task. Christmas is at the door, and you must be allowed to have your Christmas porridge in peace, so digitization must bring the rats. I look forward to the committee's examination of the excellent proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102131206	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181102131219	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 6 November 2018, at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
