ParlaMint-DK_20180208100052	The meeting is open. From a member of the Danish Parliament Pernille Skipper, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 12 February 2018 onwards she will be able to rejoin the Ting. Jesper Kiel's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 145 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Jakob Sølvhøj (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Marianne Jelved (RV) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 71 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution requiring fewer persons to be deprived of the right to vote in local elections for reasons of disability) The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180208100209	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208100238	Jacob Mark has applied for leave from 19 February 2018, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208100312	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the first deputy of the Socialist People's Party in the Storkredit of Zealand, Tina Boel, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 19 February 2018, on the occasion of Jacob Mark's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? If that is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208100332	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 101 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The Committee's position has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208100406	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. We're gonna have a little quiet down here. Thank you. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 35 by Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Hans Andersen (V), Laura Lindahl (LA), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 65 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions: 21 (DF). Proposal for adoption No V 35 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 34 of Bent Bøgsted (DF), Finn Sørensen (EL) and Torsten Gejl (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208100527	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 37 by Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Hans Andersen (V), Laura Lindahl (LA), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 65 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions: 21 (DF). Proposal for adoption No V 37 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 36 of Bent Bøgsted (DF), Finn Sørensen (EL) and Torsten Gejl (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208100642	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208100702	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 101 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208100736	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208100749	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 101 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208100819	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208100834	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 101 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208100906	No amendments have been tabled. Here you go, sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208100926	Today is a great day, because it is a good day for justice. Today, we are going to remove the pre-retirement period with a backward effect in relation to claims and claims against managing authorities, a proposal which means that the limitation period will no longer be able to prevent, for example, the fact that the period of limitation has not been extended until the end of the year. the good-port boys may bring claims for damages in cases where the authorities have failed fatally. The Godhavn boys, who are also sitting in Parliament's seats today, and others can now bring justice before the courts, demand redress in the courts, see if cases can be won in the courts, and they get that opportunity because a united Parliament will soon press the green buttons. I'm really glad there's a whole Parliament doing that. This is an important signal that we are sending out as Parliament, so the fight will continue in the courts now in relation to the claims cases. The claims aren't the only ones in this area. We still need people like the goodport boys to get an official apology. We have not yet reached that stage, but we saw in the debate that took place last Tuesday in Parliament that a united opposition now believes that an apology should be given to the good-port boys and others who have been in similar situations. That's good. This means that we can tell the voters that when there comes an election and hopefully a new majority then there will also be an apology. That is important, I think, to tell the public today. However, in relation to what we are going to vote on, it is about justice now being given a second chance in the courts. That is what is being opened up today, and that is why it is a good day for justice when we now press the green buttons.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208101149	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208101159	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 101 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208101230	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208101302	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 82 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 4 (SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208101335	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208101356	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. Has everyone voted? The vote is over. In favour 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208101447	I think I'm just gonna wait until the hall is emptied of those who aren't supposed to be here. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I must ask for calm now that you have had the opportunity to leave the Chamber if you do not want to be here. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208101647	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208101714	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208101735	Thank you, President. I shall start by saying that the Social Democratic Party is voting for this bill. It can be said that when the President reads up the title of the bill, it may sound very technical, and then many citizens may think: what is in this for us? But I would say that, yes, this is a legislative proposal which deals so much with citizens and patients. This is about what kind of framework you set for new treatment, about new medicine in the future. It is a question of security for citizens, and it is a question of goodness in the way in which clinical trials are conducted, among other things. It's also a question of how this bill will make Danish legislation an EU regulation in this area. As far as the purpose of the legislative proposal is concerned, it is a question of new regulation in the regulation I have just mentioned, in relation to clinical trials, where the aim is to promote the number and quality of experiments in Denmark and thus also to support the growth of new and better medicines, not only in Denmark but throughout the European Union. And it is a question of establishing a comprehensive set of rules that will ensure both subjects involved in clinical trials, for example. medicines, their rights and ensure the development of reliable trial data on medicinal products. So, yes, technically, but in other words, it supports research and thus the benefits to the population and patients now and in the future. So it's absolutely crucial that we get a look at this. We do this on an ongoing basis because we are a very decent country where we focus very much on patient safety. I usually say, as the health rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, that nothing is more important than patient safety, and I would also like to say this in this context. It is a matter of ensuring improvements and development in a timely manner so that the overall treatment of patients can work. And that is what we are setting as a target in relation to the fact that we want an incredibly well-functioning and robust healthcare system. It is the case that when we talk about regulations and changes in legislation in this way, yes, one must understand that what today's treatment • medical treatment and other forms of treatment • is based on is the data and research of the past. And the data collection we are doing today and the research we are doing today will be the starting point for future patient treatment and new medicine. That's why it's so important. There are four main elements of the draft law here, which I would just like to mention briefly. It is to ensure the viability of the individuals involved in and involved in the management and structure of clinical research projects, in other words to ensure their impartiality in relation to the processing process. And, of course, it is to ensure that there are no extraneous interests involved in the decisions to be taken in this area. Then there is something that may sound a little gloomy, but we have to deal with the fact that at some point we have to die, and research is also being carried out in the very last time of a person's life. It is incredibly important that we also have the opportunity here to gather knowledge so that we can also make the absolutely last part of life as good as possible and perhaps even take initiatives for new treatment options that can help save lives. Here some frameworks are set up in relation to the data being collected in that very acute phase of a disease course, where, for natural reasons, it is not possible to subsequently ask the subject for permission to use the data. We in the Social Democratic Party think that this is an important issue to focus on, and that is now being set in motion. Now, after all, this is a question of an EU regulation, so there are a great many elements in the legislative proposal that are about ensuring how, across national borders within the European Union, properness and patient safety can also be ensured. Therefore, a set of rules has also been set up for inspectors from other countries' pharmaceutical organisations so that they can actually come here, in the same way as Danish experts, if they are in charge of research projects, can come to other countries. Finally, there is the question that EU countries can also share data to support research. It has then been my lot as the first rapporteur in connection with this bill to sum up the law. I started by saying that the Social Democratic Party supports this bill, and I will end by saying that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208102258	Thank you. Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208102307	As the Social Democrats' health rapporteur mentioned, this is a very technical proposal, and that is probably one of the things I would like to raise with the Minister, because if we find it difficult to understand, how will we get the citizens to understand what a bill like this contains when it concerns patients to a large extent? There are five different proposals in the law here: it is a new regulation of clinical trials on medicinal products; there is the capacity requirement; there is the use of information from deceased persons in acute situations; there are inspections; and then there is the transmission of data. Some of the places are more stringent requirements, for example. The need for flexibility, where there will be more strict rules as to when you are able to participate in trials. We fully support that. We would like to ask some questions about the new regulation of clinical trials on medicinal products, which extends the law on clinical trials and the law on the scientific treatment of scientific research projects in the field of health. For us, it is important that there are transparent rules, that consent is obtained when possible. As far as the matter of deceased people is concerned, it is important that you get relatives and that you do what you can to obtain their consent. Furthermore, it is important that you are informed if you pass on data from patients. It is incredibly important that we can explain to the citizens what is happening. Every time we talk about trials, there are quite a lot of misunderstandings, and I think that we health rapporteurs have often been sitting with incredibly many e-mails when we talk about trials on medicinal products and when we talk about the transmission of health data, and that is why I want us to get more clear how we can pass that knowledge on to citizens, and how we can either give consent or the opposite on health.dk ourselves, and how we can ensure that we get that information on what it is used for. Part of this is also covered by the EU regulation, and it is related to the whole personal data law, etc., and that is also why we can now come to these inspections with each other. I think it is very important that, when we are going to do something at European level, we in the European Union should be able to work together when it comes to getting the best treatment for those people who have a diagnosis that is perhaps rare or that can in other ways give us more knowledge. In relation to people who have been subjected to acute trauma, I often think back to the Præstø accident, which was incredibly tragic, where several young people came into pretty cold water and where seven of them had cardiac arrest, and there, thanks to research that the goose-eyes allowed themselves to use, in fact, the lives of these young people because they used it. It can be said that sometimes doctors must be able to act resolutely and dare to take a risk by using some of the latest research. So after that accident it has become very well known, and that is why we are very happy that we should of course be able to do these research attempts. As I have said, we will have some questions for the extended use of clinical trials in particular, but we will take that in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208102658	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left, is the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208102704	Today, we are discussing a legislative proposal that will both contribute to improving the quality of clinical trials on medicinal products and improve the safety of subjects when participating in trials. Medical research and clinical trials with medicinal products are crucial for the development of our healthcare system. If we look back just 10 or 20 years, our options were some other than they are today. The knowledge we have today allows us to treat other diseases than we have been able to deal with in the past. And if we look further back, things will become even clearer. Nowadays, we can get penicillin or other antibiotics if the body can't handle a inflammation of the throat or pneumonia itself. But before 1928, when Sir Alexander Fleming discovered the penicillin, the reality was that there was no cure for inflammation of the throat or pneumonia. Penicillin was and is a medical revolution. But it is not only the English who have strong traditions here. Just think of our own August Krogh, who in 1920 received the Nobel Prize in physiology and medicine for his contribution to improving insulin, or the nurse Elise Sørensen, who invented the stomia bag. This kind of revolution, big and small, will only become a reality because there are people who devote their working lives to health science research. And, fortunately, progress is fast, and skilled researchers are constantly finding new opportunities to treat different diseases and improve overall patient care in the health care system. But it is not only the researchers who are crucial to development. Those who make themselves available for clinical trials are also crucial to the progress of development. That is why we must ensure a good framework for both researchers and for subjects. Without their contribution, the development that is so crucial to our society would, of course, stall, not least at a time when we are living longer and longer. The bill here contributes to health science research through a number of initiatives. Danish research is recognized in most of the world, and I venture the fur and say that we have world-class knowledge. pharmacists, labs and a large number of other professionals who benefit from the fact that we can export both knowledge and finished products. Last year, the growth team for the life science sector presented a number of recommendations. About innovation, the growth team writes, and I quote: the framework for developing new innovative and effective treatments must be improved so that patients can access the latest and most effective treatment. This requires an increased focus on strengthening public and private research, optimising the framework for clinical research, ensuring better and safer access to health data, as well as a smooth and effective setup for testing, approving and monitoring all life science products. Quote out. As the growth team also points out, it is crucial that we create a good framework for transparent and trusting public-private cooperation between healthcare and companies. Because there is no doubt that there are many considerations to be taken into account. Hability is crucial, because one must be able to rely on Danish research to be carried out without undue influence. With new capacity requirements, it is intended to strengthen independent processing. Research projects must be implemented and carried out without, for example: the influence on unauthorized industrial interests. With the new demands, we strengthen confidence in the credibility of the people involved as neutral professionals. The bill also opens up the possibility of including data from a deceased subject in special cases. The bill ensures the use of data when a subject who has been included in an acute trial dies and it is not possible to obtain the consent of his or her relatives. And it can be absolutely crucial for research to get a single person's data with too. The draft law also emphasises that we cooperate with other EU or EEA countries when it comes to the inspection and sharing of data in clinical trials. For just as the Danish medical inspectors may need to carry out inspections in other EU or EEA countries, other countries may also need to carry out inspections in Denmark. We are already working together today, but with the legislative proposal we will ensure that the current practice has a regulated framework. In the Left we are very concerned to promote and strengthen Danish health science research and support the bill as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208103137	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208103145	Thank you for the floor. After all, we are dealing with a legislative proposal which the Socialist rapporteur quite rightly said is about the fact that all sorts of other movements are taking place in this area. There is a regulation coming from the European Union that regulates it here. We ourselves have already made a new law on clinical trials a couple of years ago, and that is why there is now such a kind of relocation of some clauses for the rules we have today and into this new law. In addition, of course, there are other elements. The bill that we dealt with I think it was back in 2015 or it was 2016, it was at least around there we voted against. We did so because we believe that the law now proposed in relation to clinical trials weakens the scientific ethics committee system. There was a centralisation of the system at that time, and there was also a weakening of the representation of laymen. The scientific ethics committee system is, of course, about the fact that, in addition to the development of ideas for research among health professionals and among industry, we must also have some who take a stand on ethics in the experiments that we have. That is why we think it is a pity that that system was weakened at the time. In that law back in 2015, it was also written here about the need to be able to experiment in acute situations in the future, that is to say on people who are unconscious, even though those people cannot give prior consent. This could also be done before, but what became new was that in the past, where one had to obtain a consent from what was called a trial guardian, who was a doctor who was not involved in the experiment, one struck this requirement that one should obtain such consent from an experimental guardian. So that is the reason for the legislative proposal that lies here, namely that we continue to work on it. I would like to deal with two of the elements of this bill. One relates to the specific capacity requirements already mentioned by several of my colleagues. It is about the fact that we already have some rules that say that when you are involved in approving new scientific experiments, processing applications and such things, it is not just the ordinary capacity requirements that should apply. Then we must also have some special ones which ensure that we do not have, for example. the interests of industry, which could be contrary to the task to be contested. You then move that requirement into the new law. It is, of course, perfectly reasonable to do so, and we can support that part. It was also promised when the legislative proposal I was talking about was put forward in one of the answers we received at the time. The second part of the legislative proposal that I would like to address is the question of whether data from attempts at unconscious patients can be accessed in situations where the patient dies and therefore cannot give consent. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also said before that it is, of course, sensible to have knowledge, even when there is an emergency treatment. You have to be able to do that in order for us to be better at it. What I am having a problem with this area is that I believe that consideration for the patient has been weakened so much that it is no longer necessary to obtain the consent of others who are not part of the experiment, and now we can end up in a situation where nobody else has been asked, for example. a trial guardian or next of kin. The patient dies, and you cannot ask him afterwards. It seems to me that the balance of consideration for the patient has been tipped in this context, and that is why we cannot support access to the data when protection is as poor as it is today. That is why there is one element that we think is really sensible and one that we cannot support, and so we end up abstaining from voting on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208103559	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208103614	Thank you. The purpose of this bill is to ensure that Danish legislation is in line with EU legislation in relation to trials on medicinal products. In concrete terms, new, specific capacity requirements are introduced into the law on clinical trials of medicinal products and the committee law, so as to protect research from unauthorized interests. In addition, both laws provide for the possibility of using the data of deceased persons when they have participated in an emergency attempt. When conducting an experiment, it is incredibly important that such data be included. It may potentially distort a research result if in one group there are subjects who die and data from these people cannot be used. In addition, there are some minor clarifications to the law. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208103708	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next is Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208103727	Thank you for the floor. We are voting in favour and we are in favour of the three parts of the legislative proposal. Transparency is one of the core values of the alternative. That is why we welcome the draft law's part on eligibility requirements, as it will contribute to greater transparency and independent processing. Further, we welcome the bill's part on the use of data from the deceased, as it will improve the quality of research and thus provide even better treatment options for our future acute patients. We believe that there should be a strong interest in scientific results being as accurate as possible and that the results should not be distorted if important parts of the material are deleted. In addition, we have noted that the Ethical Council has stated the following: "There is no doubt that the relatives immediately after the death are in a vulnerable situation, and it requires a special tact and empathy to talk to them about experimental participation, which may speak for a certain wait-and-see position in relation to contact with the relatives. In some situations, therefore, there may be good reasons not to push the relatives further in relation to contact. We also welcome the third part of the draft law on two foreign inspection provisions, as it will give foreign authorities easier access to assess the credibility of experimental data. So we are positive and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208103905	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208103912	This bill aims to strengthen the framework for clinical trials of medicinal products and other medical research. We are introducing specific capacity requirements for those involved in dealing with decisions on research projects. This seems to us radically to be very sensible, because, when we are dealing with medical attempts at human beings, there is, of course, a great need for transparency in possible conflicts of interest. In addition, the draft law lays down detailed rules on the use of data from the deceased or people who are not themselves able to consent to participate in research attempts. In both cases, of course, the consent of the deceased or the patient's relatives is sought, but in some cases and for certain reasons it is not always possible. So, in exceptional cases, this bill will allow us to deviate from the requirement for consent, but, as I said, it is only in special cases, and we in the Radical Left are satisfied with that. Finally, the draft law contains a change in relation to the fact that all subjects must give separate consent to foreign authorities acting as medical inspectors, and we are also satisfied with that part. So the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208104034	Thank you. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208104042	Thank you. SF supports this proposal to amend the law on clinical trials of medicinal products and the law on the scientific treatment of medical research projects. We believe that the law will strengthen the regulation of clinical trials on medicinal products and, above all, strengthen the capacity requirements for research. It is a relationship that SF has also previously requested. However, it is crucial for us that citizens and/or relatives are given, as far as possible, good and qualified opportunities to consent to research involving the individual, including that the information on the purpose and consequences of consent is provided in an understandable manner. The fact that each citizen has a good understanding of what participation in clinical trials entails is, and remains, a prerequisite for the continued support of citizens for health research. However, as I said, the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208104145	That. Then it's Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208104151	Thank you. The aim of the bill here is to promote and strengthen Danish health science research. It is research that is essential for the continued development of a well-functioning healthcare system. Conservatives take a positive view of the proposed capacity requirements. There is a need for good public accountability rules and it is positive that we strengthen the transparency of conflicts of interest. In addition, there is a need for specific capacity requirements to complement the general rules on inability. Finally, it makes good sense to ensure that data are obtained from deceased persons who have participated in experiments, even if the consent of the survivors cannot be obtained. However, it is also important that trial officers have repeatedly tried to obtain answers from the survivors. It is made clear in the bill that the trial officer must have made repeated and real attempts to get in touch with the relatives. The material distributed to the relatives shall also indicate that they have the possibility to oppose the use of data obtained during the experiment. That is clarified in the bill. With those comments, the Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208104313	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208104320	Thank you for your comments on the bill. Although this is a technical legislative proposal, I think that a great many people are able to pull it down from the technical point of view and turn it into a question of general principles which will help improve legislation in a number of areas. I also think that the interest that I see in today's Chamber shows broad support for the strengthening of the framework for clinical trials on medicinal products and other health research in Denmark. So thank you for the statements made during the debate. I think it is important that we ensure a proper framework for the research and development that we have, because ultimately this will help to improve patient care in Denmark. We already have a good basis for pharmaceutical research in Denmark, and with the regulation and the Danish primary law on clinical trials with medicinal products, we will have an even better basis forward-looking when both the regulation and the law will be ready for application from the end of 2019. After all, the draft law will ensure that the rules on independent processing and the use of experimental data from the deceased will be the same for both drug trials and for other health science projects. The law on clinical trials and the committee law propose the introduction of specific capacity requirements. I can hear that there are others who welcome this. This also adds to the general rules on incompatibility in the administrative law. These demands must strengthen confidence in the credibility of the people involved as neutral professionals. We also propose that both laws introduce rules on the use of data from the deceased who have participated in emergency trials. This is one of the things that several people have both commented on and asked about, and I will, of course, also do what I can to clarify it in committee. I just think it is important to say that this is ultimately about improving patient care and patient safety. This is, of course, far more important than just what is like the immediate, namely the research dimension, because the research dimension must provide a basis for a future better patient treatment. It has to be said that, as it is today in cases where people die after or during an emergency attempt and where no consent can be obtained, data are derived from the whole experiment. This means that there is a risk today of having colored results which indicate that a treatment is more positive than it really is because people who have died as part of the experiment are not being talked to. In the period from 2007 to 2017, 14 acute trials were authorised. These are acute trials which have covered from 3 persons to 1,500 reported subjects, i.e. an average of 292 people. But if we take some of the small experiments where we are down to three people and do the simple math and it is not to simplify it that a person dies during the experiment, if you cannot obtain consent, even if you have tried it repeatedly, you will risk a research result that would otherwise show that a third died anyway, suddenly only showing the positive side, because there will only be two left. So although this ethically is a dilemma, because we are talking about consent and the issues that lie in it, we must have in mind what this could mean for future patient treatment, if we get a staining of the research results to a too positive side, because we are in danger of using something that may not have the effect that we are really assuming. That is why it is also a question for me of patient safety, and it is a question of ensuring that, when we do research in this area, we also ensure that both the negative consequences and the positive consequences of the initiative are taken into account. That is why it has also been important to note that if you read some of the hearings, which were also read out by the Alternative's rapporteur, to point out that, although there is this ethical dilemma, the majority, as is also apparent from the Ethical Council's hearing, can support the proposal. There have also subsequently been some clarifications, also on the basis of a series of consultation responses, which the Conservative rapporteur presented, which, of course, emphasizes here the need to have contact with relatives repeatedly in order to obtain a substitute consent. However, there may be situations, as the Ethical Council also writes in their hearing answer, where the situation of the relatives is such that one should not keep pushing or where one should see that there are no relatives from whom one can obtain consent. In addition, the law on clinical trials proposes two provisions which correspond to current practice. These are access to experimental sites by foreign medical inspectors and the right to pass on experimental data to the EU and foreign authorities. So, as has also been said, this is a technical proposal on some points, but on other points it should help to improve the framework for patient treatment in Denmark in the future and help to increase confidence in those people who also have to deal with research by strengthening the capacity requirements. I will do what I can to help ensure that the committee procedure is as informed as it can and, of course, make me available for the questions that the committee has on the way. However, I would like to thank you here for the statements that have been made about broad support for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208104859	Thank you to the Minister for Health. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208104914	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208104927	Thank you. Then it is a question of tattooing, and it is a question of having a law that regulates the tattoo area. We have tried politically in the past to create a set of rules, but it has not really succeeded. Now we in the Socialist Group hope that this law will succeed, and that is why I would like to say at the outset that we support the legislative proposal that is before us. This about tattooing concerns a lot of citizens, and it depends entirely on how the trend, trend and popularity are in society. It changes from one decade to the next. It has been popular for a number of years to have tattoos made, to have an aesthetic expression on your body via a tattoo, but we must also say that it has been a completely unregulated area, and that is why we health rapporteurs have been made aware from many quarters that getting a tattoo, if it is not done under orderly, regulated, hygienic, high-quality conditions, can have negative consequences for those who get a tattoo. Let me just mention infections, eczema and allergies. So we have found that it is politically right to deal with it. Therefore, we also tried back in 2013 with the start of 1 January 2014 to create a voluntary industry-managed scheme, which made industries join and register and follow a set of rules. No one has wanted to follow that set of rules, which is why we must simply say that it has had no effect, and that is why we in the Social Democrats are satisfied that the proposal is being put forward now, put into a new and different framework. And why is that? Because it is therefore very important that we strengthen consumer safety and information in this area. After all, we are right to pride ourselves politically and in general on the fact that we are a very regulated and proper society, and therefore we cannot look at the fact that there is an area that is so totally unregulated in every way, and that is why I believe that it is good to do this. The law proposed here has different elements. The main element is that a mandatory registration system must be established for all tattoo sites, whether it is a place where a tattoo is short-term or long-term. If, like, it's professionally being tattooed, then you have to register. The registration must take place at the Danish Security Agency, and it is also the Danish Security Authority that must ensure that the supervision that has been set up is subsequently carried out with the entire industry, i.e. supervision of both those who have already been registered and those who have not been registered. Of course, it's important now to look at this law and say: is there any confidence that the industry will support this bill and register in the mandatory registration system? We have to say yes to that. When I look through the hearings, I would say that I believe that the industry has been able to see itself in it. But I think it is in everyone's interest that the stray vessels should be separated, and that is in the interests of the Social Democrats as well. What do you expect from this law? So, as popularity is today, it is estimated that 600 places or so will be registered. But, as I said at the outset, it is a bit of a question of how popularity is in society. This is a very dynamic size. It has certainly been historic. I want to say that we must politically keep our hands on this, and that is why we must, of course, also ensure that the law is evaluated. That is one of the things that we in the Socialist Group want to raise in committee. I may not think I came across such a clear clarification, but it may be that, when the Minister comes to the floor, the Minister can clarify what is intended in relation to evaluation. But we think this is important. In any case, we must keep up politically, not just in a few years' time, but also on a regular basis, with the industry registering. There I would recommend to the Minister to ensure that our rapporteur meetings follow this up a little, because I think it is really important to get started. And this is just a matter of making some moves on the part of the Security Department. As I said, the Security Authority must also do the supervision, and it seems to me to be in a reasonable framework. Then there are other elements such as hygiene requirements and consumer information. There I think it is very good that it is the Board of Patient Safety that is empowered to set the requirements for hygiene and information. We also think, although this is something we are always very aware of, that it is fine for the Minister to be empowered to set up the set of rules for cosmetic tattoos. Finally, let me say that we are very pleased to see that what is also the old law in this area is maintained in relation to the fact that it must still be forbidden to tattoo people under the age of 18. It must also be prohibited to tattoo in the head, on the neck and on the hands. The Social Democratic Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208105505	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208105508	Yeah, here we are again. Now we are again trying to make a law on the tattoo area. I have some questions that I would like to ask the rapporteur. I know that we will of course have to discuss this in our committee, but I also know that there are a lot of people who are interested in hearing where it is that the parties are related to some of the things that many tattooists are dissatisfied with in relation to the bill. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he thinks it is fair that a single-person company with a single tattoo operator should pay the same in registration as a large company with 10 or 20 tattooists.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208105542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208105544	I think we simply need to make an assessment of this. We do not want it to be a registration of individuals, but of a company, and that is why I think it is problematic to make a modulation because it may well be that you start with there is only one person, but who knows who you are going in on Wednesdays and on Sundays to cover this, and whether or not this is also a sudden expansion of the company. So I am actually very pleased with the framework now in place, but I would very much like to see it included in an evaluation of this area. But otherwise I think that the entire fee structure is good, including the setting of a low fee that is the same for everyone, and if it turns out that there are problems and there needs to be more supervision out there, it will be the companies that actually have the problems and where you make the risk-based that will pay for it. In fact, I think that is a fine principle, particularly in response to the rapporteur, that no more expenditure should be transferred to the individual registered place than is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208105644	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208105647	But now I am also asking, because if we just let this go, it is just like social dumping, which I know the Social Democrats are very opposed to, which we also welcome. Because with this law it will be the case that the one-man company, which has had a tattoo place for many years in Denmark, works at the prices that are now needed to have a business going on, while then across the street there can come a home helper and look up a tattoo salon, where she hires ten East Europeans to come and tattoo at a dumping price. And that would then mean that we have a tattoo artist across the street who might have to close down his profession, that is, because there are some people coming and driving at low prices. It must be social dumping a lot. And I'm wondering if that's what Social Democracy wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208105734	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208105735	In any case, that is quite correct and I am very pleased that the rapporteur says that social dumping is something we see as a very great threat in our society. That is why we must also have fixed pay and employment conditions. But it is really difficult in a legal complex like this to be involved in governing whether there are people entering the country who are not supposed to be here and who are subject to wage dumping. This is not, of course, an area covered by agreements, but I would really like to take part in the committee's proceedings in trying to see whether we can do anything to ensure precisely the working conditions that are being worked out. Well, our society wasn't at all this organized and rich society if we didn't have the working conditions in Denmark; we need that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208105817	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208105828	When I had to write this speech for today, I thought it was a deja vu. I've been standing here before. I have been working on this law for ten years now, ten years, when we have wanted to regulate a market, as the rapporteur before me also called it the Wild West. What was the reason for this in 2008 by the Danish People's Party? It was a lot of figures that showed just as the rapporteur also mentioned poor hygiene, more who visited our health care because something had happened to their tattoos, inflammation and other things where health crowns needed to be used. And we saw that this was something we had to do something about. Marlene Harpsøe from the Danish People's Party raised this in this Chamber. And a proposal was made for adoption, which includes, among other things: The Danish Parliament notes that there is a need for regulation of the tattoo profession, which ensures that tattooists are trained and qualified to perform tattoos, and that tattoo colours do not contain harmful substances. The Danish Parliament therefore instructs the government to take the initiative in establishing an authorisation scheme for tattooists, where the individual undergoes a basic course in basic knowledge of hygiene, wound care and the use of dyes and learns to tattoo. The course can, for example: is offered by the professional organisation of the profession.... Everyone voted in favour of the proposal for adoption in 2008. Then what happened? Then came the year when ministers dragged it off until there was a minister in 2013 who took it up and made a voluntary arrangement. Tattooers could choose to register voluntarily and pay DKK 15,000. to get a mark in the window or not, and then nothing happened. I understand they didn't just pay $15,000. Just to be in and registered as a company and get a sticker on the door. When I look at the bill here, I would first like to say that it is nice that we get to a point where we say that it should now be compulsory. But there are still a lot of things missing. The reason why we took this up at all is because you have to know that it's a tattooist that can be tattooed, we get none of this law. We're not gonna get any of the hygiene requirements in this law. It says that you can take a hygiene course and put the note up in your salon, and then you have it. There is no requirement. Well, there are tattooists who today take a 6-hour course to get a knowledge of different skin types, how to tattoo, how hygiene should be, so that we can make sure they are. I believe that it should at least be part of the law. It should at least be the case that all tattooists, and not just the place, must be registered, that of course you cannot open a place until you have a stamp on the fact that hygiene and washing are as it should be, etc., and that you have things that need to be sterile and that you have a registration so that you can open up. 'Cause otherwise it'll be like I said to Mr. Knox. Flemming Møller Mortensen says that as a home helper who may have tattoos, but who has no idea about tattooing, can open a shop and hire a lot of foreigners who in this law don't have to pay anything either, it's free of charge. And then it's just me who's responsible. This means that if I find out that any of the people I hire are doing something wrong they forget to wash their fingers and do not put on gloves, so that the tattoo gets collapsing, it is the owner who is responsible. It's bad luck. Maybe I'll close or get a ticket. But that tattooist can go somewhere else and do exactly the same thing. What are we talking about when we're talking about doctors making mistakes? Then we have to come after them. They're under the skin of people, too. What makes the difference here? If anyone is in doubt, I can say that I am tabling some amendments and I hope that we will have a talk about it in committee. I hope that we can get a majority so that we can do some of what the tattooists themselves want. In fact, they want a more restrictive law than the one that the Minister brings. So these were supposed to be my words. But I hope that we will have a very good committee and that we will listen to the tattooists who are out there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208110318	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208110320	If tattoo was a folk sport, it might be the biggest folk sport in Denmark, because more than 600,000 Danes have a tattoo. This makes Denmark one of the most tattooed nations. I've seen and admired many beautiful tattoos, and I've met people where I almost felt sorry for the poor people who have to live with some climbing or some makk on the skin or suffer from an infection or an allergic reaction after a tattoo. About 12%. experience genes after a tattoo, and we have seen sad examples of amputations after tattoos. So our love for tattoos can have its price. It shouldn't be like that. A folk sport like a tattoo must be safe and secure. With this bill, we're setting a new framework for the tattoo business. We increase security, and we make demands. We are doing away with the voluntary registration system led by the former Socialist-led government. Voluntary registration has not had support or soundboard in the industry. Yeah, actually, not a single tattoo site has been registered. Personally, I think that's too bad. Now we are saddled; we are taking the tattoo pin in the other hand, if you may say so. The new legal requirements mean that all tattoo stations will now be met by a compulsory registration system, as well as requirements for proper infectious hygiene. It is also crucial that consumers can feel safe. In the case of inadequate hygiene, we are not just talking about the risk of minor local inflammations; we are talking about the risk of hepatitis B or C infection, just as HIV can be transmitted. Diseases can be transmitted, for example: through unclean needles or through tattoo ink, and who dreams of cirrhosis or liver failure? I don't think anyone does. That is why hygiene needs to be tightened up so that in the future we have a safe tattoo and not a sad tattoo. This also means that the tattooists inform each consumer in writing of possible risks, so that consumers can decide, on an informed basis, whether tattooing is the right thing for them. But consumer safety is about much more than hygiene; it is also about the colours or ink used by the tattoo artist. Tattoo colours are covered by EU legislation and that makes sense, because the trade in ink and colors is very much international. But to ensure that the consumer is safe, for example, if there is one. If complications occur, the tattoo sites must keep written documentation so that each colour can be traced and identified for each tattoo. Information must be kept for 5 years. We must avoid that more people end up in the same situation as Jimmy of Nørre Nebel, who, in the wake of a tattoo, had an allergic reaction that could not be cured unless his legs were amputated piece by piece, so today he has only a small piece of left thigh left. I note that in the consultation answers there is broad support for a compulsory registration system, just as I note that the professional independent tattooists want a modified fee structure with regard to the supervisory regime. For us in the Left, it is crucial that it is the industry itself that finances its own supervision. However, we recognise that it may be appropriate to look at the level of fees when the supervision in 3 years' time is transferred to a risk-based supervision. Last but not least, I would like to mention that we in the Left support maintaining the ban on tattooing for people under 18 years of age. We know that about 13%. They regret their tattoo, and it is particularly unfortunate if, at a time of carelessness at a young age, they have allowed themselves to be tattooed and then regret an act that is difficult, yes, almost impossible to roll back to the starting point. We also support the continued maintenance of the ban on tattoos on hands, neck and head. Large facial tattoos, for example: have consequences in relation to job opportunities, and I must be honest to say that I was surprised when I read that 42 per cent. of the population find tattoos ugly or scary. On the other hand, we in the Left fully recognise that cosmetic tattoos, for example. eyebrows or eyelids can give quality of life and increased self-esteem to those people who for one reason or another have lost all hair and should therefore not be included in a ban. The Left can support the draft law as put forward, and I would like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the draft law as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208110753	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten... Sorry, there was a short remark. This is from Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208110806	Mrs. Jane Heitmann doesn't get away so cheaply. "Makværk·," says Mrs. Jane Heitmann. I'm thinking, you get into a tattoo place and get a tattoo done that's gonna be a mess, and you complain about it. So the owner gets a ticket, or what happens? You pay a fine or you close the store. But what about the tattoo artist who made it? Then he can go and get a job somewhere else or lower himself or something else and keep doing it. So what is the reason why the Left does not want to register tattooists themselves, so that they are judged by the work they do, and so also foreigners, when they come here as guest tattooists, are registered, so that you know who it is you get a tattoo of, and that they have an education behind them, whether it is master's teaching or how, but that it is done in that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208110911	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208110912	Yeah, back and forth is equal. When we in the Left think it is really fine that we are now setting up to register the tattoo shop and not the individual tattoo artist, it is of course because one must assume that the owner of each tattoo venue has an interest in delivering a proper quality. I would also like to say that it is perfectly legitimate for consumers to perhaps go in and ask about some of the work that the tattoo operator has done in the past. Perhaps you can even talk to some of those who have had tattoos made in that place and thus make sure that what is being done is nice. Now, of course, we are dealing with legislation to ensure that there is a hygienic framework in the registered places.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208111004	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208111006	Thank you very much. Another thing in relation to this makwork: the rapporteur was talking about this with whether you liked tattoos or not, and that tattoos in different places were not always equally pretty, but that eyebrows should be allowed to be made. I would say that for me, some of those eyebrows may be uglier than a tattoo. But I would like to hear: you are usually business-friendly in the Left. Do you think it is reasonable that a single tattoo artist should pay more or have to wait 3 years for you to look at the fees before trying to change them? Wasn't that something you wanted to take in the committee work?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208111044	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208111044-2	The starting point for us in the Left is that it is the industry itself that has to finance this supervisory system. I think that's what I hear from the industry, too, that you're prepared for the fact that it's not free of charge to be supervised. But I also think it is perfectly legitimate if the Danish People's Party wishes to raise the discussion in committee. We'd be happy to take it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208111110	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208111115	Thank you. Yes, the attentive listener has probably discovered that today there is no regulation of the tattoo industry. It is true that there has been legislation that one could have such a voluntary industry-managed registration system, but the reality has been that no one has allowed himself to register, and that is why I think it is quite appropriate to conclude that it does not solve the problem that exists, because it is well known that there are various risks involved in getting tattooed. You can get severe allergies, as some have pointed out, you can get damage, for example. get toxic, causative substances under the skin, etc. Consumers have little more than their personal feeling of navigating after today, which is why something really needs to be done in this area. What the bill then envisages is a mandatory registration system for tattoo sites and that the Security Authority must supervise the area, including that, when supervised, the supervisors also look at how hygiene is handled properly. Then there is also a requirement for consumers to be provided with information. That is, in fact, good, because it is better than today to have no doubt about it. At the same time, it is also suggested that you have to register each tattoo in relation to which types of color have been specifically used, so that you can trace it back again, in case you find out that some substance has been dangerous. We would like to discuss whether we can go further, and I have also met some of those who represent the tattooists, and I also hear from them that they actually want us to go further. They are deeply concerned that they are in an industry where there are many people who do not have control of their work and who deliver something that harms the whole industry as a whole, and they themselves point out that you should look more to Sweden, where you put more firm hygiene requirements in order to open a tattoo place at all. I think that model could be interesting to discuss myself. We know from other areas, for example. in the case of solarium or tobacco sales, that it may be quite limited how often such supervision actually comes out, and thus what effect it here, and therefore it might be very sensible to turn it on its head in such a way that you should have control of hygiene, for example. by going through a course before you could even open a shop like that. You could also look at other requirements: there will be among others. I would point out that one should have a basic understanding of the rules in relation to which colors are dangerous and so on. In any case, I would like to say that I think this is far better than what is today, and that is why, of course, we support the draft law, but we would very much like to discuss whether we could do it even better. I would also like to mention that, as we are discussing the tattoo area, I think it is appropriate to highlight the proposal we have made on several occasions in this Chamber that we go in and ban the toxic substances that we know are in some forms of tattoo ink. It is well documented that there are ink containing carcinogenic substances, allergens, substances which are even banned in the production of clothing, but which are therefore allowed to be put in a tattoo ink, which comes under the skin and stays in place. In fact, there has been work in Denmark in the past in making such an announcement about which substances were not to be used in tattoo ink, but it was withdrawn, as many in this Chamber are aware, because people were afraid of coming into conflict with the EU Chemicals Directive. We thought this was a great pity, because it meant that we are waiting for the European Union and, in the meantime, there is a risk that Danish citizens will have carcinogenic and allergenic substances under their skin, and that is, in spite of the fact that we know that in many other countries we have legislation against it, among other things. Sweden. So I think it would be obvious to take that part too, as we are looking at this area and have a common desire to increase consumer safety in the area of tattooing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208111553	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208111600	It should not be a secret that we in the Liberal Alliance do not see exactly the same need for a large regulation of the tattoo profession as other parties here in the Folketing. We know that there have been examples where hygiene has not been optimal or where information has not been good enough, but I believe that it is too hard to deal with the scale of the problem. However, if we support the proposal, it is because this is a compromise in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208111643	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208111647	Thank you. That's honest talk. I would like to start by quoting a professor, Peter Bjerring, a specialist in skin diseases who has spoken out about tattoos and complications related to tattoos. He has said: "We are being sought out by people with allergies because they have injected orange, yellow or red colors into the skin. They may have scars in their tattoos because some drugs stimulate scarring, and then they have infections due to their tattoos. He is concerned that everyone can buy any drug and inject it into people. We are therefore in favour of the draft law and will vote in favour of it. Since 2013, as several rapporteurs have said, it has been voluntary to register in a trade association, and so no one has chosen to do so. Therefore, we also believe that a change is appropriate so that we can ensure proper hygiene and that dangerous chemistry is not pricked into the skin and body. After all, in many other parts of society we provide a high level of consumer protection and minimum requirements for hygiene, documentation and consumer information, and this should of course also apply to tattoo sites. What you can get yourself into is, among other things. skin problems such as bleeding, wound crust, itching and swelling, and about one in three experiences chronic or temporal genes in their tattoos. We can prevent this by ensuring and protecting consumers. There is no doubt that there are many tattoo sites where they are doing very well and where consumer protection is very close to their heart, but there are also some that are simply not doing well enough, and we have to change that. In this context, it is important to emphasise that consumer protection is important to us and that we think we should ensure the best health conditions for all of us to live a good life. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208111911	Thank you. Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208111919	The Radical Left can support the bill and think it is positive that we are now regulating the tattoo area, because there is undoubtedly a lack of regulation. And it is therefore gratifying that consumer safety is the focal point of this proposal to amend the Tattoo Act. The scheme ensures that consumers have the opportunity to use tattoo sites that meet a minimum of hygiene requirements and documentation for tattoo colours, and the future supervision of the Safety Authority will hopefully be able to ensure that the rules are also complied with. The scheme strengthens consumer information in this area, and that is also very good. As I said, the Radical Left is positive and we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208112011	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208112015	Thank you. It is not without risk to be tattooed, as the industry itself knows, and it could therefore well have been imagined that the industry had also had an interest in registering itself and thus ensuring consumer information and not least safety. However, no one has been registered since the voluntary registration law came into force in 2014. In the SF, we support this proposal, which means that in the future, tattooists must, and that's pretty much the new one with this proposal. Fortunately, the consultation answers also show that the industry itself supports the bill, as the draft law will ensure a minimum of much-needed regulation in this area. This is positive and, of course, it also provides the best conditions for the law to be implemented in good order for the benefit of consumers. Is that enough regulation? At least on behalf of the SF, I cannot promise consumers that it is now safe to be tattooed. Can we do more for security? We would really like to take part in this. In the first place, we think that this is a step forward in registration, and that is why we support the proposal in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208112135	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208112144	Thank you for your comments and the support I feel there is for the bill. As the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says, this is a matter which some of the health rapporteurs have been following not only for years but for more than a decade. And I should also like to acknowledge from the platform the perseverance which I know lies behind the struggle of some of the rapporteurs to ensure better conditions for consumers in the field of tattooing. With the bill, we go to battle against poor hygiene and complications of tattooing. We ensure proper conditions for consumers. We know that more than 600,000 Danes have a tattoo, and studies indicate that up to 12%. experience genes in connection with or after their tattoos, and in the worst case we have seen • as the Left Health Rapporteur also mentioned from the platform • examples of amputations due to complications and infections after tattoos. With the bill, we will increase the safety of consumers and reduce the health risks associated with tattooing. This is what some have called the Wild West, or what has now been said up here, that it is permitted for anyone to perform tattoos; and that without regulation. The current voluntary sector-managed registration system must, of course, be said to have not worked as intended. No one has chosen to register. The law has thus been of no practical significance, and therefore it is also time that what some of you have described as the stinging vessels of the industry be cleaned up. And I believe that, in the draft law we are discussing today, when we are introducing a compulsory registration system for tattoo sites carrying out tattoo for professional purposes, we are doing so to a large extent. The mandatory registration of tattoo sites must be carried out at the Security Authority, which will then monitor that the tattoo sites comply with hygiene requirements, tattoo colour documentation and consumer information. In relation to the whole issue of hygiene, I heard some rapporteurs who said that there were no demands, and to this I would say that it is clear from the observations made by the bill that the demands that will be made to tattoo sites in the proposed scheme will be inspired by the elements of the upcoming standard, CEN/TC 435 • Tattooing services, and this is certainly something that knows more about which I understand there has been support, including from a great many Danish tattooists, and this also applies to hygiene requirements. In addition, attention should be paid to the hygiene courses taken in addition. After all, there is nothing to prevent more hygiene courses being taken as a tattoo artist if consumer safety is to be further strengthened. However, we are laying down here with the draft law a minimum requirement which will also help to ensure a hygiene standard which, to a very different extent from what is happening today, makes it safe to have tattoos carried out. If the tattoo sites do not meet the requirements, the Security Authority will first be able to issue injunctions and, upon subsequent surveillance visits, fines, ultimate de-registration and imposition of fines. That is why sanctions are being tightened up by the legislative proposal we are debating. We also stress that it has been important for the government that the bans that apply today in existing legislation against tattooing people under the age of 18 and against tattooing in the head, on the neck and on the hands are carried on in the new legislation. However, we are opening the door for a cosmetic tattoo with a practical and theoretical content laid down by a trade association, and I would also like to thank you for your comments on the part that rules can be laid down that people who have completed a training in cosmetic tattoo with a practical and theoretical content laid down by a trade association must carry out cosmetic tattooing of eyebrows, hair bottoms, upper and lower eyelids and lips, that is to say, modernising legislation with regard to having cosmetic tattoos on their face, which we know many people are doing today, even though it is illegal under current Danish legislation. We should then just make sure that it is done in a safe way and by some people who are trained in cosmetic tattooing. The whole scheme and the basis for the bill must be financed by the industry itself through a fee charged to the owner of the tattoo site for registration and each year thereafter on the date of registration. The rapporteur for the Danish People's Party is asked: what about foreign tattooists? If you look at page 7 of the bill and thus in the note section, you can see that the foreign companies have to, and now I read up: In addition to registering the tattoo at the Danish Security Authority, you will be registered with the RUT register (register of foreign service providers) if they carry out temporary work in Denmark. If a foreign company does not report, they can be punished by a fine. Foreign companies must notify information about the service provided and the personnel seconded in connection with the provision of the service. The notification must be made at the Danish Business Authority at the latest at the same time as the provision of the new service begins. In addition, the foreign company may be liable for tax in Denmark if it has a permanent establishment in this country. I think it is just to reply to the part that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has mentioned that this means that we are also cleaning up this relationship with the fact that, as the rapporteur puts it figuratively, you can just hire ten Poles across the street, and then you can just pretend not to be registered in Denmark. No, we're also cleaning that up with the bill we're dealing with here. As the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned, a fee will also be charged for follow-up surveillance visits when issuing orders, and this is to ensure that the system does not place the tattoo places at a burden that actually meets the requirements. However, if someone does not meet the requirements, they must also pay for the additional surveillance visits themselves. Therefore, it is also my hope and expectation that it will make a difference in practice also when we talk about the whole question of the safety of colours, where there is a tightening of the requirements in relation to storage for up to 5 years, so that we can just see what it may be for some allergic reactions there are. Here I would like to say to the Enhedslisten rapporteur that what is also pointed out is that Denmark and a number of other countries, together with the EU Chemicals Agency, have produced a proposal to regulate more than 4,000 problematic substances in tattoo colours and that this proposal is going through the legislative process in the European Union. That is why, at least from the government's point of view, it is essential that we relate to the work that Denmark has contributed to and which will, of course, strengthen the safety of the colour part. And that is also what is referred to in the draft law's comments in relation to regulation in REACH. So I would like to thank you for your comments and also thank you for the very positive responses we have received. In fact, I also see this as a signal that the tattoo industry and the professional organisations support the fact that proper legislation is now finally being put in place in this area. I look forward to the committee reading and thank you for your comments today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208112929	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208112937	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that we have all come so far that there is a compulsory system. I also know that it can be very difficult for the Minister to sit three parties in a government office and to agree that there should be a law, and when you also hear that there are some who may not be quite happy with regulation. But first of all, I would like to hear from the Minister whether, when a proposal is made for adoption, it is not something that we have to live up to, even if there has been a choice. Or are you whistling indifferent to what a majority in this Chamber decides, as when in 2009 we unanimously agreed with 106 votes that we should authorise tattooists and that individuals go through a basic course in basic knowledge of hygiene, wound care and the use of dyes? What has happened since then, so that we do not want to maintain what a unanimous Parliament has decided?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208113031	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208113033	It can be said that the rapporteur himself reviewed the history of what has happened or has not happened on a number of points, and I am not going to dwell on what has not happened. I would also like to say that I am very pleased with the reception that the draft law now receives. I also experience the broad support that I hear from all the parties in the Danish Parliament as an expression of the fact that there is still a collective desire in the Danish Parliament to have legislation in this area. Now we are here almost ten years later, and I think it is important that we get the legislation in place now too. We do not have an education, nor do we have an authorisation system for tattooists in Denmark, and that is not what the government's work schedule says at this time. However, I would like to sign for the good cooperation I have had with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and also with input to the bill, which has also concluded that we have created the strong legislative proposal that we can deal with in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208113121	Thank you. Mrs. Liselott Blixt again, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208113123	I am thinking: does it not worry the Minister that most of the tattooists in Denmark would like to see the law tightened up, that is to say that you are actually constructive and make some suggestions on how to make this a better law? When they come up with these proposals, does it not worry that from in here you will come up with a gentle law or wait until the EU comes up with a regulation on hygiene requirements, instead of being able to form our regulation with the tattooists who actually know what is happening out there? Doesn't that worry the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208113158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208113159	I don't know if we've read the same hearing answers. I would say that when I read the consultation answers, I see broad support for the draft law, and I am actually pleased about that. It also underlines to me that we have established a good basis, and where at least some rapporteurs have spent a very long time on this, it has to be said that I have come to such a little later. However, I think it is actually nice that we are now having legislation that helps to raise the hygiene requirements throughout the tattoo area and also to clean up the stumbled vessels. Then I fully acknowledge that there are some who would have liked to go further, and they are welcome to do so. It is, of course, also positive consumer protection that, as a place of tattooing, we can make ourselves visible and distinguish ourselves by saying that we are doing something extra, here we are creating an extra secure framework. But now we are laying a minimum, and I think that we have laid a high, fine minimum, which also strengthens consumer safety in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208113249	Thank you, Minister. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed. About 2:00 a.m. I intend to take a lunch break at 12 noon, but we shall begin with the next item on the agenda, which is Question No. F 14.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208113314	Here you go, Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208113334	What is the reason for this question? In 2011, the VK government, together with the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives, decided that the regions should be closed down. Two committees were set up to look at a solution, but unfortunately there was a choice that put an end to the work of the committees and a red government came in. In the Danish People's Party, it has always been intended that the regions were only temporary after the counties were closed down. The idea with the regions was to ensure a uniform analysis and treatment of all Danes, regardless of where they lived in the country. Unfortunately, that uniformity has never come. When the left won the last elections, however, the decision had been taken and therefore the regions were given seven requirements they had to meet in order to preserve them. We are now more than halfway through this parliamentary term, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party believe that we must now look through the seven demands so that the government can prepare for the closure of the regions. In the Danish People's Party, our desire is still to dismantle the regions, as there are too great differences between the regions. We await the debate and hope that we can have a good and constructive dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208113458	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Then we go to the Minister of Health. Here you go for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208113512	Thank you for the question. From the government's point of view, we give priority to health care, as I know the Danish People's Party does, and we have also jointly taken a number of initiatives and raised the financial allocation for health care. Since the summer of 2015, we have raised health by 4.4 billion. kr. In addition, the total budget for the regions today is approx. 112 billion kr., which is intended to help ensure healthcare and high quality throughout the country. More doctors, more nurses have been employed in our health services, and every day, except on Sundays, a doctor has been hired on average, and every day of the week one more nurse since 2001. This means that today we have more employees in our health services, more warm hands to help patients, ensure good treatment, and that, overall, we also spend more money on our health services than we have ever done in the past. We have made a number of agreements for the benefit of Danish patients, both with the Danish People's Party alone, but also broadly with the Danish Parliament's parties. This applies, among other things, to: a right of investigation and treatment, a national action plan for strengthening the efforts of the elderly medical patient, a national dementia action plan, cancer plan IV, a national strategy for personal medicine, a new national diabetes action plan and a boost and a strengthening of the close and coherent health care system, to name but a few of the initiatives we have taken. However, we must move forward and we have more ambitions for our common health care. We have great ambitions for the health care of the future to be nurtured, for us to have the quality raised and for us to have done away with geographical inequality. That is why in 2018 we will also launch a major health policy initiative and a comprehensive plan for the development of psychiatry in Denmark. We do this in order to create better conditions for patients, for relatives and for health professionals who make a huge effort every day for patients in Denmark. We do this to ensure that our health services constantly evolve and become stronger and better. Our priorities for health today are very much in line with the priorities for health care that we, both as a party and also as a government party, have had over time. From all the way up through the 00s, where the VK government took hold, and again from the summer of 2015, when we entered government offices again, we have prioritised health, lifted it financially and implemented reforms and initiatives to improve for patients, for relatives and for our employees. If we look back that way, we took over in many ways when the VK government resigned in 2001, a health service where there was a guarantee of waiting, one could say • with long waiting times and with starving cancer treatment which was at an unacceptablely low level. We introduced patient rights, we carried out extensive health reforms, we introduced the extended free hospital choice, and we stopped waiting. We turned cancer into an acute disease, introduced cancer packages so that all cancer patients could receive faster and better treatment; we strengthened the heart area, and we made a historic investment in the super-sickhouses that we now see shooting up around the country. We also ensured with a new specialty planning that the right quality and expertise are present when specialised treatment is needed. And we very much drew a new map of Denmark with five regions and large municipalities, which could also help to replace the 14 counties and ensure a higher priority for health. Today, we can see that the high priority given to health has given rise in many ways. The chances of survival, for example. heart or cancer has improved markedly in Denmark. We have also broken all too long waiting lists that were. Ventelists back at the beginning of the 00s in 90 days have been reduced to 47 days in 2016. At any rate, I took the liberty of welcoming Denmark's excellent position on the second day on a ranking list of European health services, where Denmark was elected to have the third best health care system. In one year we have moved up six seats and, according to the study, can boast of having the third best health care in Europe, as I said. This does not mean that we should rest on the laurels; it does not mean that there is no room for improvement. There is a great deal of it. We must move on, but we can also very much welcome the fact that we have made progress, that we have made up for the poor survival of cancer, that we have made up for too long waiting lists, that we have very much a well-educated and competent health care professional, whom we can thank for the fact that in a number of areas too it is progressing and progressing in Denmark. It is a healthcare professional who treats, cares and helps and comforts everyone who uses health care, whether it is in everyday life, on Christmas Eve or in the middle of the industrial holidays. It can also be said that without them all the initiatives and priorities of the world would fall to the ground, and therefore they also deserve enormous praise for their great efforts. As I said, we have come a long way, but we also need to move on. More needs to be done in this area. That was also why, as the questioner also points out, the President of the Left and the Left, the current Prime Minister, back before the 2015 parliamentary elections formulated seven specific requirements for the regions, seven demands that the regions should prove that they could meet their responsibilities to ensure a good health service with just shorter waiting times, more equality, better cancer treatment, reduced overcrowding, patient-responsible doctors who hold our patients in their hands, focus on dementia and chronic diseases and a quick and effective rehabilitation. These are seven demands, and hence also expectations, which we have for the regions and which we continue to have for the regions, and which are also of great importance in putting the patient at the centre. The President of the regions, Bent Hansen, said at the time that these were realistic demands, and I think that this should be kept up. Now it has been two and a half years since we formulated the seven demands and we are following up as they are asked. We do so with the eight mandatory national health care objectives that we have set together with Danske Regions and KL. The eight national targets set a clear direction for the development of health care and provide a driving force for local work on quality improvements that are needed. The overriding objective of quality work is that the patient is at the heart, that there is geographical inequality in health and that we increase the quality of the treatment we receive. We are continuously following up dialogue with municipalities and regions, and if we look at the progress report for 2007 in June, it also shows that the regions have taken up the objectives and are also working with them in the ongoing quality work. But there are also places where it needs to be done better. Just take the rehabilitation area, where we have thought it has lagged, and where we as a government have therefore proposed, and also with the Finance Act agreed with the Danish People's Party, that a right for rehabilitation should now be introduced, so that we ensure that people who are discharged with a rehabilitation plan in hand also receive the rehabilitation, and if they do not experience within 7 days that the municipality ensures that the rehabilitation is available, then you have the opportunity to go somewhere else. That's because we have to lift the rehabilitation more than we do today. This is because we need to ensure that successful treatment is not followed up by poor rehabilitation, because then we know that the individual patient does not necessarily regain the skills and regain the everyday life and the life to which he or she should return. I would also say that when we look at the regions, we can see that things are moving forward, but there is also one but. I also think that it is time for the regions to take on the overall responsibility of the population. It is, in fact, a responsibility that the regions were given back in 2007 and where we can see that in some places there is too poor coherence. I also note that there is still a way forward if we want to achieve a health service with the patient at the centre and without this geographical and social inequality in health. On some points, the figures speak for themselves. Just to take a few of them, we can unfortunately see that the investigation of children and young people in psychiatry in the Capital Region has an average duration of 61 days, while the average investigation time in the Central Jutland Region is 20 days. Another example of a very large geographical difference is that the proportion of completed breast cancers during a standard cycle is 79 per cent. in the Central Denmark Region, while it is 92 in the Region of Southern Denmark, that in the Capital Region, the right of investigation was only respected for less than half of the patients in the last quarter of 2017, when in the Region of North Jutland it was for more than nine out of ten patients. If we look at the waiting time for operation, it is almost twice as high in the North Jutland Region as it is in the Central Denmark Region. Can we then say that it is good enough when, after all, it is going the right way? Yes, it is wonderful that things are progressing in many parts of the country too, but that is not good enough. It's not good enough for the individual patient to see these big geographical differences. We must ensure good healthcare throughout Denmark for all patients, regardless of the region in which they live. From the government's side and with the Danish People's Party we have therefore also raised the economy with the finance laws, and together we have also taken some targeted initiatives, among others. in the area of medical coverage, where we also see geographical differences and particular challenges in some parts of the country. This spring, the government will also come up with a health initiative to help ensure more equality, better quality and more closeness and coherence in health. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have also set aside money for this with the Finance Act. We also need to look at a new governance for health care. The 2017 Economic Agreement agreed to work on a new governance model towards the economic negotiations this spring. Together with the Danish People's Party, we phased out and suspended the 2-percent productivity requirement, which, for a long time, has contributed to the shortening of waiting lists and has freed money in our healthcare system, which has been used elsewhere, because the 2-percent requirement has not pulled money away from health care, but freed money that could be used in health care. But we have also seen that the one-sided focus on activity in recent years has meant that many people in our health care have felt that they should run stronger and stronger and perhaps not always felt that more activity was right for patients. This was also the reason why the government, together with the Danish People's Party in the autumn, decided to suspend the 2-percent requirement and create a new economic model for health care. In this context, I would like to sign up to the Danish People's Party for the positive interaction we had in this area, and also because the Danish People's Party takes responsibility both in relation to the economic boost, but also in relation to saying that where we can see that new models need to be thought of, where we need to move forward, we will also be able to take part in the responsibility. With the upcoming health issue, the government will also develop the close health care system. We already started on this with the initiative of health where you are, which we presented in December, where we have already taken steps both to strengthen the medical and health houses, where we are launching the work on a new national quality plan for the close and coherent health care that the Danish Health Authority is to help design and to raise the level in the country's municipalities, both in the field of prevention, but also in terms of ensuring a more geographical equality. The next and an even bigger move will be this spring, when we go right into the core of the machinery spaces of health care, where we will talk about the future management of health care. The government wants a health service that is closer to the citizens and that is geared to the disease images and the health challenges that we are facing now and which will come in the years to come, where we can see that there are more older people, where there are more cronys and where we can still see a group of particularly young people who are struggling with mental illness with great concern. If we are to provide them with the best possible support and treatment, we also need to ensure a new economic model that not only focuses on activity but focuses more on quality, proximity and how to ensure that treatment is carried out in a way that brings the citizen even more to the heart. This also means that the treatments must be spread out in a more fine-meshed health service, where the practitioners and municipalities must lift a considerably larger proportion of the treatments and interventions that are taking place today in hospitals, both because it is most safe and least intrusive in the everyday lives of the individual, but also because many citizens with the new, modern and specialized hospitals have got longer to the hospital. We can do this without compromising on quality, because today's development, both digitalisation and technology, means that we can offer treatment in people's own homes or close to where they live, with a high quality that we could previously only have in specialised hospitals. In this way, we can meet our ambitions for the future of health care, raise the quality of the close healthcare system and strengthen the coherence of the individual patient's treatment. So when the rapporteur and the authors of the Danish People's Party ask whether we are in the goal or whether everything has been delivered, I would say that we are well along the way, but we must move on. We need to ensure an even stronger health service, in which we have taken hold with the great geographical differences in health and where there is a great need for action and where there is a great need for political direction as well. I hope that with today's debate we can have a good discussion on how to ensure good and coherent health care for all Danes wherever they live and where we can also discuss how to develop the health care of the future and not just that we should maintain structures that are there today, but that are not necessarily the ones that give the Danes the best treatment and health care in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208115008	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208115012	Thank you very much to the Minister, and thank you very much to the Danish People's Party for having called this question debate. I can see from the wording of the question that the Danish People's Party simply wants to arrest it, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, the current Prime Minister, previously expressed, for that was a very, very clear speech there in June 2015. For then demands were made. There is a huge difference between demands and expectations. Today I hear only the Minister for Health talking about expectations, which is why I am very interested to hear whether I really hear what I want to hear or whether what I hear is right. That is why I would like to ask the Minister what Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen formulated in June 2015: • If, after this parliamentary term, the regions are unable to raise the quality of Danish health care to a new level of world class, then others have to take on that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208115115	Thank you. I think that Mr. Kevin... Flemming Møller Mortensen took advantage of my inattentiveness, but I think the Minister should nevertheless be allowed to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208115124	Thank you for the question. I also expect that we will have a round of questions a little later in the debate. I will certainly go to the platform when we have had the debate, so we will also have the opportunity to have the debate. Well, we have always said on the Left side, and that is also what the Prime Minister said at the time, that we are running health care for patients, for the citizens of this society, and that it is they who are the starting point and the focal point. And that is why it is no use, if the quality is not good enough, to say: the structure is absolutely fantastic, the management model is absolutely fantastic, but patients die. That is why our starting point is still that we must keep the regions, which are the operators of health care today, up to delivering results. And with regard to the seven points that we set up at the time, which are reworded in the eight national objectives, we can see from the progress report that it is progressing on a large number of points, but there are still places where it needs to be even better. We cannot accept the standstill of our health services. We have to develop. I think the patients expect that from us as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208115228	Thank you. It's 1-1. Then I think we'll call you at lunch. We'll start here again at 2:00 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208130000	The sitting is resumed. We are in the process of questioning No. F 14, which is a question to the Minister for Health as to whether the health care of the regions is satisfactory. It is by Mrs Liselott Blixt and Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. We have come to the debate and it is the rapporteur for the authors who is now starting. This is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208130029	First of all, I would like to congratulate our staff, who we have in our hospitals. They are basically the ones it is about, but that is not what they should take on board. This is about the way the regions manage it. We rarely hear about all the good stories. I was really happy when I was out on Monday to meet some dedicated doctors at Herlev Hospital who worked on immunotherapy and where they had no problems. You could actually work with two regions and practitioners and something like that. It would be nice if we could have some more of those stories. I will start by saying this because I will, of course, make a lot of criticism afterwards. Thank you to our healthcare professionals. In the summer of 2005, the most profound structural reform came, and it was adopted by a majority of the Danish Parliament of the Left and Conservatives and the Danish People's Party. The reform meant merging the then 13 counties into 5 regions. The central reason for their creation was to have five regions to ensure consistency in treatment quality and to smooth out geographical differences. We recognise that they have had a great deal of work on the special reform, established a hospital structure with fewer hospitals, complied with the budget and ensured productivity increases. But having said that, it has not been without problems. In relation to the super-sickhouses to be set up, parish politics took place in the choice of new hospitals; plans that exceeded budgets; decommissioning of far too many sick beds compared to the patients who were; hospitals are being built without kitchens; and there are more savings in the new projects. Each region is thinking more about what it can offer than they are looking at how they can solve the overall challenges. The doctors gather in the big cities. The regions do not cooperate to ensure better and wider medical coverage. There are several examples of you being closest to yourself. Region Sjælland, which does not have all the specialties, must then find out who should and can take some of the patients who come from there. The Capital Region demands a price that is too high and therefore they are sent to Odense instead because the Region of Southern Denmark is cheaper. Well, it's one country we have. In August 2017, data from the Danish Health Data Protection Agency revealed that one in four cancer patients was not treated on time, and from the first quarter of 2017, there has been a surprising drop at national level from 84 per cent. 77%. the number of patients treated on time. In August 2017, Cancer Combat states that in the Capital Region of Denmark, long waiting times have been waited for the treatment of cancer patients and that some patients become terminally ill while waiting for their surgery as a patient with pancreatic cancer who lost the possibility of a healing surgery due to too long waiting time. Unfortunately, this is not the only example we have had of long and life-threatening waiting times. It once again calls for a system of treatment that works as badly in many areas as it did ten years ago. Unfortunately, this is a general problem in the Capital Region. Some of this is due to the Health Platform, but it is not only because the critical conditions have been known even before the Health Platform was introduced. Another matter that has occupied us is the allergy centres that all regions should have. Three regions have set them up. I have asked the Minister who says that the region has a responsibility. They don't live up to it. Psychic beds are being closed down, so we are facing great challenges with patients who are being discharged too quickly and not receiving the necessary treatment. Overcrowding had to be solved, yes, you try with a new statement that looked really fine they had gotten beds away from the hallways until we found out it was talmagic. There's still overcrowding, and it's just not good enough. Should the regions not also be the ones that broke down the professional boundaries between the professional groups? Medical secretary positions and social and health assistant positions are abolished, so nurses now disclaim responsibility before going to work, as in Holbæk. Should the region not ensure more competences so that they could each use their competences where they are best? I could list several of these distortions, but the problem is also that responsibility is being pushed from one to the other. When I go to the Minister for Health, the Minister for Health says that it is the region that is responsible. And when I go to the region, the region says that it is the Minister who is responsible. Citizens are too far away from regional politicians. They are much closer to the health minister and politicians in here in the Folketing. That is why we believe that it is the Minister of Health who should be responsible for what can be done when something is missing in the health service. The requirements to be met were that waiting times for a diagnosis and treatment should be reduced. They have been in some areas, but not in all areas, and not everywhere. More equality in health has not been achieved either. We still have very great inequality, especially geographically. Less overcrowding, yes, in some places maybe, but as we hear, we're gonna get some new numbers on it, because we can't really count on the numbers we've got. Timely cancer treatment: Some regions can live up to it, but others not. A patient responsible doctor or doctor must be introduced. We have started so little in cancer treatment, but I do not think we will be able to do so before this period of government ends. And then a quick, effective rehabilitation which we hope will be achieved with the extra funds that have been set aside. But these are the demands to be made. I will read out our adoption text. It is by Liselott Blixt (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), May-Britt Kattrup (LA) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF): Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises that the regions have provided good health care on several parameters, including the collection of specialised hospital services, the establishment of a new hospital structure, compliance with budgets and the delivery of productivity increases. The Danish Parliament notes that there are still unacceptable geographical differences between the regions, including: in respect of the right of investigation and the treatment of cancer patients and people with mental disorders. The regions have thus failed to meet the objective of delivering uniform high quality throughout the country. The Folketing demands that the regions live up to their population responsibility and ensure the same high quality and coherent health provision across the country. The Folketing therefore instructs the government to assess whether the health care of the regions is satisfactory in the light of the national health care objectives. The left's seven requirements for the regions from 2015 are reflected in these objectives. In this context, the Danish Parliament meets the progress report on the national objectives and the reporting of the health care management review in the spring of 2018. V 38).
ParlaMint-DK_20180208130817	Thank you. First of all, the proposal for adoption is, of course, part of the debate on the future. I would like to point out once again that any vote on proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 20 February. There are a few questions, and the first is from Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208130836	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the rapporteur. I am actually surprised that the rapporteur is able to read out such a text for adoption, which, in fact, has a great deal of praise for the structure of the five regions today, because when I listen to the rapporteur's speech here, it was certainly very negative, except for the first trophe, which was a praise to the staff. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur something: does the Danish People's Party consider it a complicated task to run the hospital system in Denmark? That is the first question. What model, if the Danish People's Party is still in favour of the total abolition of the structure that we have today, does the Danish People's Party speak so positively for what to replace the regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208130929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208130930	Nothing is easy, and there is much that is complicated. I think the rapporteur should have listened when I read out that there has been a great deal of work on the special reform and the establishment of a hospital structure. It has been taken directly from my speech, which is also reflected in the text which was read and which I have prepared myself. In relation to what we want instead, one might ask what it is we are using the political layer for. They really do not know much about what is going on in the hospital, it is an extra cost, and it is not there that decisions are made anyway. What is important to us is that the Minister for Health is the one sitting at the end of the table. We have the Danish Medicines Agency, the Board for Patient Safety and other agencies, and there could also be a new hospital board where they make guidelines. That's all there has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208131019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208131023	Good luck, Minister of Health. That's quite a job. I think we are assigning enough tasks to the Minister for Health here on the part of the Danish Parliament, but it may be that a Minister for Health from the Danish People's Party will be able to solve this task to the full satisfaction of everyone in Denmark and have complete control of geographical diversity, geographical inequality. There we think in the Social Democracy and there we believe that those who are democratically elected in the Region of Zealand or in the Region of North Jutland have the best track record and are accountable to the people who live right around the members of the Regional Council. Another question to the rapporteur is: the geographical inequality says the rapporteur 'geographical inequality'. What is it that the Danish People's Party has with it of tools for a health minister to be able to seize it differently? Where should the difference be? Are there other tools? And a very specific question: does the Danish People's Party consider elected regional politicians to be irresponsible and incompetent politicians who are not democratic? That's what it sounds like. The Danish People's Party does not think it is a democratic and competent link.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208131138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208131139	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen puts many words in my mouth and thinks I mean something other than what I say. If you go out and ask the citizen how many of their regional politicians they know, they will answer that they do not know very many of them. You can also see it when there are elections, because then not many will vote for the Regional Council elections. When we ask the politicians we have, who sit out in the region, too, for the Danish People's Party, politicians who sit out there, there is not much they can do. They sit there, yes, they get some stuff on the table, but they also depend on what happens inside Christiansborg. So they get some powers, but still they can't do anything. That is the division of power that is too biased. I believe that a minister of health is looking at the whole of Denmark and not just at a single region. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. If we talk about moving jobs out of the capital, it has been one-sided, because everything has been put in somewhere instead of looking at the coherent, and that is at least one of the things that is going on for the government, that is to say, that we have to have a coherent Denmark. And I also believe that in the long run a health minister would look at how we can have a coherent healthcare system throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208131251	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208131254	Thank you. The health rapporteur for the Danish People's Party and I have on several occasions opposed the 2-percent productivity requirement, which is and remains a saving in the regions. I wonder whether the rapporteur believes that the regions are compensated for the increasing costs of more elderly people and children, new forms of treatment and new medicines. Or does the rapporteur also think that this is an economic challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208131324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208131325	First of all, I am very pleased that it was the Danish People's Party that put so much pressure on us that we got rid of the 2-percent productivity requirement. At one point I also went out to talk to the regional presidents and asked: What would you like best if you wanted something? And it was then to get rid of the 2-percent productivity requirement. That was enough, because then they had free hands. As for the other thing, with how much money has been spent, this government, together with the Danish People's Party, has put some more money off than the previous Red Government, which SF was part of at one time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208131400	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208131401	It is true that Mrs Liselott Blixt is now speaking freely, while I hear the rapporteur's reply to Mr Blixt's question. Flemming Møller Mortensen that the regions cannot do much, that they can hardly shake their ears and that they do not have much room for manoeuvre. Is the solution a nationalisation, or is it to give the regions freer hands and more room for manoeuvre to solve the local challenges that may exist in the individual regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208131428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208131429	After all, the regions can do many things; it is the individual politicians who find it difficult to see through how it is all screwed up. That is why it is not just about resources, but about how to structure it. And that's where you don't have those terms many times, so you can change any of it. A minister can, but the individual regional politician cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208131450	With this, we thank the rapporteur and move forward. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208131513	Thank you, President, and thank you to the authors. This discussion is always very important, because our health services are an incredibly important piece in running a welfare state, a welfare state where there must be free and equal access for everyone in our health services, a welfare state where health, when health is on the agenda and citizens are asked, usually comes out as the most important point for everyone. Yes, is it that there is free and equal access, a geographical coverage, a health service in which no citizen or patient can fail something wrong or wrong at a wrong time, a health service that provides real security and provides real security to the whole population, regardless of the place of residence, economy, education, not something that the outside world admires Denmark for having built up? I think that is what we, as Social Democrats, believe, and that is why it is an incredibly important point here to defend and develop further. I feel that all the discussion and the reason for asking the question here today is that some people are threatening the construction, stability, what we know, what we believe in, what works very well. I think it is very important to make that clear. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party states that health professionals are doing very well. I can only back that up. I think our patient organisations are doing a very good job, and I think our politicians at all four levels are doing a very good job in defending the social model and structure that is a distinctive feature of Denmark. We need security about welfare, and we have a very good healthcare system. I very much agree with the Minister when he says that it is, however, cheerfully happy when we are placed in a third place among the European countries, in terms of how our health services work and what it gives to citizens, and that is why I cannot understand the parties in this Parliament who think that we should have a different structure. It is the Danish People's Party, it is the Liberal Alliance, and it is the Conservative People's Party that has toned out for years that they would rather see the heel than the toe of the construction we have with the five regions. I don't understand. I fully agree that there are still battles to be taken out in the regions to make things even better, and I think that the goal should then be that Denmark can achieve further on the ladder from being the third best, where we have taken a tiger leap of six points compared to the countries. There's still a first place to go. I just think that you, who want to dismantle the regions and cannot even formulate what we should have instead, risk a huge loss of value for all citizens, and that is where I would say, as a social democrat, that I think it will be most damaging to those who are weakest in our society. We must, of course, have regions that meet objectives, with a very good discussion to the Folketing, we must have regions that are still financially supported, and one government after another has supported health care in one economic agreement and one financial law after another, because this is a priority area. We must, of course, have better governance, and it was a good thing for the Social Democratic Party that we had the 2-percent productivity requirement removed after we had a government that was pressed very much by a majority here in the Folketing. As Social Democrats, we want the regions, together with the municipalities, to have even more focus on prevention and disease reduction. Disease makes citizens unfree and reduces the quality of life. That is why we must continue to develop the regions and, of course, we must look at structures, but I do not understand why some people will look at structures without having thought about what alternative there is to the model we have today, those who are talking about further centralisation and giving all the power to a health minister who has enough to do and who should not then speculate about how ambulance preparedness should be in the Region of Zealand or in the Region of North Jutland at the specific level, and those who advocate further privatisation. I think there are good bars that I think there is something to build on, and I actually think we have a fantastic good starting point. I welcome this debate. There is just too little time on the platform when you have the floor. I have no more time, but I have to read out a proposal for adoption, a text which the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Alternative and the Radical Left are behind, and which reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises that the regions have made good efforts on several parameters in the field of health, including the collection of specialised hospital services, the establishment of a new hospital structure, compliance with budgets, increasing quality of treatment and historically low waiting times. The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark's health services were recently designated as the third best in Europe and that no comparable countries have an organisation of their health services that gives less geographical differences than the regions in Denmark provide. However, the Danish Parliament notes that there are too many geographical differences between the regions, including: in respect of the right of investigation and the treatment of cancer patients and people with mental disorders. The Danish Parliament therefore instructs the government to initiate a dialogue with the regions on a better and more uniform achievement of the national objectives of health care as agreed with KL and Danske Regions. In this context, the Danish Parliament meets the progress report on the national objectives and the reporting of the health care management review in the spring of 2018. Thank you. V 39).
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132146	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is also part of the further debate. There is one question for the rapporteur. This is from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132158	Thank you very much. I'm so nice that I do it so that Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen can get a little more time. Here we go, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen himself from North Jutland is one of the places in contact with doctors, specialists; there are long waiting times, etc. Many shortcomings can be listed. Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, that the Danish regions together have done enough to lift the regions that are having difficulty in relation to the geographical situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132229	In fact, I believe that Danske Regions has understood that we cannot live with a country with the inequality and diversity that exist. My motto in health policy and politics at all is that Denmark is simply too small for big differences. It is of course not unknown to the rapporteur that we have had many discussions about the Region of Zealand and the Region of North Jutland as the two absolutely smallest regions and the most vulnerable in terms of retention and recruitment. We usually have a very great deal of agreement that it is totally unrealistic to believe that we can get the two smallest regions to the same level as the other three without any particular effort being made. I think the regions have caught the ball. They have done so in relation to specialist appointments in hospitals. It is very good that we have the regions working in their platform, and then they have to answer to the government, to the Minister, who maintains them on what is, like, the contractual basis. Therefore, I believe that the construction of the five regions with local, close geographical knowledge, the close knowledge of the challenges of maintaining and recruiting health professionals is the best construction, because the geographical challenges and the fact that the outermost provinces always have the greatest challenges, not only are known from Denmark; it is known from all over the world when we go down in the individual nations' health care systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132402	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132404	Now Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen that he was happy because we have come up higher on the list as one of the world's best health care systems. It could have been the case that the others had only become worse. Is that what we have to measure ourselves on? In the Danish People's Party we want to measure what we do for our patients, how many people wait, how many people die before they receive treatment. It is not long ago that a study was carried out, which was also presented to us in our Committee on Health and Older People's Rights, which showed that on some parameters, on some diagnoses, we were all the way down to Uruguay or other countries and were bad. Is that what makes us think that we have a good health service and are proud of it? Because then you're on a list that makes you at the top. But if it turns out that it is because the others have done nothing, and it is they that have moved down, is it satisfactory?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132504	Thank you very much for the question. That's a good question. I wish that the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, as the second largest and largest party here in Denmark, could stand together on this important agenda. We can, of course, do so far in relation to setting targets. I just wish that we could do so in relation to the structure that we think is good but which, of course, needs to be further developed. But it must also be defended. I believe that it has damaged the reputation of our regions and also their capacity for action and their attraction as a place for people to be elected as politicians, because the risk of their abandonment has hung over their heads because Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen set up seven requirements, which were ultimate in order for them to survive and no other structure to be found. I want stability in this area. I would like to say to the rapporteur: no, we must measure up to real quality targets for citizens. Waiting lists are a very good target, but we also need to measure how happy they are for what they say when they are asked to do so. The local health care system is very large in the majority of cases. I will conclude by saying that Region Sjælland and Region Nordjylland take headlines; it overturns our regional TV 2 stations' programme in the evening if a children's psychiatrist is hired. For one child psychiatrist or adult psychiatrist, compared to where he is, the length of waiting time may be determined. That is not satisfactory. We have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132636	There will be plenty of opportunity for further clarification, because there are further questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132644	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. After all, the rapporteur is very pleased with the structure we have today, and we certainly have no doubt about that in the Danish People's Party when the rapporteur says whether we could work together on it. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he believes that there is a clear division of responsibilities with the structure we have. In other words, when the rapporteur has a problem and wants to go somewhere, the rapporteur has no doubt about where he should go. Does the rapporteur also think that responsibility should be taken where the rapporteur thinks it should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132723	As a starting point, I think that the division of responsibilities and tasks is very clear. It is also very clear that the five regions cannot collect taxes themselves. So it is also very clear what framework they have to act within. Am I satisfied with the division of responsibilities and tasks as it is? I would like to say that I would have liked to have had a better evaluation of the municipal reform. There I think we have failed politically; that is what the second, third and fourth governments have done. Because when you make such big changes, there may also be things that are inappropriate. I recognise that in the last financial law some things have been moved from municipalities to regions. That is very sensible, and that is the way we are going to structure this. That is why I would like the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party to be able to work together more closely to find out where there may be some things in the division of responsibilities and tasks that are not sensible, because it is just before that we can, at least as it stands now, almost have a majority to do things. I will reach out and say: let us try constructively to see where the Danish People's Party thinks there are some sore toes that can draw attention to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132838	Thank you, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132839	In the Danish People's Party we have the feeling, when we have consulted the Minister on some things that we do not think are right, that we get the indication that it is the responsibility of the regions, and they have to deal with that. For example, if there is an ambulance company in Southern Denmark going bankrupt, etc., it is the region's job to deal with it. Does the rapporteur not think that there is sometimes a lack of responsibility for something as important as health, so when you ask questions, you also get answers from where the responsibility lies?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208132920	Now it is not unknown to the rapporteur that I am also one of those who raise quite a lot of consultation issues, including on this subject, to changing ministers. That is our task, it is our duty here in the Folketing to do so. I have had situations where I have also thought that changing health ministers simply cut down and do not accept responsibility, but that is exactly what I do not think is the problem of the regions. I think that is the problem and disclaimer of changing health ministers. In fact, I think that the regions bear their responsibilities. Perhaps we could also have a better dialogue with the regions on the part of the Danish Parliament, on the part of the Health Committee. We do so once a year, when we meet and discuss important agendas. But I think that the dialogue could be better, and it could create an even greater understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133009	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133012	Thank you. The Minister said in his speech that the curves had been broken over the long waiting lists in the field of cancer, but unfortunately that is not the case in all areas. In December we had among other things: a consultation debate on hearing aid, and there is up to 2 years waiting time in that area. I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about this and how the Social Democrats will have these waiting lists set up. After all, we adopted a joint motion for a resolution, but we must also acknowledge that the rapporteur's government, it can be said, has helped us to have these long waiting lists today, because with L 59 the 7.000 that would have gone from private to public was not taken into account. So what will the Social Democrats do about that part?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133103	I would like to thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl very much and thank the Danish People's Party for asking me so many questions, because this really gives me the opportunity to deepen the Socialist position. And on the last question here, I have to say that economy matters. In other words, I have listened to the fact that Regional Council Presidents and Regional Council politicians from changing parties have said that they are indeed tense to some very narrow budgets in relation to the major tasks they have. And here all parties, including the Danish People's Party, must bear a responsibility for whether you give tax relief or spend the money on an improved health care. And there you have to feel your own conscience where you stand in that game. In any case, the position of the Socialist Group is quite clear. Then I would say to Mrs Karina Adsbøl that this hearing aid is also a place where the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party are in a joint fight, because it is clearly unfair. But here we also have to look at this and we have had a lot of discussions with the minister about the fact that once again there is only a great deal of geographical diversity. It's really hard to get those specialists. I see how the regions are now setting up clinics in the outermost corners of the regions and trying to make it attractive and create offers out there. We agree politically to make the best possible use of both private and public capacity.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133220	I understand that the rapporteur is very pleased with the speaking time. I am delighted if we keep to the speaking time, but now it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133228	I think it is a little interesting about the response to tax cuts, because now it was the case that in 2012 the then government introduced a significant tax reform, which specifically took away from transfer income and other things. And if you compare with the small tax agreement that has been concluded now, I think the director of the then government got $12,000. in tax relief, where the director currently receives only DKr 3,000. So if you look at that part, I don't think that argument holds up. I'll tell you what. However, as far as waiting lists are concerned, we have a common challenge in relation to hearing care, and that is why I would at least like to appeal to the Social Democrats to follow up on that part so that we can take action together. Two years is unacceptable, and we need to make that right.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133322	Thank you. On one point, I fully agree with Mrs Adsbøl: it was certainly a small tax agreement. That's right. So I would say about waiting lists that I have now been through the latest inventory of waiting lists that have come from the five regions, where you see both the national indicator and then you see all five regions. And I have noticed both what the Minister of Health has said and what was actually in the text of the adoption which was read by Mrs Liselott Blixt, namely that we have historically low waiting times in Denmark. It's a fact, but there are some therapy areas, some clinical areas, rheumatology, the hearing area and others, where the lack of doctors is just great, and it's actually all over the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133403	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133405	Thank you. I listened with interest to the text adopted by the rapporteur, and I would just like to say that I share the enthusiasm for the Danish health service, which I understand both the Social Democracy, the SF, the Radical Left and the Alternative express in their proposals for adoption. The rapporteur says that the economy matters. We fully share that point of departure in the Left too. That is why we have raised the health service by 4.4 billion. kr., for it matters how many funds are available. Yesterday I had the pleasure of attending a debate in which the Socialist rapporteur took part. It was about the pre-hospital work in the Region of Zealand, which the DF's rapporteur also mentioned here. Region Nordjylland and Region Sjælland are particularly challenged. I also heard the rapporteur mention yesterday in connection with the pre-hospital efforts that cost what it would cost, so the possibilities must be raised so that the pre-hospital efforts in the Region of Zealand are leveled. And I would just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur how much one is willing to invest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133518	It was a really fine debate we had yesterday about the heart area, both the acute part and the rehabilitation, an area which is also completely escaping from what the Minister for Health has said. This is really one of the areas where the curves have just gone the right way. However, as the DF's rapporteur says, there are some regional differences that really can be taken and felt. And these are the ones we must tackle together; that is the challenge. Yesterday I stood and said quite bumpy that the pre-hospital preparedness, which provides real security and security for citizens, wherever you live in Denmark, must be strong, and we are willing to invest in that. We Social Democrats have supported earmarked funds in this area many times. Other parties have done so, and why? Because this is real security, it's real security. And I would like to be bump-free here on the platform too and say that after the municipal reform it was as if the Region of Zealand was born wrong. I've said it many times. I have also said to the proposers that we in the Social Democratic Party are actually willing to try to see whether there are any special things we can do for the Region of Zealand, so that the Region of Zealand can come up with the other four regions more quickly. The region I come from, which is the smallest, is vulnerable in some respects, but in other respects it is not vulnerable because we have a medical school. We have a university hospital, and it's right in the middle of the region. All 11 municipalities support that construction. Region Sjælland is challenged. So the answer to the Left rapporteur is: I do not put the money on here, but take it from the Left and from the Government as a starting point for it to be an area of priority. And here we want to be involved in discussing what we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133700	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133702	At least that was an honest statement, because the Socialist rapporteur does not put any money on it. If the Socialist rapporteur were to lift that, what would be the economic priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133718	But Mrs Jane Heitmann knows that I cannot stand here as a health rapporteur and say that. However, as far as the pre-hospital approach is concerned, my mandate goes all the way down to something as concrete as saying how to set up the structure of emergency medical vehicles, i.e. emergency vehicles with a doctor who can get out quickly if it is a heart patient or a trauma or other life-threatening. That would provide real security and security, and that would be a prime competence right away. We have said that we want to help look at it and make demands. It may be a mileage requirement in relation to an emergency hospital, so we have a really high peak competence to offer the citizens who live the furthest away from an emergency hospital and so we can be quick forward if the damage occurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133805	Then the questions to Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen up. Flemming Møller Mortensen That's too bad, but thank you, President. It was a pleasure). That's good. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208133820	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate on the health care of the regions. We're living in a time of wrestling. This means that we question the established and the way we have done things so far, just think of Brexit or the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States. At home, too, we question the way we have done things so far. It can be healthy sometimes to shake the bag and think out of the box or just wonder if you could do things smarter, more efficient or more conveniently. This also applies to health, and we are shaking the bag. Just think of the suspension by the Minister for Health of the two-percent requirement and the ongoing review of the whole of health management and, above all, of our common model of risk-based supervision, and soon we are setting a new direction for the close and coherent health care system. These are four examples of how we have asked ourselves whether we can do things better and ensure a better and more coherent everyday life for tomorrow's patients and staff. For us in the Left, it is crucial that we are constantly keen to get the most health for money. Whether it is one structure or another is not necessarily crucial, but whatever we choose is the highest priority for us in the Left, that we put the patient first, because whether we are talking about treatment times or about geographical and social inequalities in health, it is the patient's perspective that we in the Left are based on. The familiar structure we have in Denmark, where state, municipalities and regions in various ways solve prevention and treatment tasks, is at once an incredibly simple yet complex structure. All too often we experience patients falling between two chairs and that one hand does not know what the other does. We cannot be aware of this because it is not to have a look for the patient. Our five regions are at the heart of the task of our health services. Back in 2015, we launched in the Left seven pointers for the regions. The point marks were launched in the run-up to the parliamentary elections. We followed them up after the elections by translating them into eight national targets that were introduced in 2016. And our clear objective is that health care actors work in one direction and that with the results of the objectives, we will be able to identify challenges much more precisely. The objectives must contribute to the work of the well-known actors on the basis of a common objective, from hospitals and municipalities to general practitioners. The national targets have been well accepted. The first annual progress report for 2017 shows that there is progress on two thirds of the points measured. And what is at least equally important is that the report shows that national objectives are being used in day-to-day management. In several places the goals are locally anchored, completely out in hospital wards and in the specific offers you have in the municipalities. I dare call that a success. Does that mean everything's okay? No, because we still face challenges in the Danish healthcare system. I am offended when I read that cancer patients in the Capital Region are being pickled and I am stunned that it has been necessary for the Minister of Health to introduce stricter reporting requirements. I am appalled when I read that children and young people on average have to wait 8 months in the Region of North Jutland to get to a psychiatrist, while for children and young people in the Region of Southern Denmark it is only 2 months. Both examples tell me that in the regions, as far as geographical inequality is concerned, there is still work to be done. And there must be no regional differences so that it is really the postal code that governs patients' treatment offers. Whether you live at Frederiksberg or in Faaborg-Midtfyn, you should expect the same treatment and treatment and investigation damage. In the Left, we have an ambition for a world-class health service, and I was really pleased when I read the other day that we are in a European third place, only surpassed by the health services in the Netherlands and Switzerland. But we have also invested massively in Danes health care. Since the 2015 elections, we have raised health care by 4.4 billion. kr. extra. It's historic, and it's significant. It is with a new cancer plan IV, a birth package, an action plan for the elderly medical patient, new patient rights and a guarantee for the Danish patients to mention just a few of the initiatives we have launched. I have no doubt that we are well on our way. Now the task for the regions is to hold on to the good tactics and lift up the final piece, so that we also get rid of, among other things. the geographical inequality. I mentioned at the outset that we are living in a time of wrestling. This does not mean that we have to break with everything, but it means that we must constantly focus on new challenges and be willing to find new solutions where we continue to focus on what gives value to the patient. The Left can support the proposal for adoption which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party read out. And I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208134333	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208134337	Thank you very much. Thank you to the rapporteur. I am very pleased that the rapporteur, on behalf of the Left, says that the regions are well on their way and that they have to lift up the final piece, because it is in my ears other tones that I hear from the Left than when I heard Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen made the ultimate demands that had to be met and assessed during this parliamentary term, otherwise something else would be replaced by the regions. So my first question is: is it the case that the threat previously addressed by the Left is gone in relation to the fact that the structure is not intended to be replaced by anything else? My second question concerns what the rapporteur says about geographical inequality. Can I not get the rapporteur to recognise that there are different starting points in the five regions as well? With regard to all the talk we have had about medical coverage, would it not be as easy for us to get doctors to reduce themselves in all five regions, as is the case in the two largest regions, for example, to be many challenges?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208134443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208134444	Thank you. I am actually sorry that the rapporteur is using the word threat here. In fact, I think that is a rather sad word in an otherwise good debate. What we in the Left have allowed ourselves to do in relation to the regions is to make demands, and we have done so on behalf of patients. We have demanded that we want world-class health care. We want patients to be treated on time, to be informed, to overcome regional differences, to mention just a few examples. I think it is perfectly legitimate to allow ourselves to make demands on the main player in the Danish health service, namely the regions. This is about the patient, and it's about seeing things from the patient's perspective. I welcome the fact that, with the latest reporting, we can see that the regions have actually taken up two thirds of the measuring points. It is against this background that I would like to say that we are going the right way, but that we are still missing the last small piece. And whatever structure there is, we in the Left will never stop making demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208134612	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208134613	I am very pleased that the rapporteur feels pissed that I used the word threat, because now I have to read out what the Left wrote in June 2015: "Therefore, the regions are now given one more chance to prove that they are able to raise the quality of our healthcare to a new level. That's one quote. The second quote is: If, after this parliamentary term, the regions are unable to raise the quality of Danish health care to a new level of world class, then others will have to take on that task. If it is not to be interpreted as a knife for the throat, and if not a knife for the throat is a threat to life, then I simply do not know how to interpret rhetoric, but the Left apparently interprets it quite differently than we do in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208134658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208134659	I think that was perhaps more a comment from the Socialist rapporteur. I would still like to say that we have made demands on the regions, and we have done so, among other things. in relation to overcrowding, treatment, cancer treatment, patient-responsible doctors, focus on dementia, chronic diseases I don't have to read it all out. But for us in the Left, it is important and crucial that we dare to make demands on each other. After all, this is about patients being taken care of, and yes, it is just as the rapporteur says: the Left has an ambition that we should have a world-class healthcare system, and we only get that if we are brave and have the courage to take the lead and make demands on the main health actors.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208134747	Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208134750	Thank you very much. One of the things we talk a lot about and all ministers have spoken about in my time, at least, is equality in health, which then has to do that regardless of the postal code you have, you should be able to get the same treatment. We have five regions, and now I am sticking to the region we are in right now, the Capital Region, which many times does some other things that have implications for users. I can only mention 1813. I am thinking: is this the same offer being made to the citizens of the Capital Region as to the citizens of the other regions? We can mention the implementation of a health platform, which started by firing medical secretaries, so that doctors should have more work and look at fewer patients, and so the region must also use even more doctors to the detriment of some of the other regions that are waiting. It is just two of the great things that have been recently that make there an incredibly large distortion and difference between what is offered in the regions. Is it the geographical similarity that we should have, or does the rapporteur not think that these are just some of the points that should be addressed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208134914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208134916	We have municipal autonomy in Denmark. We'll protect that in the Left. The regions, almost like the municipalities, have the possibility of making a small comparison, even to a large extent, of organising interventions, taking initiatives which are not necessarily part of a national initiative. This is the beauty of the way we have organised both municipalities and regions, but at the same time it is also the Achilles heel. When the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party mentions precisely the Health Platform and 1813, I think it is obvious to everyone that there are challenges. After all, we have repeatedly addressed the challenges of the leadership of the Capital Region, including the Left, in other words that it is the region's President who must take the lead, take responsibility and, of course, also ensure that the challenges that exist in the region are resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208135020	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208135022	I could be led to believe that the rapporteur thought that it is quite all right to have these differences, because then we will never get the same thing, and then it is untrue if you say that you want equality wherever you live in Denmark. In the Danish People's Party we mean it. That is also why we say that we believe that we should have uniformity in Denmark wherever we live. When you look down over Denmark, you have to look at the whole of Denmark and make sure that you lay down hospitals and doctors, so it is important for the individual that you can work across and you ensure a good distribution. That is probably what we need, i.e. that Danske Regions take that responsibility and ensure that the five regions live up to it. It would have been glorious if the rapporteur thought it too, because then there was more pressure on them, but if the position of the Left is that the regions should just be allowed to go alone and take all the doctors they want and take their way of doing things, that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208135121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208135123	I understand that, because it is tempting to say that a one-tier state structure would solve all problems. I just don't think that's the way it is in the real world. I think it is complete, as I said, that there are advantages in the regions themselves taking initiatives, but at the same time it is also an Achilles heel. What is important to me is precisely that we take responsibility for ourselves in the regions as it is, for example. in relation to 1813 and the Health Platform, and will resolve the obvious challenges that there are and have been.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208135201	We thank Mrs Jane Heitmann and move on to Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208135208	Thank you. For the Enhedslisten and for me, it is absolutely crucial that we have democratic and locally anchored health management. We do not believe that our health services should be left alone to the state or to designated boards of professionals, on whom the people have not voted and have no influence. There are important geographical considerations to consider in relation to the planning of our health services, and it is important that there is local and regional knowledge of those decisions. And then it is very important that there is a democratic mandate. As one of the previous rapporteurs said quite rightly, health is, over and over again, the area in which citizens in this country respond to them most strongly when it comes to politics. So it would be completely crazy not to have a democratic influence on those who are planning our health care. Basically, the discussion we have here today is about whether we believe that such centralisation will improve, or whether it is quite another thing we need to do to ensure better health care. For it is clear that the easiest thing in the world is to point out that there are problems in our healthcare system. Yeah, there is, and we need to get better. There are challenges with inequality, both geographically and to a large extent socially. There are plenty of areas that we are not lifting well enough today. So the question is, what do we do about it? There has been a centralisation of our health services and the decisions that are being taken about it. There has been a concentration of power and, in many respects, decisions relating to everyday life in hospitals are also in fact taken in the departments far away from those who practice and the citizens it affects. So there is no doubt that there is also a great deal to be done in terms of democracy. We were not involved in inventing the construction we have around the regions today. As you know, it was the blue side of the Folketing that did it. And we criticized at that time the construction of a structure with far-off limited influence. As you know, the regions do not have the opportunity to influence the revenue they have themselves, for example. By printing taxes. They are subject to strict government control, and they have less opportunities than the municipalities have, even than the former counties had, to take initiatives themselves. So we would like the regions to have a greater degree of influence and that influence matched the expectations of the regions. I think it is quite crazy, for example, that we have an installation ceiling which is so tight that we see time and again that the regions are allowed to sit with large cash boxes which they are not allowed to use even if they actually wanted to build kitchens on some of the new super hospitals or otherwise to expand. But the state is very strict in its management of how to spend the money that you actually have in the regions. On the whole, I think that the regions, along the road, along with the health professionals, have taken up the tasks assigned to them. What has been the headlines for the work of the regions has been a major centralisation and specialisation of our health services, a focus on productivity, shorter waiting lists and tight budget management. Some of these things seem to me to have been very sensible, while there are other areas where we think things have gone too far. This is true, for example. the one-sided focus on productivity and activity, which is also in areas where we believe that the centralisation of our health care has gone far too far. This is true, for example. in the field of food and in the organisation of our acute area, where I think there is a lack of closeness. And then we have a big problem. Fortunately, we agree that the close health care system has not followed at all, since there has been such a violent centralisation of our hospitals. It is not sufficiently developed at all, so we are lagging behind there. We have some major health problems. This is true, for example. the medical area that is heavily strained. It is well known to all of us that, unfortunately, it is not unusual for older people to be admitted to the corridors. We have a bad working environment in some parts of our healthcare system. And we have a psychiatry that is heavily under-priority. There is great inequality in health, poor coherence, lack of prevention of health promotion... you all know them. It seems to me that these problems represent several things, but it is not a question of the structure of the regions, and that is the essential thing in this context. I really think that this is an expression of complex issues which are difficult to deal with, but it is also an expression of what has been the main focus, namely some other areas. It has been productivity, it has been the cancer sector and it has been operations that have been the main focus, while some of the other areas have been given lower priority. I really think it might have been very interesting to discuss what we all know is going to happen this spring, namely a new management of the regions and hospitals. So far it is a discussion that is wrapped in some enclosed spaces where the Folketing does not know what is going on. Analyses are being carried out that we have no knowledge of. I think it would be quite obvious that we had a discussion here. I would just like to finish by saying that what I think is really important when we discuss future management of hospitals is that we control less. I think that the state is being over-ruled and the discussion about the requirement of productivity is mainly about this, in other words, taking away the possibility that the regions themselves could have an influence on the organisation in this area. Therefore, I will conclude by making the following proposals for adoption on behalf of EL, which are about something that could be a direction for how we should manage in the future: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises that the regions have delivered on several parameters the health efforts that have been imposed on them, including the collection of specialised hospital services, the establishment of a new hospital structure, compliance with budgets, increasing quality of treatment and historically low waiting times. The Danish Parliament notes that the economic governance of the hospital area, which has been carried out by successive governments, has contributed to a lack of resources, so for example. patients are hospitalized in the corridors and the working environment in many hospitals are burdened. Therefore, the government is required to ensure that a new management model at hospitals gives more room for manoeuvre to the regions. Hospitals should not be subject to new productivity or efficiency requirements from the State. Instead, it must be ensured that the regions have an economic framework for hospitals, which makes it possible to keep up with demographic developments and new treatment options. In addition, the government must support the regions to a greater extent in the field of prevention and health promotion. • V 40).
ParlaMint-DK_20180208135918	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is also part of the debate. There are no brief comments, so we move on. This is Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208135930	Thank you. I will then continue my line of brief, clear and honest messages for the rest of the day. So I would like to start by saying that in the Liberal Alliance we have long believed that the regions should be closed down. Although, fortunately, there have been several good results and the health professionals are making a great deal of effort, we believe that a number of bad decisions have been taken and we believe that the regions are not adding the value that one would like to see. We believe that the basic problem is that at Christiansborg we are completely dictating the economy of the regions, while some other politicians have to take responsibility for the execution. This creates a situation where the ball is placed between two chairs, where the regions can complain at any time that they are not getting enough money, regardless of what the economy actually looks like and where we can criticise a number of operational decisions in here. But in the end it must be about what is actually being delivered. Is the operation effective enough? Is the quality high enough? Are the conditions for patients and staff good enough and can we have geographical equality in health care? These conditions must, of course, be thoroughly evaluated before a very far-reaching decision is taken on the organisation of the Danish health service. Our attitude is that the problems are too great to be solved in the present form of organisation. But now that a number of objectives have been set, we should look at how far the regions have actually come, and if we are completely wrong, it is only gratifying. The Liberal Alliance supports the text read by Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208140129	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208140134	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. However, it was the most exciting little lobe that came here at the very end, where the rapporteur says: if the Liberal Alliance is completely wrong. I'll carry it with me. The rapporteur says: yes, clearly, lay down the Danish Regions, which have been made bad decisions in Danske Regions. There I would like to hear: What bad decisions have Danske Regionser made? Secondly, I would like to know what value the rapporteur is talking about when the rapporteur says that Danske Regioner has not added the desired value.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208140215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208140218	First of all, I can give two good examples of bad decisions by the Capital Region, which are called 1813 and the Health Platform. As far as value is concerned, yes, the Left has set seven targets for health care, which I agree with. There are few of the objectives that have been achieved so far. We still have problems with waiting for diagnosis and treatment. We still have great problems with equality in health care. We still have problems with cancer patients who have to be treated on time. We still have problems with overcrowding, which should be reduced. Then patients responsible doctors have been introduced. Yes, check. And then it says here: greater focus on dementia and chronic diseases. More attention has also been paid to this. Perhaps you could still ask where the results of this are. So there are actually plenty of examples that there are values that have not been added to the extent that we would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208140324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208140329	Thank you. It's a clear speech. Can the Minister confirm... May-Britt Kattrup I am only rapporteur. ) That is how it is to be a member of a government party that is not very different. It is very easy for the rapporteur to say that the Capital Region, compared with 1813 and the Health Platform, has made mistakes, but can the rapporteur not confirm that a very broad political majority has taken these innovative, developing new initiatives, and is it not also one of the demands of the regions? Is it not also one of the objectives that we should constantly drive forward? Can the rapporteur also confirm that waiting times and overcrowding are linked both to the economy made available and to the extent that it is possible to recruit and maintain health professionals? I think that we have had a very broad debate here today, which has just illustrated that the cat park me is the challenges facing the regions, and that is very much what gives rise to geographical inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208140438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208140441	I can start by saying, as I also said in my speech, that fortunately there have been good results out there, and we recognise that and that health professionals out there are making a huge effort. But exactly the problems, as Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen addresses precisely the points I made in my rapporteur's speech, which are the problem with this construction, namely that we in here from Christiansborg decide the financial framework. They are agreed with the regions, but they are dictated from in here. So we say that there is so much money, and it is some other politicians who have to implement the results. That is the combination: we can always sit in here and say that there is enough money, and they can always sit out there and say that there is not enough money, and we can always complain that the results are not being implemented well enough because that construction is difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208140535	With that, we thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208140550	Thank you. The alternative rapporteur, Pernille Schnoor, has been prevented, so she has asked me to read out the following speech: thank you to the Danish People's Party for debating the issue of health care for the regions. Some of the things that have been said over the last few years have been about the challenges facing the regions. I quote: The area has not improved and is one of the areas more challenged after regionalisation, as tasks such as housing, district psychiatry, etc. have ended up in municipalities where they might not have ended up. Better coherence has not been created. Quote out. Health economist Jakob Kjeldberg said so in November 2017. Another leading health economist, Jes Søgaard, has quoted: Psychiatry has become less priority than somatics, we can see. When we look at the consumption of health crowns in patient groups, there has actually been a decrease in psychiatry. Quote out. There is no doubt that we have challenges in the regions, even when it comes to the use of coercion in psychiatry, where it is not going quite as fast as expected to reduce its use. At the same time, there are too many regional differences. Having said that, however, we believe that, overall, the regions are doing a good job, not least in view of the 2-percent efficiency requirements imposed on them for a number of years. On several parameters they have provided a good effort, including the collection of specialised hospital functions, the establishment of a new hospital structure, compliance with budgets, increasing treatment quality and historically low waiting times. The latest report from December 2017 shows that health care continues the positive development with progress of 19 out of 31 indicators. The regions are an important democratic body. We believe that it makes sense for decisions to be taken as close as possible to the citizens. The Regional Councils have local knowledge which allows solutions to be adapted to local conditions. The alternative, like professionals and other health professionals, does not believe that a state governance model will make it significantly better. It will be a violent centralisation which can end up with an excessively rigid system. British health care has major problems with, among other things: compliance with the budgets. The Norwegian spends significantly more money than Denmark on health, and in addition, central governance has resulted in huge bureaucracy, because attempts at uniform quality and service have given a huge amount of resource-intensive retail regulation. We have a job to do to get the regions to know what their job is. Unfortunately, many Danes do not know what the regions are doing, and this is probably partly because the media do not find it very interesting and mainly write negative stories. So, overall, we're satisfied. The regions are doing a huge job and we are aware that there are challenges that we need to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208140851	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the Radical Left, and the radical that I see in the Chamber is Mr. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208140901	Yes, and it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen who is usually the rapporteur, but I shall read out our position in her absence. In the Radical Left, we welcome the regions. We believe it is good and healthy to have an elected body to manage health care, which is also locally anchored. We would also like to give recognition to the regions in a wide range of areas where they have done a good job: the waiting time has fallen; more patients feel involved in their course of treatment; more survive cancer than before. We would also like to remind you that we are in the process of one of the greatest changes in health care ever. Here from Christiansborg we are constantly demanding new changes: health guarantees, investigation guarantees, new cancer packages, new cancer plans, doctors in charge of treatment, a new plan for a coherent healthcare system and everything else. The regions must have time to put this into practice. Of course, there are also challenges. Some patients have longer and complex courses of treatment and, unfortunately, sometimes experience challenges in relation to the transition from the region to the municipality and return. Regions and municipalities must be our common ambition to create a health service that is perceived coherently for each individual. Better treatment and health for patients are the focus of all parties, and in the Radical Left we believe that at this stage the regions are the best guarantor of ensuring the solution to the problem of health. The regions have a great responsibility. Their responsibility is to provide people with world-class health care, and that is what they need to spend their time on, and not to use their energies to justify their existence. We can, of course, support the proposal for adoption which we are helping to present and which the Social Democrat rapporteur read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208141121	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208141129	Thank you very much. I will then start by confirming that the SF also supports the proposal for adoption put forward by the Socialist rapporteur. From the SF's point of view, there is no doubt that the regions have solved even very large and challenging tasks under very difficult conditions and over a very short period of time. We have welcomed the fact that there was finally support for removing the 2-percent productivity requirement, but we are also aware that financial compensation has still not been taken into account when, for example, regions are under pressure from both new treatments and new medicines, but also from more elderly people and more children. Although we are a small country, there are nevertheless great differences between different parts of the country, which also require different efforts from one end of the country to the next. Special problems of abuse in one part of the country require, for example, a special effort which does not necessarily have to be undertaken in other parts of the country. Local democracy is therefore still important for equality in health, while the government and the Folketing, in turn, are responsible for ensuring the necessary framework. We are now writing February 2018, and I would particularly like to highlight the last sentence of the proposal for adoption: In this context, the Parliament meets the progress report on the national objectives and the reporting of the health care management review in spring 2018. In fact, I hope that both of them will be able to give rise to a qualified debate on how, in future, we will also ensure the best conditions for the regions to assume responsibility for a good and much like better health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208141314	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. And then we don't have any more in that row. In fact, we have reached the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208141334	Thank you for your comments on the debate. I started, of course, by reviewing the government's position in this area, and I will not repeat it. I am actually just called to say that I think it is quite symptomatic of the debate that has been that there is a tendency in certain parties, like saying that the structure as it is today is perfect and that we should not question it at all. If you do, it is because you like to re-enact the entire Danish healthcare system and then doubt the treatment and the strong Danish health care system we have. I just have to say that I think that is a strange approach to take. I mean, my approach as Minister of Health is, in fact, that we should do the best health care for patients. We need to ensure proper conditions for our healthcare staff. And whether it's called counties, it's called regions, or whether it's called a steering mechanism, which relates to the 2-percent requirement, which we have now suspended with the Danish People's Party; whether it's the new management system that we're working on and that we're developing and that there's also input from many good and qualified sides; whether it's professional organisations or it's actors who sit and do analyses that can be used in the work, then we must always be critical about structure and systems. We have to put the citizen, the patient, before the system. We must then dare to question those places where the quality of our health services is not high enough. We must then dare to say, as health politicians, that the geographical inequality that exists will not be accepted and that, of course, we will also be able to follow it up politically in relation to initiatives we take and in terms of governance, if we are not satisfied with the results that are being delivered. This is certainly the approach of the government, and this is also the approach we have when we are going to start negotiations with the regions on a new management of the health service and also a dialogue with the parties of the Danish Parliament, not least the Danish People's Party, as a result of the agreement we made in the autumn, where we are going to look at how to ensure an even better Danish health service • a health service that is there for patients and that ensures proper working conditions for our employees. Then I would just like to say thank you for the debate. In fact, I think it has been quite clear that there are different views on how much patience and acceptance we should have from the fact that the results that patients can expect from our health services are not being delivered. Perhaps that is where there are some differences, compared with just how much one has to say that it is because we have regions or we have a decentralised responsibility that the citizens of one region or another region have to accept less than one should in other regions. I think we should have ambitions for our health services, and I think we should have a clear ambition to overcome the geographical inequality we see in health.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208141632	Thank you very much, Minister. There are a number of brief comments, the first is from Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208141641	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, the Social Democrats also have ambitions for health care, and we also agree with what the Minister says, namely that we must, of course, always have a critical approach to structure and system. I have just said that we really want to help defend what is very good. And the way we best defend it is by constantly evaluating and making adjustments where the need is. Let's get together. I was just given the opportunity to ventilate it a little earlier in the day, but the Prime Minister was out in connection with the election campaign in 2015 to say that there were these things that had to be fulfilled if otherwise we had to stick to the structure. Now the Minister says that the seven points made by the Left at the time have been replaced by eight national objectives, which are due to the fact that the Social Democratic Party took the initiative to remove the Danish quality model, so that something else should be replaced. Here too, the Social Democrats and the Left have had some fine course like those who would take responsibility for our country and lead a government. My question to the Minister is that the Minister's party colleague, Mr. Carl Holst, here 3 months ago was out to say that there are no current considerations about doing anything other than the five regions. Is the position of the Left and the Government expressed here? For then it is a change from what has also been the reason why the Danish People's Party has tabled this question debate based on precisely the seven points to which I refer here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208141814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208141817	After all, the rapporteur himself has stood up here and said so, and other rapporteurs have confirmed it. So it is no secret that on a number of points the Left has a different attitude to the survival of the regions than the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party. That is also what was expressed when the current Prime Minister formulated the seven demands in which we said that we would not preserve the regions at all costs. It depends on whether they can deliver results for patients. We set out the seven requirements, which are now reworded to the eight national targets with the sub-indicators, where we can see that, fortunately, things are progressing on some points, but where developments on some of the other points are also very slow. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentions psychiatry as one of the points where development is needed. I mentioned that myself in my opening speech. So there must be better results on a number of points, and that is the debate that we must take. In the context of the control review that we have, we have made it clear that we must look for where it is that the control does not work today. Why have the regions not adequately lifted population responsibilities, ensured proper coherence in treatment, priority given to prevention and action for patients? And why is it necessary to provide a rehabilitation guarantee to ensure that patients receive the rehabilitation they are entitled to and entitled to and that they have standing in a rehabilitation plan when they are discharged? These are some of the places where we, as a government and together with the Danish People's Party, have chosen to say that we cannot just sit and wait because patients suffer every day. That is why we expect more, and that is why we fight every day to develop our healthcare to become even stronger and even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208141947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208141950	I am actually very pleased with the answer given by the Minister in relation to the position of the Left. I would like to acknowledge that. I think that I can give some peace out there, and I think that both staff and patient organisations need that very much, so please let the Left stay in the government as long as we have a bourgeois government. I have a few questions for the Minister because the Minister addresses a few challenges. The Minister says that more prevention should have been done; the Minister says that something better and more needs to be done in relation to rehabilitation. That is what the Minister said in his first speech. As far as I am concerned, the primary prevention task lies in the municipalities. In my view, the problem lies in the fact that, as the Minister says, rehabilitation plans are being made, but that they are not being followed up in the municipalities. It is also to me a primary municipal problem. So is it not a few examples that the Minister is pulling up, which in itself is not really the major regional task, but that is what we are working on and which makes it a huge challenge to establish coherence between regional and municipal? From my point of view, these are a couple of very good examples of how it is the municipal task solution and the increase in municipal responsibilities that, at least on these points, are weaker than the regional one. Does the Minister agree or does he not agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142103	I also think that there are regional weaknesses. I have to say that. I also think that in my opening remarks I went through a number of areas where we see unacceptable geographical inequality. It is true that municipalities also have to shoulder a greater share of the responsibility. This is also what is apparent from the proposal that you are entitled to receive from the government back in December. Now the Danish Health Authority has also been set in motion to draw up the close quality plan, which is really the thesis plan for the municipalities, and which will ensure that we get the situation we have today, where the postal number sometimes determines whether you get one or the other type of treatment and offer, so that we have a greater geographical uniformity in the area. This is also true in the area of rehabilitation, where we now have to deal legally with rights in this area. So it is a question of coherence, but it is also a question of delivering everywhere and that the regions must live up to their responsibilities as a population.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142152	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142156	Thank you. After all, there is a governance review under way, and the government has agreed with Danske Regions that you should look at what should be the principles of future economic governance. The Minister said that there are many people involved in this work and that there are consultants working on it. I have such a feeling that it is probably the Folketing that is least involved and knows at least what is going on in this area. That is why my question to the Minister is: Does the Minister intend to involve the Folketing in the discussions on how to manage the hospitals in the future? This will, of course, be very, very important for the health services of the future and especially for hospitals. That is why, of course, I think it is quite appropriate to involve the Folketing broadly in such a discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142249	We have made an agreement with the Danish People's Party back in the autumn, as we also made a political decision to suspend the 2-percent requirement. There we made a political agreement paper, which also draws some lines of direction for what a future governance model should be able to do. It puts the patient more at the centre and also focuses on what kind of working conditions are for the employees and focuses more on quality than activity. For that is where we have seen the 2-percent requirement being effective in getting rid of the waiting lists, which were massive in the start-00s. But it has also survived its time in many ways, and we now need to create a greater proximity. We are going to have a discussion with the Danish People's Party as a party to the agreement, and we are going to have a discussion with the regions in the economic negotiations, just as it is in the negotiating model that is. There are also elements about which there will be a dialogue with the parties of the Folketing. However, there is often, as in the case of agreements, a different involvement of the parties to the agreement from that of the other parties. I actually think this is something that calls for responsibility to be taken at times, because this also means that we are allowed more into decision-making processes and information than we may be doing if we as a party do not take responsibility and are not part of an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142401	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142404	The last thing I thought was really lame. Because the truth is that the minister knows that there was no possibility of becoming part of that agreement. I believe that there are a great many parties here in the Folketing who would like to be part of an agreement to abolish the productivity requirement. After all, we have meant it considerably longer than the Minister himself and have been pressing for a long time. So if you have to stand and say something like that about the fact that you do not want to take responsibility for an agreement, then there has to be some kind of reality behind it, at least. As I hear the Minister answer: No, it is not intended to involve the parties of the Folketing broadly in discussions in the future. I think that's too bad. As I said, it is going to be very, very crucial for how the governance of the future should be, and I think it is a pity if one is based on the narrowest possible constellation in the Folketing. So if the Minister thinks that the phrase to take responsibility, then one can simply open up the way for other parties to accede to that agreement and thus also enter into the discussions that then need to be forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142505	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142508	That's not what I said. I just said that it is also the responsibility of the parties that take responsibility to engage in more intensive discussions in some areas. This applies both to the Finance Act, which then translates the money into, for example. the health issue we will be making this spring, where we have set aside 845 million in the Finance Act together with the Danish People's Party. kr. to improve the close and coherent health care system and precisely strengthen the efforts that are both in the municipalities, but also in the regions and in general practice. It is about helping to ensure that we ensure much more closeness in the treatment of people, so that not so many people experience that they have to drive into a specialised health care system. It goes without saying that the money that we have set aside in the Finance Act together with the Danish People's Party means that there will be a closer dialogue with the contracting party that has helped to allocate the money. This does not mean that there will also be no discussion with the broad parliament. In other words, we will have to take those negotiations, so I do not really think there is anything wrong with saying that when parties take responsibility, it also gives another opportunity to influence the coinage afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142607	Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142610	Thank you very much. One of the things that worries the Danish People's Party and myself is these differences, differences between the regions, the geographical ones, in relation to equality in health, social health, and everything that just rolls. We've been talking about this for so many years. We are now trying to push out some state jobs, perhaps not quite where we want them, but we can also see that more citizens are moving from the big cities to the countryside because they are practically being pushed out there. The municipalities tell us that now we can buy a cheap accommodation on Lolland, so there will be more and more of them here, who may be most ill, who are on social income, to those areas where there are the least doctors, far to the hospitals and not the right help that they need. I would like to ask the Minister: was it not precisely there that the Danish Regions should have lifted and ensured that they had this uniformity or that they helped each other something more rather than just thinking about themselves, keeping doctors, using them for many other things than what they might have competence for?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142725	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142727	Yes, in a number of areas I agree with the rapporteur both in relation to the need for a better balance for Denmark, as we have done from day one, both as a Left Government and also as a three-clover government, to support both the relocation of state jobs, but also, of course, the agreement we have made on better medical coverage, which must also take account of geographical differences. There I agree with the rapporteur that on some points we would like to see stronger cooperation between the regions. It could be on medical coverage, where they have made an agreement, but where, in a number of areas, we would have liked even greater solidarity. As regards the Capital Region and the Region of Zealand and the proximity between them, it could also help to support that some of the specialists in the metropolitan area could help to meet some of the challenges we face in the health services in the Region of Zealand, where there may be less than 1 hour commuting time. It would be wonderful if we could see agreements that are binding across the regions or in other areas. Now we can take the stricter reporting obligation, which the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, where I think it is paradoxical that when we look at patients who are self-elected for too long, 36 out of 49 are from the Capital Region. Why don't you do more to tell the patients: Now we must help you to our good colleagues in Aalborg, Odense or Skejby, so that within our time-critical cancers you get a treatment on time? That is where I would like a much stronger cooperation in the small country, after all, we are all equal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142856	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142858	But I am thinking: is it not a pity that you are sitting as Minister for Health and not being able to pull the strings you want, because there are some regions with which you have to agree and which do not do what you say to them anyway? I think it must be. I am also thinking when there are other rapporteurs who talk about what to do and the minister is so close, and it is complicated: is it worse than being Secretary of Defense and having direct contact with the defence? Or there may be other ministerial areas where you are very close to what you decide and what you are responsible for. I think it is a sacred place as Minister of Health because you are untouchable, because you can always blame the region. I am thinking here, too, of whether the Minister thinks that it is satisfactory in the Capital Region, where the fight against cancer goes out and says that we are ten years back in time when we look at waiting lists and there are people dying on waiting lists. That must be worrying for a minister of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208142959	There is no doubt that the figures and dive we saw in the second quarter were worrying. That is also why I immediately launched a series of initiatives with a stricter reporting obligation, together with the Health Authority, which took an active part, with binding national cooperation in these areas, in order to avoid precisely what we are now seeing and have been confirmed with the reinforced reporting: that there is too poor cooperation in ensuring that if you do not have the capacity to treat your cancer patients in time, you make binding cooperation between the regions so that it is not the individual patient who will wait too long. Well, we put the patient before the system. I have also thanked DF's rapporteur in the past for the belief that all responsibility should lie on the health minister's shoulders. I also think it is important that, when we have the structure that we have in Denmark, we keep the regions up with the operational responsibility that they have and the commitment that then lies in them being the actor who is close to the citizens. And yes, it may be frustrating sometimes, but on the other hand I also think that the regions have shown their worth on a number of points, and that is also what I said in my opening remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208143104	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208143115	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we can be incredibly sorry that the Prime Minister pulled completely ashore when he became Prime Minister and invented these seven demands, which have now become some other goals, eight goals, etc., and I hear the Minister for Health say that it is a pity, and that she does not think it is satisfactory or anything else. Then I would just like to ask a simple question: how much patience does the Left have with the regions? When does the Minister expect the regions to meet the eight objectives? Is there any deadline, or is it just something that disappears into thin air like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208143149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208143152	This was, of course, some of what I went through in my opening speech when we started the question debate and it would be too extensive to repeat it all. However, there are a number of points on which we are fortunately moving forward. And in relation to the eight objectives and the underlying indicators, we can see from the latest progress report that it is progressing on approx. Two thirds of the areas. If you look at the cancer treatment in Denmark, you can see that we are far better than we have ever done. We are almost at the level of our neighbouring Nordic countries after we have been at the bottom. We have had a survival where more than six out of ten survive, where it was previously less than five out of ten who survived. For some cancers, prostate cancer, we have gained a 35 per cent survival rate. And it is thanks to the cancer packages; it is thanks to some of the initiatives that we took up through the '00s and, as the Prime Minister and Chairman of the Danish Regions, Bent Hansen, was also honoured by the Cancer Combat on Sunday at the World Cancer Day. So it is progressing in a number of areas. There are also some places where we think it is going too slowly; there are some places where it is not good enough at all. And this is the dialogue that I, as Minister of Health, regularly take with Danske Regions, because patients are entitled to make it even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208143258	Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208143301	It is a good thing that things are moving forward on a number of points, as the Minister has also explained. But is there such a level of it? What if the one progressing stagnates or it goes backwards what then? Is the Minister and the Government satisfied with the results achieved by the regions from county to region? Or would the Minister have liked them to be further ahead? And is there a deadline, so the government will say that if it does not move forward in 3, 4, 10 years, will the survival of the regions, if you can put it that way, be reviewed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208143342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208143345	It can be said that that is exactly what the question is about, that is, what status is, now 21⁄2 years after the Prime Minister formulated the seven requirements that we have translated into the eight national targets. And it has to be said that on the basis of the latest progress report, it is progressing in relation to two thirds of the objectives and indicators. We can see in a number of areas that the regions have helped to solve the problem, but there are also some areas where things are not going well enough and where there are large geographical differences. Psychiatry in the Central Jutland Region, which we have talked about independently for query debates in here, is not an area in which I think it is going very well, and it is not an area in which I have great patience. And that's where it's gonna be lifted. So that is why we are specifically going in and looking at: where is it going and where is it not going? And there we have that dialogue with the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208143429	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for brief comments. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt to conclude the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208143441	I would like to thank you for the debate. I think it is sometimes refreshing that we get these debates started, which we regularly talk about. In any case, we often mention on the part of the Danish People's Party that we would like to see the regions closed down, and therefore it is also very nice to hear where other parties stand, where you see some challenges and how you think about solving them in the future. I am very pleased that we have helped the Minister and the government parties to look at the demands that lie, that we have looked at the quality targets, and that will not be long, so I look forward to us continuing to work on it. That is why I think we have achieved little by having this debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208143534	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday 20 February 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208143546	The debate is open. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208143601	The motion for a resolution we are now considering will require the government to introduce, during the current parliamentary year, rules on offsetting for mayors and regional presidents in accordance with the rules applicable to members of parliament and ministers. The proposers refer, inter alia, to: for the replacement of a former member of parliament by remuneration for other political functions and a number of other forms of revenue, in particular: all wage income, etc. The proposers also point out that similar rules apply to ministers. I would like to start by saying that the government cannot support the resolution. If we start by looking at the rules for post-clearance reimbursement, I can inform you that mayors and regional council presidents earn the right, for each year begun, to one and a half times the last monthly remuneration paid in post-clearance payment, up to a maximum of 12 times the last post-clearance payment. In other words, the maximum remuneration for mayors and presidents of the regional councils is equal to one year's remuneration. I would like to stress here that there is no obligation to receive the amnesty. You can, but it's not a duty. The rule of succession for mayors and presidents of the regional councils differs in at least a few respects from that for members of parliament and ministers. First of all, there are different rules as to when you can get full reimbursement and for the maximum amount of the post-clearance payment. After eight years, a mayor and a chairman of the Regional Council will have earned full entitlement to reimbursement equivalent to one year's basic salary. By way of comparison, a member of the parliament of four years earns the right to an amnesty equivalent to two years' basic salary for a member of the parliament. Ministers shall earn six years' entitlement to reimbursement equivalent to three years' ministerial salary. Secondly, there are different rules on offsetting. In accordance with the rules in force, replacements shall not be granted to mayors and presidents of the Regional Council if they take up their duties as a member of the Assembly, Minister, Mayor or President of the Regional Council. I was just about to say in another municipality or in the Regional Council instead of in the municipality and in the municipality instead of the Regional Council just for the sake of completeness. There shall be no set-off or reduction of the amnesty to a mayor or chairman of the Regional Council who, at the same time, receives other revenue. In the case of members of parliament and ministers, however, there are different forms of offsetting also for income other than for the performance of other full-time political tasks to which the proposers also refer. For members of parliament there is no set-off in income up to DKK 135,900, for ministers such a rule does not apply. The statute for mayors and presidents of the regional councils is therefore different in several respects from the system of reimbursement applicable to both members of parliament and ministers, and the system of reimbursement applicable to members of parliament and ministers is not the same either. In other words, when the proposers want to focus solely on the set-off rules that will apply to the post-regulation, the proposers choose a single element of the post-regulation scheme instead of looking at whether or not full equality is achieved. You may be aware of that, but there is at least that thing to be aware of. Back in January 2016, the remuneration commission completed its work and presented the Commission's recommendations for the overall administration of mayors, regional council presidents, members of parliament and ministers. Subsequently, a few agreements were made which picked up the recommendations of the Pay Commission. This took place on 9 May and 3 October 2016, respectively, when the then Left Government entered into voting agreements with the Social Democrats, the Radical Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance on the change of the administration of full-time politicians. The agreements concerned changes in the overall administration of mayors, regional presidents, members of parliament and ministers. The agreement therefore also concerned a wide range of elements in the implementation. With regard to the reimbursement of mayors and presidents of the Regional Councils, the agreements meant that, with effect from 1 January 2017, a resignation of a mayor or chairman of the Regional Council would no longer be granted with effect from 1 January 2017 if the latter were to become a member of the Folketing or to be appointed Minister. In the past, this only applied if he subsequently took up another post as mayor or chairman of the Regional Council. It is the government's view that with the conclusion of the broad political agreements last year on the change of the appointment of full-time politicians, an overall solution has been found for mayors and regional council presidents. With this motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party now want to see whether we should do anything about one element, namely the endorsement of the two groups mentioned. As I said, the changes for the administration of mayors and regional council presidents entered into force on 1 January 2017, and the government is not prepared to look again at a single element of the administration to the two groups. Against this background, as I said, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208144150	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208144154	I am, of course, sorry to hear that, because somehow I think this should be a matter of form. Not very many years ago, after all, we in here, by a broad majority, tightened up the rules for the follow-up of ministers and members of parliament, because there was a broad consensus that it was not fair. I think it was on the basis of this Malou Aamund case that one could go out to a very high paid director's job and then at the same time raise the parliamentary salary for a whole year or for two years, as was previously the case. That is why they tightened up and said that they should already be off-set off from the first year and off-set off fully from the second year. In doing so, it had to be because there was a majority in here who believed that it was still a little too generous and perhaps also useless that taxpayers' dollars should be used to pay a very high price to those who made good money in advance. That is why my question is actually simply: if you meant it in that case, why should it not also apply to mayors and regional presidents?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208144304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208144307	One may well have the view that politicians should be rewarded to a greater extent while they are carrying out their active duties and, to a lesser extent, after they have carried out their active duties, and that is something on which we can have good discussions, and I believe that Mr. Pelle Dragsted and I have had on previous occasions. What is the case here is that there was a follow-up commission. Without having to mock anyone, not many parties were prepared to take the recommendations of the Executive Board one by one. Therefore, the then Left Government chose to speak with the parties of the Folketing and try to see how they could create a majority for some future rules of application. There they made a few agreements with the Social Democrats and the Radical Left and the two other current governing parties, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. Could that be the case if sir... Pelle Dragsted and I alone should have made the rules that there had been things in the agreement that had been different? You can never deny that. Could it be that it would have been a different way if it had been some other groups of parties that had made the agreement? You don't know that either. Now we've made the deal that is. It was the one for which a majority could be called, and that is what we are aiming for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208144418	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208144421	Of course, that's hard to answer. But I always thought it was an oversight. I mean, you tried a lot of other things. You also looked at the mayors' salary, and you put it up quite considerably, by 33 per cent, as I recall, in this agreement. I have to admit, I just didn't realize this difference until these cases rolled out just before Christmas. I saw it as a clear gap in legislation that mayors and regional presidents were not set off in the same way as all other full-time politicians do. But am I to understand that it was with open eyes that the majority said: we must have completely different rules as to what applies to a member of parliament and what applies to a mayor? Or is it an oversight?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208144507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208144509	At any rate, there are quite different rules, not only for what applies to a mayor and a regional council chairman and a parliamentarian, but also for what applies to a parliamentarian and a minister, and therefore also between a minister and a regional council member and a mayor. So there are different ways to do this. May I just stress once again, also with reference to the problems, Mr. Pelle Dragsted himself takes up the fact that it is voluntary if you receive. So you can basically just say no. What has been agreed are some total pay packages for different groups. You might think they should be different. I can also have some personal opinions about that. I believe you, sir. Pelle Dragsted knows, and we'll have to do that later.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208144547	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208144549	Thank you. I would also really like to be part of that little club that will help to look at the mistakes and shortcomings that may be left when we look at the post-mortem layer. In fact, I find it difficult to see that so many people every four years are forced to deal with their own situation more than is usual and applicable. I think there have been some folk courts along the way, which I certainly do not think that we, as a government of the people, can be served by simply standing by. So one thing is that you can do it yourself, but another thing is that I still think it looks as if there has been an oversight in relation to these rules. It was a mistake to forget to include the mayors and the regional council presidents. Does the Minister not agree that it looks as if we just forgot to make sure that the rules also included mayors and regional council presidents, and could it not provide an opportunity to clear up and correct that error?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208144649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208144651	But there are three different sets of rules. There was before, and there is now. I do not know whether one imagines that all three sets should then be the same, or only two of the three rules should be the same, as I immediately understood. I think that what the questioner is saying is a good thing, namely that we should not look at it in such a folk court-like way, but that we should look at how to best arrange the payment packages for different types of politicians, i.e. whether they are mayors, regional presidents, ministers or members of parliament. There is then a majority in the Folketing that has said: okay, this is how we see it. This has happened during this parliamentary term, and that is why I feel that this is not something we are doing more directly in this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208144739	Thank you. There is no desire for another question. Thank you, Minister. We are embarking on the rapporteur's round, and the first is Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208144806	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the SF and Enhedslisten propose that rules on offsetting be introduced in the aftermath for mayors and regional council presidents, similar to those for members of parliament and ministers. In 2016, the Service Commission came with their report, which independently of Christiansborg has analysed all elements of the administration of mayors, regional presidents, members of parliament and ministers. And as a follow-up to the Pay Commission's report, a vote agreement was then concluded in 2016 between the then Left Government, Social Democracy, Radical Left, Conservative and Liberal Alliance. The agreement therefore means, among other things, that ministers are cut short their minimum period of detention from 18 to 6 months and members of parliament are cut short their minimum period from 12 to 6 months. The agreement also means that, in the future, it will not be possible to obtain reimbursement from its former office as mayor or regional president, while at the same time receiving remuneration as a minister or a member of parliament, that is to say, tightening up the rules on reimbursement. The Commission did not have any recommendation for offsetting in the post-regulation other than the remuneration of another politically full-time profession. It is the view of the Social Democratic Party that the issue of the remuneration and reimbursement of mayors and regional presidents and, for that matter, of members of parliament and ministers should also be seen in an overall assessment. It is only a little over a year and a half since we reached this vote agreement by a majority in the Folketing on the amendment of politicians' approval, and we are, of course, standing by that agreement. Social democracy cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten and the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145004	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145009	What we are proposing here is not a breach of the agreement reached at the time. That's an addition to it. Nor is it true that the remuneration commission did not deal with set-off in the post-regulation. In fact, it was divided on the issue, so it did indeed deal intensively with the issue of offsetting in accordance with the observations made. But in relation to the fact that it is a total pay package, I would say that yes, but when you made the most recent rules, you raised the mayors' salary with, as far as I remember, 30%, without any deterioration in the conditions of the mayors, except if they were elected to the Folketing, but after all, few mayors will be. So if you now see this as a total package, it wouldn't be fair enough when you raise the salary so significantly that you say at the same time: you get a higher salary while you're here, but if you go into another well-paid director's job afterwards, then there shouldn't be taxpayers funding a year's salary. That is, in many cases, more than 1 million. kr., then you get on top of the income you step into. Does the rapporteur think that is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145120	On the other hand, in the case of outgoing mayors, the Commission proposed that a minimum of six months' remuneration be paid. This mayor is not necessarily guaranteed today if you have been mayor for less than four years. Nor was the proposal included in the political agreement. So the point is that there was And so we have relatively recently entered into this broad agreement in the Folketing. Prior to it, the mayors had not actually received a salary increase for 22 years. I believe that there is every reason to allow these conditions to enter into force. I think we should look at them before we start changing them again. Finally, as has already been said in the debate, a outgoing mayor who goes into another job can choose the possibility that he or she may renounce his or her successor. So all in all, I think we have a balanced vote agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145227	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145230	The problem with this individual approach to renouncing is that you can only renounce it all. You're leaving, for example. out and get a job after 2 months or lose your job after 2 months, you can't just choose, as it is for members of parliament, that you are counted after 1 year, and then you are set off the salary you have had. So it's really hard to solve this on an individual level. The rapporteur says this must be tested. It must also be said that it has been, and it raised at least a relatively wide debate, that there were mayors from a number of parties, including my own, who were given a fairly large salary, at the same time as they entered a job. Does the rapporteur not agree that this could help to increase this famous politician's leadership?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145317	I think it is important that we take decisions which will then also be allowed to enter into force and that we look at the time and do not change in time and early. In any case, it's only been 1⁄2 years. I therefore also regard the post-regulation as part of the overall salary of politicians. It's important to see this in a whole. It is a balance of several things, of course, because on the one hand the State should not have a salary cost that is not necessary or reasonable, and on the other hand it is part of your salary as mayor that it continues for 1⁄2 years. The two must be balanced in relation to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145356	Thank you, sir. Troels Ravn. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145405	Thank you for that, President. We are here today to consider a motion for a resolution to set off in the aftermath of mayors and presidents of the regional councils. And whether, when you are a politician, you go from one political office to another, or whether you go from politics to a profession, whether it is in the public sector or in the private labour market, the same rules must apply, namely that you do not receive double pay in the form of full remuneration, while at the same time you have income from other jobs. I can therefore begin by saying that the Danish People's Party supports the resolution. I think it is important that once and for all we also have clear rules precisely in this area, so that we do not have this debate in the media time and time again, every time there is a newly elected city council or regional council and then each politician has to decide what he or she does. And as the Minister said, you are not obliged to do so. But we also saw in Copenhagen's citizens' representation that politicians were faced with these elections and that they were put out in public. Then it may be that Enhedslisten and Mr. Pelle Dragsted in this case would like the motion for a resolution to be adopted so that one's party colleagues complied with one's party's policy, but let it be another thing. I am certainly glad that the Danish People's Party set a good example and said that, of course, if you have a different job, you should not have a copy. But I think it is problematic that politicians should be confronted with this every time. After all, it is a simple proposal which closes a gap, because according to the authors of the motion, it simply says that this proposal must have the sole purpose of including mayors and regional leaders in the rules that are currently being set against them and which apply to members of parliament and ministers. And it must be so simple. It is as if the majority of the Folketing has taken the best things from the recommendations of this remuneration committee and disregards some of the things that should compensate for a large increase in the salary of mayors and others, namely that the mayor gets the income, but then fails to do the other things. And it is quite reasonable that mayors and regional council presidents should be replaced after a given period of non-re-election, so that they have time to find another job on an equal footing with others. There is no place, however, for people's tax dollars to be used to glorify a former mayor who has gone directly from a mayor's office to another profession. So the Danish People's Party fully agrees with these two authors, and we naturally support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145705	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145709	Thank you very much. I had actually expected that, because it has to be said that although the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party are far apart on other political issues, we tend to be on the same side exactly as far as the so-called political privileges are concerned. I just have a small correction: The outgoing mayor of the Enhedslisten has taken exactly the same step that the outgoing mayor of the Danish People's Party has taken, namely, renounced double the salary. However, it is difficult, and this also applies to the outgoing mayor of the Danish People's Party, because you cannot renounce parts. So if you're out of income for a while, you get the money and then you're taxed by them, and that's what makes it very complicated to solve this. Therefore, it would be nice to have rules that applied to all of us, so that it is not the individual who is facing this challenge and who may also be hanged to dry in the media for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145802	But I can only follow up that we have some guidelines so that this dispute does not arise as to whether you can opt-out or opt-out, you are also free to have to hold this discussion again and again, which does not exactly promote support for politicians either. So clear, simple rules will also make that part of the matter much easier. I can only agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145823	Thanks to Susanne Eilersen. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, Carl Holst, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208145830	Thank you, President. As far as the remuneration of elected representatives is concerned, the intention at the time was that a remuneration commission would be set up broadly politically, saying: here we are trying to obtain criteria where not the elected representatives themselves, but some outside on a jointly informed basis, should look at how to determine remuneration and what is fair. One looked at tax matters, one looked at pension and post-employment conditions, where, as part of the mandate of the Commission's work, it was based on the fact that the remuneration was a comprehensive package of pensions, reimbursements and the monthly fixed salary. We all know, then, what happened after that work, compared to the fact that the majority of the remuneration commission's overall position was that it was to be a single package and a whole, but that it ended up being a middle thing. You took something, and you left some other recommendations alone. However, this does not change the fact that in May and October 2016, two voting agreements were made, two conciliations which just established how they looked at it at the time. And I do not think that today's proposal deals with an issue that was forgotten, because it was specifically recommended by a majority of the Commission that it should not be done. So it's not an oversight. It is part of a political agreement. In this context, the starting point of the Left is that we should look at it again, we should do it in a whole and not as a single matter. What about the members of the municipal council and the members of the regional council who resign and who, after all, are also being reasserted? What is the legal basis for what is possible today and what has been the intention? Sir. Pelle Dragsted has said a few times that you cannot renounce parts of an after-treatment. That is not true, there are actually examples of how you can do it. For me, it illustrates very well that we should perhaps have a jointly informed basis to look at a future remuneration in a whole and not on a case-by-case basis, not least in the light of the fact that twice in 2016 we settled on this and that the current rules on the mayor's salaries entered into force on 1 January 2017 and the rules on the post-re-re-lag on 1 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150135	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150136	When I talk about this being an oversight, I am thinking of the change in the law that, as far as I remember, was made back in 2012, when we changed the rules for offsetting after-treatment for other full-time politicians. As far as I am concerned, I can only say that I am sorry that we did not in the Enhedslist also tabled an amendment which also included mayors and regional presidents, because then we would have been free of much. I was actually surprised that these different rules applied. I actually believe that it is fair enough for many people out there that people receive an after-treatment of a reasonable size, because there can be a choice, and then you are out and you have to have something to live on for a period of time. But if you step straight into a job like this... Mr President, I think it is strange for many people to have a full year's salary, which in the case of a mayor may amount to more than 1 million. kr. So, I understand that you want a package together, but shouldn't you also listen to the criticism that comes from many citizens about this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150252	It is true, as the rapporteur says, that a change of law was made in relation to the aftermath of MEPs in 2012. However, what we are talking about here is something that was part of the mandate, part of the recommendations of the Pay Commission in 2016, that is, where a majority of the Pay Commission clearly recommended not to do what the resolution is about. It was just to make a quiet clarification of it. In terms of how we are to be paid, and in terms of individual cases as a whole, I would say that this is precisely the problem, that is that when we make legislation on the basis of random media whims, on who it is to be hanged out and who it is that we see through our fingers with it, we do not get a fair system. We get the fair system by seeing it in a whole and not on a case-by-case basis. That is my starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150343	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150344	But the problem here is that we now have a situation where you can get this double wage, which is, of course, the case if you step into another job. And there are many people who rightly, I think, are strange. In other words, what is special to us, this group of employees who are in this Chamber, is that we legislate on our own salaries and on the salaries of our colleagues in the municipalities. I just think that calls for much greater caution and attention in relation to whether there is something that is not fair. And that is why we have put forward this proposal which we had actually hoped we could gain support for. Because if the rapporteur agrees that everything should be looked at, when does the rapporteur think it should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150434	I mean, I think it should have been looked at as a whole in connection with the work of the Pay Commission. There was no political support for that. But I would have liked to have seen the overall overall recommendations of the Pay Commission taken up and not picked out a few. It was a process that was, a political process, and that was just the way it was. But when I do not think that it should be dealt with on a case-by-case basis, it is because one might ask: what is next? I am a little surprised that you do not have much attention as to whether it is a highly paid committee chairman or not a mayor or regional chairman who will be a member of the parliament, so that you do not think that there should be a set-off in the after-the-post payment they receive. This is not covered by the motion for a resolution, and I am surprised. And it tells me something about you not seeing it as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150524	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150527	I do not wish to deny that there are other areas that could be looked at. Now I know that the rapporteur himself has tried to find himself in a situation where it was, as it were, the voice of the people that was crucial to what kind of moral decision the rapporteur himself made, and I believe that it has been an unpleasant situation to be in. At the same time, I think that yes, you can pay back. But we also know that once it has entered the account, taxes have also been deducted and so on, and it is really a rather complicated process to pay back this money. If we agree with most of us that it is not actually fair that you can raise double salaries on the taxpayer's account when you have been elected by the people, is it not reasonable that we should consider how we can change this even before the next elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150624	The rapporteur believes that I am aware of the unpleasantness of the voice of the people. No, I have more knowledge of the unpleasantness of political outpouring, represented by SF and Enhedslisten, in relation to the fact that even if you obey the law and the rules, you are called greedy and all sorts of other things. That is the unpleasant thing, and that is what creates the voice of the people. It is the political debate that is not what the rules are and should be, but what individuals do and where SF can say: we say nothing when it comes to a SF mayor, but we say something when it comes to others. I am just saying this as a reflection on the rapporteur's question of whether I did not know a little about the people's voice. No, I know a little more about the voice of party political opponents. About the remarks about renouncing and repaying: these are two very different things. What I referred to to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, was the claim that one cannot renounce or partially renounce. There are examples of this. In the case of a refund, it is true that it is not easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150736	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150739	Fortunately, I can now say completely that I have used expressions such as greed. In fact, I have quite a lot of respect for what the rules are like right now. This does not change the fact that the ordinary citizen thinks that it is not fair to be able to receive twice good wages at the same time. But vice versa: when it is up to the individual to decide whether to receive this money or not, it can actually have quite arduous consequences, including fiscally. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that it is unreasonable for people to be in the position of working with such great difficulties to be allowed to pay back their wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150824	If you choose to waive a full and final remuneration, it is not taxable, and it is quite uncomplicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150835	Thank you. I had understood that sir... Pelle Dragsted wanted to finish the debate. I understand that as well, and that is why we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208150900	Thank you to Enhedslisten and SF for once again raising the debate on the remuneration of mayors and regional council presidents. This is not the first time we have discussed this issue in Parliament, and it may not be the last time either. That's why I'm gonna have to repeat myself a little bit. You're gonna have to take care of that. After all, we made an agreement two years ago, or a series of agreements, on the overall execution of mayors and regional council presidents, members of parliament and ministers. Those agreements are part of the Liberal Alliance and we actually think it is a very good solution that we came up with. If we should finally take another look at the scheme, it does not make sense, we think that picking out single elements and adjusting them. Then we'll have to look at the execution in its entirety. It's almost self-sustaining. As I said, however, I do not think this is necessary because we came up with a good and sustainable solution, and it has almost just been rounded up in this Chamber. So we do not really see what the purpose is for us to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151012	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151017	I was surprised by the limited length of the post... that's why I didn't have time to push in. So, with regard to this argument that you have to look at everything, I would say that I have been following this debate for quite a number of years now, and it bites itself a little bit in the tail. For many years, for example, we tried. to look at the retirement age of politicians so that it was not much lower than the retirement age of all other Danes. And then the rapporteur after the rapporteur stood up here and said: yes, but we cannot look at one element; we must look at all the elements. And then they shot it out like it was; 1 year passed, 2 years passed, 4 years passed, 5 years passed, and then came the Pay Commission, which at first was a jar, but which came with a result. Then you made a deal, but you didn't go around all the corners. That is where they chose, for example. to ignore this question. It was also chosen to ignore some other issues and not to follow what the remuneration commission recommended in a number of areas. Generally speaking, at least in the municipal area, it was decided to take what was good for politicians, and the things that bothered them were chosen not to do anything about it. So why can't you fix a corner if that corner is obviously unfair?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151125	Now the Liberal Alliance was, in fact, one of the parties that endorsed the recommendations of the Pay Commission and thus also a view that it is really important to see these things in a context and not selectively. In other words, you can always find something that might give rise to some dilemmas, and that is precisely why you set up commissions for such work. And as far as I understand, if you take out this element, some people will be able to say: yes, but Members of Parliament and ministers also earn the right to remuneration more quickly than mayors, and so on. And that shows precisely that one has to see it in a whole and cannot pick out single elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151206	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151209	However, when in 2012 it went in and changed for members of parliament and ministers, in other words, it introduced a set-off in the aftermath of other income, a single element was also tampered with. In other words, there were ministers and members of parliament, but they forgot to deal with mayors and regional councillors, although I do not know whether they forgot or deliberately failed to deal with it. And that means we're in this weird situation where there are different rules compared to this. So we had a position that it was not quite fair to be able to receive a double salary, but why is it so fair that this applies to mayors and regional councillors?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151248	I have little more to add than that I think we should not examine this kind of thing selectively. You look at them in their entirety. And that is also what we said in the round we had about ministers and members of parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151301	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151304	However, I would just like to know whether the rapporteur will respond more precisely to whether the Liberal Alliance considers it right that mayors and regional councillors can receive double pay when they resign.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151323	As we have also heard in this debate, we have the opportunity to take a decision on this ourselves. If you don't think it's correct, you can say no. And then I would just like to rely on what I said earlier, namely that picking out individual elements is a discrepancy in such discussions as these, precisely because there may be other balances that I mentioned before. After all, the remuneration of members of parliament is different from that of mayors.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151354	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151355	I think it looks more like it was a mistake that we got to forget to deal with this particular problem. And if that is what it was, should we not correct it before new mayors and regional council presidents might find themselves in the same situation in four years' time, and will the Liberal Alliance help to solve the problem by then?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151419	We'd like to help look at this problem when next time we look at this case in its entirety and maybe set up a commission and look at it a little wider. Then I'm sure this element will reappear.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151431	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151439	In the alternative, we think it is a fine proposal from Enhedslisten and SF. We do not see how the adoption of this proposal would in any way alter inappropriately the overall balance in relation to the remuneration of members of parliament and ministers, as well as to mayors and regional presidents and women. So now that there is this disagreement where mayors and regional presidents and women can make money that is not set against in the aftermath, and Members of Parliament and ministers cannot, let us regulate it in a way that benefits taxpayers, namely by depriving mayors and regional presidents and women of the right to earn this extra money on top of their after-the-post. I also think it looks like a hole, i.e. an oversight. It seems illogical that this is not in place. I don't understand why we don't just close this hole. And it upsets me a little that typically is such a vote deal or other types of agreement and conciliation often such a type of musketeered, which sort of blocks the possibility of making some minor adjustments, although they are actually both reasonable and logical. What a fine thing it would be if these motions for resolutions could be used to correct small corners and edges of conciliation and agreements which are not appropriate, which everyone can see are not appropriate, instead of having this long lubrication to show that it has to be seen in a context and that there has not been enough time and all of this. Let's fix it, let's solve it, if we can, when it's small stuff of this kind. Then you can say that there are other things too. Yeah, we'll deal with them, too. Well, we're the Folketing. So I would actually think that this would be a good opportunity to correct this little thing, and the alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151624	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151630	In the Radical Left, we can also support the proposal. We think it is fair enough that ministers and members of parliament, mayors and presidents of the regional councils should be given a copy. It may be difficult to find a job immediately after, for example, you have not been re-elected, but we also think it is fair that if you get a job, the wage income will be offset in the aftermath of the job. This is the case for ministers and members of parliament, but not for mayors and regional presidents, and we see no reason why there is a difference. That is why we agree with the authors of the motion that it should be the same, namely that the salary is offset in the aftermath also for Regional Council presidents and mayors, and that is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151723	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. We move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151728	Thank you. Is it possible to resign from office as mayor or chairman of the regional council and receive a copy even if you take up another well-paid job or job? Yes, you can, as the rules are today. Is that fair? No, of course it is not reasonable, and if anyone is in doubt, listen to the People's Court. It is completely incomprehensible to the ordinary citizen that elected representatives should be better placed than a normal official. In the SF, we believe that elected representatives should be compensated for the work they are doing, but the double-pay debates are all-important in order to ensure that we also take due account of elected representatives who do not get re-election and who cannot simply go out and find another job. Being elected by the people does not in any case decorate equally on the CV. On the other hand, it is undoubtedly also difficult to justify the fact that the elected representative may even have chosen another occupation or occupation and must also receive the follow-up from the previously well-paid job. In the SF, we want to prevent more people from going through the press's twisting machine, where they are required to answer whether they have a conscience to receive the after-the-mark, which in some cases is just ticking into the account, because these are the rules. But it is also an unfairly complicated process to repay money that has already entered the account and that has been deducted from tax. In short, we owe it to ourselves and to others once and for all to solve this task, and the obvious correct answer is, of course, to ensure that regional council presidents and mayors are given the same conditions as apply to parliamentary politicians and ministers. For all of us, I hope that the proposal will be supported or that at least in committee we can have a good discussion on how to close an obvious gap in the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151932	A brief comment from Mr. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208151934	I am a little surprised that one cares so much about the whole thing, but that here is just one element one would like to look at. That's why I'm surprised that the proposers are focusing on this element. You have the right to do so. But what about the fact that there is diversity in relation to the fact that a member of parliament gets an endorsement if one ceases in the course of an election, but not in the middle of a parliamentary term, as opposed to being mayor or chairman of the regional council? What about the fact that a private council member, who can also be highly paid, can go straight from the city council work into a well paid job and get a copy which, in turn, cannot be disclaimed? My question is: why have you not allowed it to be included in this, since you are so concerned that the Danes, the people, the People's Court do not understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208152031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208152032	I think there is a clear difference between being mayor of a full-time or regional council chairman in a full-time office and being an ordinary council member with the committee posts that that would now entail. And that's what this proposal is about. It is about people who have a full-time office as mayor or as chairman of the Regional Council and then I cannot really think of others that we have forgotten to take into account in the legislative process originally.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208152059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208152100	There are no mayors who, through committee chair posts, deputy mayors and others, receive a salary that is at the same level as the salary of a ministerial post today. It is a bit of a misinformation to say that this is only a question of full-time mayors, because ordinary people do not have a wage income which justifies the tabling of a motion for a resolution to stop double-paying.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208152139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208152140	Now I simply do not know what kind of an ordinary town council member is and what kind of committee post will result in a salary equal to that of a minister, I think the questioner mentioned. This proposal is about taking into account the fact that there are people who are elected to full-time jobs for a period of time, and I also think it is fair to say that they are the ones that this proposal is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208152208	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. We move on to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208152213	Thank you. It is, of course, customary to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting it forward, most of all of courtesy. Today I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. I would like to do this out of sincere gratitude, because this actually gave rise to some discussion in the Conservative Parliamentary Group on how we look at some of these things. This is not something we use in this way for the majority of our group meetings to discuss. This is the kind of thing that sometimes comes up when there can be a resolution like this. It was not something we had actively taken a position on before, i.e. whether we thought that the same rules should apply to mayors and regional council presidents as to ministers and members of parliament. However, the discussion we had in our parliamentary group actually led us to agree that we believe that the same rules should apply, that is to say that there should be similar rules, whether you have been mayor or chairman of the regional council, or you have been a member of the parliament. If we do not support this motion for a resolution then it is an expression that we are part of a government and, of course, loyally have a common government position, and that shows that we are part of the voting agreement that dates back to 2016, when it has all been a great process of negotiation. Some have weighed some elements high, others have weighed other elements high, and in respect of the compromise reached at the time, it would not be fair if we now gave ourselves to adjust on these things. So we will not be supporting the motion for a resolution before us, but I would like to make it clear that we believe in principle that it should be for members of the Regional Council and mayors, as it is for Members of Parliament and ministers today. Then this argument was put forward that one should look at it as a whole. I can easily follow that argument too, but, on the other hand, when we look at the after-the-counter layer, it has an independent function. After all, it must serve a purpose: it is a guarantee that all people will dare to engage in politics, no matter what job they have, regardless of what their job prospects are afterward, and I believe that it is basically the same, whether you have been a member of parliament or whether you have been a mayor or a president of the Regional Council. That is why I think it is fair to make uniform rules, but I also think it is fair to discuss post-retirement in isolation from the rest of the salary, because I believe that post-retirement should serve a particular purpose. It's not just a way to pay a little extra money. The aftermath serves a purpose, otherwise I do not think we can defend it at all. Then it is true that it is being pointed out here that these recommendations have been made by the Pay Commission. In some places we followed them, and elsewhere we did not follow them. It wasn't the prettiest course, I must admit. I also think that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur had some points on that issue. As I recall, one of the recommendations from the remuneration commission was that mayors and regional council presidents should be set off against the board posts they had as mayors and regional council presidents. We chose not to do so in the agreement that was reached, and we can argue that if we had to follow their recommendations in this area, I would also say that we should at least do so in the other area. These were just such a bit of honest reflections from the discussions we have had on this resolution. Let me stress that we are not going to back it up, but it has given rise to some discussion among us, and we believe that the same rules should apply to these two groupings. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208152554	A short line from Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208152558	Thank you. I am very pleased that this has led to a debate and not to a spinal rejection, as has, unfortunately, sometimes been the case from a number of parties when we have had these debates over time. So it is very good to hear that the debate is taken seriously in the Conservative People's Party. Just in practical terms: this vote has been referred to. I understand that you are part of the government, and then you decide in the government how to vote that is what it is usually like, although I can see that there are some exceptions at the moment when it comes to what dress you can wear, but leave it at that. But this vote agreement is not a settlement, I suppose it is a vote agreement. So how long is the Conservative People's Party bound by this vote agreement? Now we didn't have the Social Democracy with us, so it doesn't mean much, but in some cases it will mean something where the Conservatives lie down. So how long are we bound by this vote agreement in the eyes of the rapporteurs, and when are we going to have to look at individual elements again?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208152657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208152658	Well, that is a very good question to which I cannot give a clear answer. I simply cannot remember whether there are any wordings in the text of the agreement that was made at the time. I don't imagine there is. Someone's nodding and signaling to me that there's no deadline on it. So in this way it is a question of when there are parties that come together and agree that there are things that need to be reviewed. I would say that when you do it at some point, you have to adjust more than this one thing. That is to say, other points have been pointed out where there are also shortcomings. So I think you should put it together for a pool and put it together at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208152731	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208152752	As has also emerged from the debate, the proposal that we have put forward with the SF is to equate the rules for offsetting in accordance with the rules, so that mayors and regional council presidents are subject to the same rules as those applicable to members of parliament and ministers, namely that the post-regulation is a kind of, you can say, very generous allowance: that is something you get if you do not have a job. If you get a job, they'll be set off against you so you don't get a double salary. Those are the rules for members of parliament and ministers, but these are not the rules for Regional Council presidents and mayors. On the contrary, they can receive, for example: a copy of 1 million; kr., if you are mayor, at the same time as they enter a well-paid job on the private or public labour market from day one, i.e. a double salary. The reason for this debate is, of course, that after the last municipal elections there was a violent debate about this, because it emerged that a number of outgoing mayors, including one of Enhedslisten's outgoing mayors, were in this situation where you could receive up to 1 million. kr., if there were two terms of office, at the same time as you entered a job and didn't really need it here. Many people were outraged, and I think that is actually very understandable. I think it is fair that there should be an after-treatment. I really think that Mrs Mette Abildgaard's arguments were right. I mean, you have to dare to become mayor or politician, even if you have a higher salary. Of course, one might consider whether it was fine just to be included in the benefit system like others. But it can be said that at least it spreads the circle of people who dare to enter it, that there is an after-treatment for a period of time. I think that's fair enough. On the other hand, I do not think it is fair that you should get the copy even if you do not need it. After all, it is taxpayers' money, and that is why it seems strange. That is why it was actually a surprise to me when this case arose. I really would have liked to have been prepared for the rules to be that way, let me just put it so quietly. In fact, I thought that the same rules applied to regional council presidents and mayors. We have been very busy for many years in the Enhedslisten of this trying to get some reasonable pay terms that did not involve any unreasonable privileges for politicians. I remember when we tightened the set-off rules for members of parliament and ministers. I was quite sure that the same rules also applied to mayors and presidents of regional councils. But it turned out they didn't. There's a hole. I find it very difficult to see what the argument would be for there to be that difference in the rules. After all, the aim of the post-regulation must be the same in both cases, in other words, both for mayors and regional council presidents, and for members of parliament and ministers. That's why I actually expected it to be a bit of a matter of form to change this. I can then hear from the debate that it is not that neither the government parties nor the Social Democratic Party will unfortunately support the proposal. On the other hand, I do not think I have heard any very good arguments for this. There's been a discussion about whether you can take out one of these elements. But you've done that before. When some changes were made based on the report of the Service Commission, it was also cherry picking I don't even know how to say in Danish; that is, that you chose the parts of what was advantageous in most cases and left the others behind. In relation to this, whether it would involve a complete equality of all things: no, I do not think that it needs to be. These are different tasks, but the principles should be fairly matching, that is, the principles that the post-employment principle has a purpose, and that is to ensure an income during the period when you are looking for a new job after you may have been voted out by the electorate or have chosen not to re-set yourself. Then it has been said here that you can just say no. Firstly, I really think that is what the SF rapporteur quite rightly said about the fact that it puts the individual politician in a bit of a cat-ache, that they should then argue to one or the other or the third about why they think they should be allowed to keep the money. It is not beneficial that this is the way this kind of case is settled. We also voted against on the part of the Enhedslisten when, in an amendment, the Social Democratic Party proposed that we should also be able to renounce the parliamentary salary. That's not a good idea. Nor is it a good idea for politicians to be able to go to the polls to say: I am cheaper than sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, 'cause I don't need a copy. That's not a good idea. Secondly, it is not actually that simple either. Let us take one example: you are the outgoing mayor, you have no job, but after a month you get a job. Then you've been paid your copy for the first six months or years I don't remember it exactly. It's been taxed, and then you can't just pay it back. This is what has led both the outgoing mayor of the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten to end up in something with humanitarian organisations that will then get money. It's not ideal. On the other hand, there may also be a situation where you renounce it because you have got a job, and then you get a guy's note after a few months. Then you stand there without any income, including cash benefits. So it is not enough for you to be able to give up this money voluntarily. We should have common rules. I'm about to finish. After all, I still know that this rarely happens a chance to change attitude during the committee's proceedings. Because this issue is basically about the trust of the people. Unlike everyone else, we legislate on our own salaries and on the salaries and working conditions of our colleagues in the municipalities. That's a little weird. Other people may not do that if you're the director, but you don't even do that because there's the board that decides the salary. But if you're the manager of your own business, you can decide your salary. But it's very unusual for you to decide your own salary. But we do that in here, we legislate about our own pay. However, in my opinion, this just requires extreme vigilance over what are unfair privileges. And I think it is an unreasonable privilege to raise 1 million. kr. In the case of a job which is well-paid, you are entitled to the same benefits as you are entitled to the same benefits. So if we do not get through this time, I am sure we will be discussing it again, because these matters tend to come up over and over again, because the people are right to say that there must be reasonable conditions for the remuneration of politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208153513	A brief comment from Mr. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208153516	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for raising the debate and questions. We just look at it so differently. I wonder if that is as much a comment as it is a question, but then let it be a feature of the debate • that the rapporteur said earlier in the debate that why not look at this corner, understood that here is a hole, here is an oversight. The rapporteur should be aware that this is not an oversight. The remuneration committee recommended that what the motion for a resolution is about should not be done. I am not saying that we should agree with the remuneration commission. In other contexts, reference has just been made to the remuneration commission in order to find arguments for furthering its political cause. Why is it not the case that the endorsement of members of parliament is held in connection with elections? Mayors and Presidents of the Regional Council are in the middle of a parliamentary term. Why is it that we are not dealing with the post-recruitment that exists in relation to ordinary town council and regional council members who can be highly paid? Why is it not that in that case they cannot renounce it, and why is it not that simply saying no is wrong, because that means that the rapporteur on the Enhedslist believes that it would be immoral if, as a parliamentarian, other people were thought to be immoral if they accepted money?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208153641	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208153642	The last thing I didn't quite understand, but let me try to answer some of the other. There are certainly other things you could look at. I would very, very much like to sit down with sir. Carl Holst, who has a great insight into these municipal pay relationships and talks about what else you could do. I think that, as the SF rapporteur also mentioned, there is a slight difference between the definition used by the remuneration commission, namely that there are full-time politicians, and then there are those who are not full-time politicians. Because in most cases, people want a job next door. Then there's the thing about mayors stepping out in the middle of a period of time. That is true, but if we introduced this principle of set-off that we are proposing that has, for example. was a case with SF's outgoing mayor out in Lejre, as far as I remember, who went out in a job then it would also be set off. So that's where we'd solve that problem. Then, of course, people could step out and not get a job, and then they'll still get away. However, the set-off would solve the problem raised by the rapporteur, even for those who go out in the middle of a period. I'm gonna have to do the next round.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208153749	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208153753	I recognise that it could be difficult to understand the latter, because it was incomprehensible. I could see from the President that now I had to limit myself and then I did not succeed. The rapporteur, together with the co-author of the SF, says that it cannot be right that it is the morale of the individual that determines what is decided. At the same time, there are fellow party members from the rapporteur's own party who have made themselves moral judges of other people. I'm a little puzzled and I think it sounds hollow. Then the rapporteur refers to knowledge of other corners of this. I really don't. I've just read the report from the Pay Commission that you're referring to in your proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208153834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208153837	So let me get to the point with the Pay Commission. In fact, the remuneration commission proposes that there should be no set-off for members of parliament, even in the second year. In fact, you are proposing that the post-marketing period should be shortened to one year rather than two years, and that there should be no set-off at all. So in this case you have neither chosen, you can say, to follow the proposals of the Pay Commission one way or the other. However, a minority opinion on the remuneration committee, as is also apparent from the observations made in the proposal, suggested that this should be done in the way we have proposed. So there was a disagreement about that in the Salaries Commission. In relation to the last question, I would like to say that I think this should be something that is regulated by law. I do not think that this should be a matter for the individual to decide on in all cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208153921	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208153934	The debate is open. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208153950	We shall now consider a motion for a resolution by the Socialist People's Party on the abolition of double mandates. The proposal is that it should no longer be possible to be a member of a municipal council or a regional council and at the same time be a member of the Folketing, contrary to the current rules, where it is possible to be a member of a municipal council or a regional council and at the same time be a member of the Parliament here. It is the government's view that it must be up to the individual parties themselves to decide whether or not to allow double mandates in the party. There are some of the parliamentary parties which have just banned double mandates or office, and that is fine if that is the position of the parties concerned, namely that one cannot be a member of a municipal council or a regional council and at the same time be a member of the Folketing. We just do not think that it is the Folketing that should lay down such rules. Of course, it takes a certain amount of work to be a member of a municipal council or a regional council and at the same time to be a member of the Folketing if you want to do both properly. But it is no different from being a member of a municipal council or a regional council and having a demanding job next door, or for that matter if you are a member of a municipal council and at the same time a member of a regional council. In my opinion, it must be up to the individual Member to assess whether he or she has the necessary profits to carry out both duties. The government does not want to lay down general rules which limit the current opportunities to carry out the duties simultaneously. And in the end, it must be up to the electorate to assess whether a candidate is able to safely perform the duties of a member of a municipal council or a regional council, while at the same time being a member of the Folketing. If the electorate does not think that is the case, he or she can choose to vote for someone else. The most important thing for me is that those elected to a municipal council, a regional council or to the Folketing have the interest and the will to do the work required to sit as elected representatives of the bodies concerned. In addition, in my view, there are some clear advantages in the fact that a member of a municipal council or a regional council can at the same time be a member of the Folketing. Firstly, it provides an opportunity to act as links between municipalities, regions and Parliament. The member can thus convey messages and experiences from the municipal council or the Regional Council to the Folketing and vice versa. Secondly, it provides an insight into how the laws we adopt here in the Folketing work in practice in regions and municipalities. It is not necessarily unhealthy that there are also people in here who can continuously tell about how it happens in the concrete reality. In short, the government's position is that it should not be up to the Folketing to limit the power of elected representatives to perform more duties. We do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154252	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154255	I would just like to know whether the Minister acknowledges the study by VIVE, which points out precisely that since the municipal reform the work of a city council politician has increased considerably and that the average municipal councillor has work equivalent to about 20 hours a week, where you have to be able to perform, while at the same time you have to do the job in the Folketing, which is certainly a full-time office. Does the Minister not think that we are sending out some signals to the public that we are taking a little bit lightly on the fact that we are actually paying tribute to the work that we are going to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154341	I fully acknowledge the report's description of the actual reality. However, I do think that this is a completely wrong approach that the Socialist People's Party has on this matter. It must be up to the voters to assess who they want to be represented by and not to the SF. I think that if the SF as a party wants you not to have double mandates, then you can do it. If SF thinks that you should not be the director of a company while sitting in a municipal council, then it must be up to the SF to say that you should not. If SF thinks that one should not be a voluntary member of the association, while at the same time sitting in a municipal council, because it cannot be considered by members of the municipal council of the SF, then I think it is good that the SF makes that decision. I just don't see what this is about the other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154429	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154430	Now it is true that if I have a demanding job and at the same time a municipal councillor, I still have to ask the job to give me the freedom to be able to do the work of the municipal council. The same does not apply to my role as a parliamentary politician. In other words, we cannot buy ourselves out of the parliamentary political work to carry out the work of the municipal council. The absence of meetings at the same time actually results in a great deal of absenteeism. Does the Minister not think that sending the citizens is the wrong signal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154506	Without making myself wise in the work of the various parliamentary groups, one could imagine that the pressure of work in a seven-member parliamentary group was different from that of a 46-member group. It may also be the case that there are different working procedures in the different parties. It may be that there are different committee representations, etc. Indeed, if you are to have flexibility in your job, it also requires you to get permission from the party in which you are sitting. It is actually complete as if you were employed in a private or public company. That is why I think it is a great deal to be like it and see no reason to adopt the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154544	Thank you, Minister. We start with the rapporteur's line, and first it's Mr. Knox. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154557	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the SF proposes that we prohibit double mandates so that it will no longer be possible to be a member of a municipal council or a regional council and at the same time be a member of the Folketing. As the SF explains in the explanatory statement of the motion for a resolution, there may be challenges with double mandates. For example, SF rightly points out that it is a time-consuming job to be a full-time politician in Denmark, which is most recently documented in a KORA report from 2016, and therefore a place in both the Folketing and the municipal council will be very time-consuming. On the other hand, I would not rule out the possibility that there may be advantages in the fact that the same person represents both locally and nationally. In my party, the Social Democratic Party, we have written into our constitution that the members of the party cannot both assume the role of a member of a municipal council or a regional council and at the same time be in the Folketing. This is in order to fulfil the role that has been assigned to us in the best possible way. I myself have been in the position of having to choose, and I am glad we have these statutes. Personally, I do not see it possible to be both, but we do not think, however, that legislation should be made as to whether each party should have double mandates. We believe that it is a free choice where it is up to each party to decide. Ultimately, it is the voters who decide whether or not to vote for politicians with double mandates. With these comments, therefore, we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154741	There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154744	It's very short. The rapporteur mentions that there may be advantages in representing both a municipal council and its party in the Folketing, but can there not also be a democratic problem in both being represented locally and centrally? Let me give you an example. We are discussing the compensatory reform, in which we will, of course, take a number of opposing decisions, in relation to what the local wish might be, because it will certainly be very different for me to know what the municipalities would think in a situation where, for example, we are dealing with. Did the compensation reform discuss and could there not also be a democratic problem with both taking care of the overall framework for the municipalities and at the same time taking care of local interests?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154837	Well, it cannot be ruled out that the questioner has a point. But I believe, and we still think, that it should not be upset that it is the voters who must have the final decision in relation to which politicians they want to represent them in city councils, regional councils and parliament respectively. I do not believe that this is a matter for us to legislate on in the Folketing. That is not to say that this is not an exciting debate, but on the bottom line it will say that we should not legislate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154916	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208154923	Thank you for that, President. B-36 is a motion for a resolution by the SF to abolish double mandates for members of parliament. I would like to begin by saying that the Danish People's Party does not support the proposal. It must always be up to each member of parliament to assess whether he or she can sit on a city council or regional council while at the same time doing his or her parliamentary work. And if you can make it work together, it can be a gain for both the member and the party that you can draw on the knowledge gained, as the minister also well explained here, in other words, in relation to the interaction between municipal work and the parliamentary work. That is why we in the Danish People's Party will leave it up to the individual party to lay down rules on who is appointed to the city council, the regional council and the parliament, just as last year we decided to make it possible to change some electoral engineering about layouts and the use of list voting, and there was also a clear indication that each party could choose the form of order it wanted. The same should apply here, and in the end it is as was also pointed out before a matter between the electorate and the individual politician. If voters lose confidence, it is the sovereign voters who decide whether the politician can be elected again. And then there is one problem that the proposers must take into account, and that is that we have two Greenlandic members of the Folketing who are also members of Greenland, and I do not know how to deal with that. So the Danish People's Party does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155116	There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155118	A fellow party member from Skanderborg had an ordinary civilian job and a salary of DKK 100,000. The $100,000. She simply used to buy herself free from her civilian job, so on the bottom there was such a round zero. Mrs Susanne Eilersen has that advantage in relation to her situation, namely that you can keep the remuneration when you also have your parliamentary salary, because there is no set-off. I would just like to ask Mrs Susanne Eilersen, who has just tried to sit here both on a local council and in the Folketing: how often do you have to cancel either on the town council in Fredericia or at meetings of the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155205	I can speak very clearly for myself, as I am fortunate enough to be placed in a municipality where a former MP sits as mayor and knows about this issue. As both elected representatives in Fredericia City Council and here at Christiansborg, I only sit on the committees that have meetings on Mondays. So it is very, very limited, and absence can also be illness and other. In this way, I also believe that many people make it fit in with the job functions they have, either at Christiansborg or at the city council.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155240	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155242	I am trying again because I think that Mrs Susanne Eilersen knows representatives like my former colleague in Skanderborg, who has to use the remuneration to free herself from the civilian job in order to get the ends together, because you cannot schedule the meetings to be on Mondays or when they happen to have a day off. Is it reasonable that as a parliamentary politician you can receive both remuneration from the Folketing and remuneration for your city council work and then imagine that at the same time you are able to solve both tasks at once?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155324	There are also incredibly large problems of buying out time when you are employed in the private sector. There are also problems during the harvest time for farmers, etc. There are many problems, so there is no clear answer to that. That is why I believe that it should be up to every member of the House to be able to assess whether it is possible to do so. Because I have been looking at absenteeism statistics, which unfortunately were only recorded here in the autumn concerning members of parliament, but not about other members of municipal councils. There were also absenteeism lists there, and you can also be sick.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155405	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155408	Thank you. I would like to try to pursue the lead that Mrs Kirsten Normann has put forward here, because I do not really think the rapporteur is dealing with it. As a member of the Folketing you get a whole lot of thousands of kroner a year, which we have just discussed. You get an extra cost supplement, tax-free. If you sit at the same time in a municipal council, you will also receive a remuneration from there. Is it reasonable now to consider what the basis of the parliamentary vote is? It is, of course, that you are full hour, 24-7, 365 days representative of the voters and have to live up to the wishes and needs and demands that come out of it. And next to that, on top of that, more than full-time, one must also be a municipal councillor. Could we not take that view because the rapporteur, and there we agree in principle, does not want us to legislate on this, with double mandates, whether it is now reasonable to be able to raise remuneration in both places as elected?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155515	Is it reasonable that, as a member of parliament, we should also report to some committee work in here because we are sitting on different committees that have meetings at the same time or that we are travelling abroad or something else? Is it so fair that you get your full pay? Yes, of course it is. And is it fair that you work more than 37 hours? Well, it's up to any citizen to decide how much you want to work. I am sure that a director in the private sector also works far more than 37 hours and then gets paid for it. However, I certainly believe that it is up to the electorate to think whether it is reasonable. We don't have to judge that from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155556	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155558	After all, we agree that it is up to the electorate to assess whether it is reasonable to have double mandates. I will unfold in my own rapporteur's speech, which is why, in principle, we believe that it must be the voters who decide. But that's just not what I asked. What I asked is something that we have a very great deal of influence on here in the Danish Parliament, namely whether it is reasonable for remuneration to be paid in both places. I have not received an answer to that. It's just a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155626	Of course it is. When you are elected to a job for which you also put a lot of hours, it is reasonable that you can also raise remuneration in both places. Well, then we can come out and say that if you're sick, you're gonna have to pay for it? Then there is another thing in it, because then there is absenteeism. Because when there is absence at a city council meeting, there is only absence. Actually, it doesn't say why you're absent. Then you also have to register much more, in relation to what the absence is due to, and then make a wage assessment based on it, and then it starts to become very, very wrinkled. If you are called by citizens on a Sunday afternoon, when you sit at a christening or when you have to talk to journalists, you must receive additional remuneration. That's always the way it is, and then we get into petites.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155712	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155724	The Left cannot support the motion for a resolution to ban double mandates, as we do not believe that it is the legislators who should define what the individual is capable of. This is not to say that it will be difficult for a number of people both to sit in the Folketing and to sit on a council or on a regional council. Depends on a lot of things. Are you a member of a parliamentary group which is in government and therefore has an extra amount to do as rapporteur? Are you a member of a large parliamentary group or a small parliamentary group? Are you resident in a municipality which is within walking distance or close to walking distance, or are you resident in a municipality of Jutland where there is a long journey time back and forth? Is the meetings right, in relation to Monday, there is city council work etc.? My point is that it is up to the individual on the basis of different considerations, different possibilities and different abilities. But it also depends on where you are in life. Some have small children, others do not have small children etc. That is why the Left does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155841	There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208155847	Thank you, and I'm sorry I just got to have a word with Mr. Simpson. Carl Holst. Unlike the other rapporteurs, I would now like to start with the good arguments against having double mandates, because they are therefore put forward in the comments on the resolution. There is, of course, a problem of time. I think most citizens will think: Can it now be right and sensible that you can both claim a full-time job and in reality more than a full-time job in here • I think that there are quite a lot of members of the Danish Parliament who have and at least fulfil an obligation to be available when the government calls in for the consideration of bills and all sorts of other things, and then at the same time contest an increasingly demanding job as a municipal politician? In the Enhedslisten, we are therefore in complete agreement that it is not a good idea to strive for it and that, as absenteeism statistics, I think, there is some indication that one can always discuss them. Then an argument is highlighted about something with some bias. I don't really know how to comment on that. Personally, I do not have any experience or attitude about it, but I would like to add another argument which I think is very important: politics should not be the soldiers of thunder shields. That is a democratic problem, we think, in the Enhedslisten, if it is the same people who care about all the posts if you have to pull it up a bit. That is why double mandates should not be promoted. However, for reasons of principle, we do not really think that this is where we agree with the previous rapporteurs that Parliament should interfere with the rules of the parties. In principle, we believe that this is an interference in the freedom of association which we should not be doing here in the Folketing. It must be up to the electorate to make the decision, and there we, who are opposed to double mandates, have to recognise that there are, therefore, a great many examples of voters actually choosing people who sit in both places. There you have to respect that choice, even if you come from a party that thinks it is weird. So what we think should be done is to set the other parties with a good example, and we have done so, just as I understood that the Social Democratic Party has done so in the Enhedslisten. We have written in our statutes that everyone from the Enhedslisten can hold only one elected office as a Councillor, a Regional Councillor, a Member of Parliament or a Member of the European Parliament at a time. There are no loopholes there: only one job. But then we have also been pragmatic. We say that the main board may allow double mandates for defined periods, according to the recommendation of local departments and regions. We have, in fact, been pleased with that provision at a time when we had a outgoing member of parliament who was elected at the same time as a member of the council. We, as a party, needed a great deal to ensure that they did not just disappear out of the system in here overnight. There is something else that can be done if you have a position of principle, and I have mentioned it a little in my questions to the previous rapporteurs. If you have a position in principle that double mandates are bad, then we can look at the problem of remuneration when we are discussing this in advance with remuneration, and what is right and reasonable and sensible in this respect, and to introduce a principle that no remuneration can be paid in both places. How exactly this is to be linked up, I am sure you can ask me a lot of questions about which I cannot answer on a stand-by basis, but we would very much like to take part in a work on a report on this proposal, on which we must, of course, note that there is no majority. But then perhaps we could do a story where we looked at a problem like this. So I would just like to say that we would like to cooperate with other parties to make a contribution to a report where we could then get a majority for the vote or we might not be able to either, but we could hope and work on it that we should have made some rules that could not simply increase remuneration in both places.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208160323	That did not lead to any questions, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208160333	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we find it extremely difficult to understand that from here we need to know how much people can overcome when it comes to their working lives or, rather, the division between work and leisure time. Our Lord has created man very differently; some are under stress just thinking of going to work, while others can have both two and three jobs without sleeping over it. Nor can I understand why there should be any difference between a schoolteacher or a farmer or a full-time blacksmith choosing to change some of his spare time with city council work and a member of parliament doing the same. I don't understand any of that. The MEP even has the advantage over the blacksmith and the farmer that he or she may be able to learn much more about the professional substance, as well as the MF's easier access to clarification of the many professional issues involved in the legislation and its implementation. Imagine that it should actually be prohibited that MFs who know something about the difficult implementation of legislation should not be involved in making laws, and vice versa. The easiest thing is often to pass the laws, it is much harder to implement them; you know something about that when you sit on the city council. As it is probably SF and Enhedslisten known, we can now and then make laws that are very difficult to implement and where we have to back up because we have made some of a bureaucratic monster. In the area of taxation, for example, I can do this. mention the fat tax, the security of supply tax or the burning tax in the energy sector, where the latter caused enormous problems for the hundreds of thousands of citizens with wood-burning furnaces who had to send pictures to the SKAT if they had bought some rafts and had intended to create a plank to prove that they hadn't cut it all out and stuffed it in the fireplace. We think it is only good that we know a little about what we are dealing with when we are dealing with laws in here, and we cannot accept such a paternal demand to refuse double mandates. As has already been mentioned, SF and Enhedslisten are, of course, completely free to make the rules that they themselves think are reasonable. On this basis, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208160622	There is a request for a brief remark from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208160626	For the sake of good order, I think that Enhedslisten will be free from standing on this proposal, I could hear. In the SF we have no intention of deciding how much to overcome. In fact, we do not want to interfere with that either. We know it's different. Nevertheless, experience shows that full-time parliamentary politicians find it difficult to cope with both. Experience has shown this. I can hear that with regard to, for example, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mrs Susanne Eilersen has had to make special arrangements to ensure that it is on Mondays that the meetings at which Mrs Susanne Eilersen is to attend are held. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: are there such special agreements in Slagelse, or have the rapporteur himself experienced situations in which either one had to cancel meetings of the City Council in Slagelse or other committee meetings or instead had to cancel committee meetings or parliamentary meetings?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208160725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208160728	I can give a very specific answer to that. We all put our meetings, committee meetings and city councils and Economic Committee meetings on Monday. Moreover, I think that the vast majority of work is done outside the meetings. So the thing about counting meetings and judging by it how much and how little you've worked in one place or another... there's a lot of reporters who think that's funny... I'm having an incredibly hard time seeing. I know very, very many people who work a lot between meetings, get into it, and then something can happen. We also know in here that there may be foreign travel and everything that makes it impossible to press the button on Tuesdays, but that does not mean skipping work for that reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208160807	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208160811	I absolutely don't use the concept of ditching. I just ask one more question: are there situations in which the rapporteur is unable to perform his duties in the City Council of Slagelse, because the rapporteur has tasks in the Folketing, or vice versa, in other words situations in which the rapporteur has to cancel agreements or meetings of the Folketing, because there are some things that need to be looked after in the Slagelse municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208160836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208160839	There may be examples of this, just as there may be examples that the farmer cannot come to harvest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208160843	No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208160850	Thank you, and thank you to the SF for making this proposal. This has led to a really good debate in the Alternative, where there are many good arguments for and against this proposal. Arguments for the proposal, i.e. arguments for abolishing double mandates, are that politicians with double mandates have higher absenteeism rates and more often cancel meetings of the city council. Thus, elected representatives with dual mandates often miss important political discussions about the future of the municipalities. Another thing is that politicians are paid for their work. Therefore, it is questionable if elected representatives with double mandates neglect their municipal/regional trust office on the basis of parliamentary work. A third point is that if you abolish the possibility of double mandates, you will be able to spread power into several hands. Double mandates also contribute to a demographic distortion, as it is often easier logistical for politicians close to the capital and Christiansborg to sit on a double mandate. A ban on double mandates will improve the conditions for having more new candidates elected. Another argument is that there is a risk that double mandates lead to confusion of power, because the Folketing makes laws for the whole country, while the city council works for the municipality and the regional council of the region. So there can be, for example. Some members of the Folketing have local/regional interests in mind rather than national politics. These are a lot of good arguments for abolishing double mandates. We also have arguments for not doing so, for example. that it is undemocratic to forbid anyone to run for office. Citizens must have the opportunity to vote for all those who make themselves available and want to serve the community. Democracy chooses what democracy thinks is best. If the people do not want politicians sitting on double mandates, they are free to vote for some others. We're sorry to ban them. We are sorry to restrict the democratic rights of our citizens by saying that you must not. It must also be up to the individual parties whether they want to draw up internal guidelines on double mandates, as several parties do. In the alternative, we have not yet taken a position on whether we as a party will or will not allow double mandates. As a party, we should take a position before we want to legislate in this area. Another argument is that it is a strength to be elected both to the Folketing and to the City and Regional Council, as it provides perspective and insight into the real world. At the same time, it allows local issues to be raised at national level and vice versa. Another argument against the proposal is that abolishing double mandates restricts the democratic right of citizens to choose between all potential candidates. Finally, the argument that parliamentary politicians do not have time to attend to a post in a city council or a regional council does not necessarily hold. Most regional and local politicians have another job alongside the work of the City and Regional Council. And as long as we do not legislate on other professions, we should not do so in relation to parliamentary politicians either. So there are a lot of good arguments in favour, and there are actually a lot of good arguments against voting in favour of this proposal. And in the alternative, we do disagree, but we disagree in the right way. It has generated a long debate on democratic conditions, which we consider to be extremely important. Therefore, we will choose to use what we call our membership mandate by sending this decision on this proposal to our members. So we are simply sending out this proposal to the Members of the Alternative and getting a very basic decision from our Members, whom I naturally look forward to presenting at second reading of this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208161222	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208161226	Yeah, thanks for that. It was just because, when the rapporteur had to mention the negative things, the rapporteur said that there was a higher percentage of absenteeism among people with double mandates than in others. Does the rapporteur have any evidence to say so? For me, I saw only absenteeism rates for people who had double mandates. I did not see in the autumn a list of absenteeism rates for all council members. I may have missed something in the autumn when it was there, but I actually think only calculations had been made on those who had double mandates. So does the rapporteur have any evidence to say that there are higher absenteeism rates for people who have double mandates than for people who do not have on the city council?
ParlaMint-DK_20180208161305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208161308	No, I don't dare speak that clearly. I will take note of that too. I supported some of the comments made in the proposal, and I think it pointed that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208161316	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208161319	I find this very unfortunate in this discussion because it takes one-sidedly some things that have been in the newspaper about what absenteeism rates double mandates have, but not in relation to what absenteeism procedures all Council members in Denmark have. So you send the wrong signal. So I would just like to urge that you may not do so if you haven't documented it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208161337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208161340	Thank you for pointing this out. After all, we are making clear the points we have to send out to our members both for and against • and there it is clear that we will look at that point again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208161349	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. We're gonna go over to sir's. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208161359	In the Radical Left, we believe that the parties and, ultimately, the voters themselves must be allowed to decide whether they want to sit and vote for a person who has a double mandate. After all, the rapporteur of the alternative had a long review of the advantages and disadvantages. We believe that they must then be balanced by the electorate when they vote. That is why we are opposed to this resolution, because it will deprive the electorate of the opportunity to choose for themselves, and we think they should have it. So we are against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208161437	No one has asked for short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208161444	Thank you, President. When I was a newly elected member of parliament after the last parliamentary elections, I sat at the same time on the Regional Council of the Capital Region, and I had six months in which I had a double mandate, and I did so because I had a chair in the Capital Region for a committee which I myself had chosen to set up. That committee had only five or six months left of its life, and then I think it would be politically irresponsible to have to leave it to a new chairman in such a short time. That's why I decided to spend the period and have experienced this double-up. There was a huge advantage in this, in that the things that I sat with in the Capital Region of Health and in regional work experienced as great frustrations, I suddenly had a political responsibility for as health rapporteur at Christiansborg. There I could see what a huge value it has to experience things from both places. I also ended up concluding that it could not go on like this. I had to quit the Regional Council. I did so because it was quite simply impossible for me to deliver satisfactorily both places. That's why I made that decision. But I was also elected to the Parliament's smallest parliamentary group. We sat six men, and I started out with 13-14 rapporteurs. And it was not compatible for me to have a double mandate in that situation. However, there are also newly elected members of parliament who are elected to such large parliamentary groups that they do not get any rapporteurship at all. I understand that it is not necessary in some of the quite large parties to start off with the creation of large independent general rapporteurs. Maybe you get a little niche in a corner. And that's fair when you're so many men. It goes without saying that if there are 46, the rapporteur's posts are to be shared, it will be something different. I fully understand if, as a member of some of those parties, you have the profits and have the time to be represented in both a municipal council, a regional council and the Folketing. It provides insight, and it may help to prevent some of the pool tyranny we do in this Parliament, which they are complaining about outside municipal. That's some of the things I've experienced in here myself. It is often the local politicians who are good at pointing out that this is not an appropriate way of doing things, because they know the reality when it comes to administration. I don't think we should be judging what's right. It must be the individual party that must draw a conclusion on what they allow in themselves, and in the end it must be the individual chooser who makes up for himself what is most important. It may be that you choose to say that you can live with the fact that your MP misses a meeting every once in a while on the city council, because it in turn gives this double insight. In fact, I think that is valuable enough to justify the fact that sometimes we may have to cancel the meeting. I cannot help but ask: what else is there that you are not allowed to do while you are a member of parliament? Can't you write books? Some members of parliament do. I don't understand how they get the time, but some people do. Can't you join the dance party? Some members of parliament have also been. There are members who have their own business that gain experience from it. You can't do that, can you? Where do we set the line? I can see that some of my colleagues, who often have to report from evening to afternoon debates and to afternoon meetings, are the ones who have small children. That is quite natural, because there are sometimes some children to be picked up from day to day, etc. There are just different conditions that affect us, and it must ultimately be up to the voters to draw the final conclusion. Then I cannot help but wonder why this motion for a resolution is being tabled by the SF. I hope that the authors of the motion will correct me if I am wrong about what I am saying now, but I remember that Mr. Ole Sohn was a member of that party from 1998 until 2014. In 10 of those years he was the publisher and published, I don't know how many books. It is impressive that you think it is okay for a member to have such a big business next door, but you do not think that members of the large parties can manage to have a municipal office, for example. I'm only using this example to show that this isn't so simple; that there may be many other things in it. I think that the example of the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur on the harvest and the farmer was also quite comprehensive. So we will not be backing this resolution by the Conservative People's Party, but will leave it up to the parties and ultimately to the electorate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208161938	No one has asked for short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. We shall now turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208161948	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for the debate. I'd like to tell you that I didn't come up with this proposal myself. Nevertheless, I am actually very proud to present it on behalf of new young municipal councillors who have raised this debate in connection with the recent municipal elections. They say: Stop now, members of parliament, with your double mandates, for this is affecting the important work of the city councils and the regions. I think it is fair enough to ask the question: can it really be true that you can fit two elected posts, one of which is at least full-time? And studies show that it is at least painfully difficult. Members of Parliament, who also have to hold a job in either a local council or a regional council, must more often cancel meetings of either the city council or the regional council or the parliament, and I had almost said: of course. Since the municipal reform, the tasks of elected councillors and regional councillors have almost doubled and averaged 20 hours a week, i.e. on average. And many experience how they have to free themselves from civilian jobs to take care of the work of the city council or the Regional Council. It is not possible to free oneself from one's duties in the Folketing, and unlike the municipal council colleagues in civilian jobs, it is therefore not necessary to use the remuneration for free purchase when the work of the city council collides with the civilian job or with other duties. In fact, it often puts members of parliament as some of the best paid in the municipal council. I recognise, of course, that there is also a difference in the workload of members of parliament. It goes without saying that if you are a member of a large party, you have fewer rapporteurs than if you are a member of a small party. That's the way it is. But it also means that Members of Parliament, who have many rapporteurs, will have to cancel even more meetings than Members of Parliament who have fewer rapporteurs. Like a lot of other members of parliament, I am a jyde myself, and it goes without saying that the relatively long journey between my municipality of residence and Christiansborg would also be of great importance to my attendance if I were to do both a local job and my duties as a member of the parliament. Yeah, actually, it would be close to an impossible task. Both the different sizes of the parties and the different distance between municipalities and Christiansborg also mean that we each have very different opportunities and conditions in terms of representation both locally and centrally. In fact, the differences are so great that one might quite rightly claim that they are directly creating inequality. But it is not just about the length of transport and money; it is also about democracy, as Enhedslisten also mentioned. Perhaps one might say: spread democracy out on some more; it would hardly harm anyone. Local democracy offers local citizens good opportunities to influence everyday life in the municipalities. It is also local that you relate to whether it is now wise what you decide inside Christiansborg. I would have liked to say that it is almost bordering on centralism if politicians in parliament also carry out local municipal work. I am listening to the fact that, unfortunately, there is no support for the proposal, but I hope that the proposal will provide a basis for good democratic reflection on the way in which we are going to solve the political work in the future. And at least I hope that the debate which the young new members of the municipal council have raised can also echo here in the Folketing, because perhaps it was a good idea for us to spread the work out on a number of occasions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208162344	There is a wish for a few brief comments. The first is for Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208162349	Thank you. I would really like to hear the rapporteur's response to what I brought up about being the publisher and being a member of the parliament for a ten-year period, I think it was. Why is it more legitimate to carry out both these tasks than to have two political tasks at once? Then I would like to ask Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen what she said earlier, namely that if, for example, you have a debate about equalisation, you can be in a situation where you care about your local interests. Such a conflict of interest may arise. But for me, it's just a fundamental break with the whole thinking about the way our electoral system is screwed up. For our electoral system is precisely linked in a way in which we each represent different parts of the country. I dare say that I am proud to represent Nordsjælland in the Folketing, and I can also reveal that when we discuss compensation, I will represent the voters who voted for me. That is why we have the electoral system that we have in Denmark, which is locally based and which is weighted between the parts of the country. It is precisely on the assumption that we are local representatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208162458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208162501	In fact, in relation to the question of being the publisher, I believe that there is a huge difference between whether you are a parliamentary politician and a municipal councillor and paid for it, or whether you have a civilian, private office next door. I can guarantee that you will find it very difficult to do a public job without being paid, if it is the case that you also have to do something else at the same time. This is what the members of the municipal council also see very often. Now I used the compensatory reform as an example, but there could also be a great many other examples, I think, where there might be conflicts of interest, because local democracy is precisely about implementing the decisions that we sit and take in here. And it is also a task for local democracy to take stock of whether what we are talking about in here works and what feedback we need in here. And in relation to the fact that we have just distributed power between regions and municipalities and then the Folketing, I think it is actually a good interplay, and I think it actually works quite sensibly. But it may not necessarily make sense that it is the same people who go back, because then at least you will not get the co-playing discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208162622	Mrs. Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208162626	The proposal requires that, if you have two duties, you have a duty to carry out two tasks. I assume that is why the proposer has asked several rapporteurs whether they have had to report to meetings because there have been other commitments. I find it difficult to imagine that one can be the publisher for a 10-year period without at any time going beyond one's parliamentary work in the Folketing. So I find it very difficult to see why that logic should not also apply, regardless of the fact that it is a private job and not another public office. It was just a comment on which I would like to hear a reflection, and not a real question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208162704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208162706	I think I have actually answered Mrs Abildgaard's question. In fact, I believe that these are two very different things we are talking about. So here we are really talking about our democratic system, where we have chosen to have as decentralized a structure as possible. In other words, there are some politicians who have to decide what is going to happen locally and what we have to do centrally and what we have to do about decisions that must apply to the whole country. However, the proposal is a good one, and I agree with this first of all on the basis of the study, which shows that it is quite difficult to carry out several different tasks at once in a sensible way and in a satisfactory way for the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208162751	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208162754	Thank you. It is something of an accusation that you make, i.e. that an investigation shows that you have far more difficulty with it. But what also made me stand up is that the proposers also say that people with double mandates are far more absent, and that is so implied than other municipal politicians. I would like to ask for proof that people with double mandates far more often have absences than other municipal politicians with a different profession, farmer or self-employed or something else. Is there that documentation? Because I'm not familiar with it. I just want to know if it exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208162838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208162839	However, the proposal is based on the studies carried out by KORA and VIVE, which show that it is really difficult to carry out more tasks at once. In fact, I think that the rapporteur himself explained this well earlier in the debate, namely that in Fredericia it has been necessary to plan this so that Mrs Susanne Eilersen could hold meetings on Monday, while, of course, it also has an impact on what can then be planned in relation to the other council members. So, of course, it has consequences when it comes to taking into account a full-time public office, while at the same time also having to run a local municipal board office.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208162923	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208162925	The rapporteur did not reply to what I was asking, namely whether there was evidence that there was more absence with a double mandate. I'd like that to be found when you keep using the rhetoric in it. Then I can tell you that you didn't have to, but that it was actually a wish to keep me on the council that made that constellation. The rapporteur has a great deal to say about the fact that only a few people are being made to stand up, that this is not being spread out on a number of people. It is the case when you run for a city council that not everyone is elected. After all, it is the voters who could have chosen something else, and we must respect the choice that the electorate has made. At least on our list, there was a lot that wasn't elected. You could have been elected, even though I was also on the list, I might even have drawn some.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208163017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208163019	Yeah, and I think it's in itself a matter of taste. It is true that it is up to the individual parties to choose to run, but it is no secret that being exposed both as a parliamentary politician and also as a municipal councillor in general, also in relation to others who would like to have elections. In relation to absenteeism and not absenteeism, I refer to the studies referred to in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208163049	There are no more questions, I see, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180208163106	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 9 February 2018, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
