ParlaMint-DK_20180530080007	The meeting is open. There are today the following announcements: From members of the Folketing Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen (S) and Rasmus Horn Langhoff (S), who are on leave, I have received notification that from 1 June 2018 they will again be able to meet in Tinget. Per Husteds (S) and Kasper Rougs (S) as temporary members of the Folketing shall cease to exist from that date. From a member of the Folketing Trine Bramsen (S), who is on leave, I have received notification that from 2 June 2018 she can again meet at the Tinget. Carsten Hansens (S) shall cease to be a member of the Folketing as from that date. From a member of the Danish Parliament Finn Sørensen (EL), who is on leave, I have received notification that from 4 June 2018 he can again meet in Tinget. Mr Jette Gottliebs (EL) shall cease to be a member of the Folketing as from that date. From a member of the Folketing Lotte Rod (RV), who is on leave, I have been informed that from 1 August 2018 onwards she can again meet in Tinget. Marlene Borst Hansen (RV) shall cease to be a member of the Folketing as from that date. Then there's no more of that. The closing debate today will be interpreted in sign language so that the deaf can follow the debate. The sign language interpretation can be found directly on the Danish Parliament's website, www.ft.dk, and subsequently on demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530080158	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption is not postponed. We need a justification for this question and I therefore give the floor to Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530080220	It is, of course, a matter of enjoying the few seconds in which we are allowed to speak on behalf of the whole of the Folketing, by all of us, in order to justify why we have called the question. It is, of course, a strong tradition at this time of the parliamentary year that we take stock of the parliamentary year which has passed, and that is why we jointly ask tradition a question to the Prime Minister of the country, asking for an account of both the domestic and foreign policy situation in which Denmark finds itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530080253	Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. The question is therefore justified, and so it is the Prime Minister who has to answer this question, and so I give the floor to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530080309	Good morning. I think we should start with some numbers: 98, 150, 3,500, 9,200, 130,000 and 4 million. Are those just numbers? No, these are some figures that show that politics makes a difference. 98: 98 is the number of municipalities where the employment rate has increased since the parliamentary elections. This is also the number of municipalities we have in Denmark. 150: Over the last two years, the government has provided financial support for the conversion of an area equivalent to 150 football fields per day for organic use. 3.500: This is the number of asylum seekers we received in 2017. That's the lowest number in 9 years. Denmark is no longer one of the EU's most attractive asylum destinations. 9,200 kroner, you could add the prosperity promise that has been in Denmark since the election of the parliament, measured out per year. citizen. 130,000: This is the number of private jobs created in Denmark since the change of government. 4 million: Yes, since the elections, the government has contributed 4 million to the health service. kr. extra a day. Politics makes a difference. Denmark is back in top shape. It gives us the opportunity to shape the future. I want a Denmark that reaches out to the possibilities, giving the enthusiastic winds and the worried new hopes. I will live in a country where older people should not worry about whether there is help if they fall; where all adults who can, have a job, support themselves and theirs and are part of the community; where young people can unfold their talent; where parents can deliver their children in the morning in a secure environment with calm in their stomachs and smile on their lips; and where all children, adults and older people have the opportunity for a freer, a richer and a safer life. It takes everyone to get a good start to life. I'm basically optimistic. I welcome the fact that the vast majority of Danish children and young people take an education and do well. All the more sad it is that it does not apply to everyone. There are children who grow up in families with no surplus to care and who are struggling with a difficult starting point. That is why the government has undertaken a concerted effort for children and young people who are having a difficult time. That is why we have strengthened the country's day offer with special focus on the children who have the most challenges. That is why we have strengthened the primary school with a pool of 0.5 billion. kr., which goes targeted to schools that lift professionally weak pupils. That is why we have improved the transition from primary to secondary education for those young people who need extra support and cleared up incalculable offers, a jungle of offers that meet young people. This is why we have strengthened vocational training, among other things. with a tripartite agreement to provide more internships and by means of new benefit courses and increased incentives for enterprises to set up internships. I would like to take this opportunity to thank both employers and the trade union movement, because it works. Now more people are seeking vocational training. We can be happy about that, and we can be a little proud of that too, but we should not be content with that. That is why we have also presented a proposal on how to obtain more practical elements in the primary school, so that the pupils experience that the teaching also points towards vocational training. And that is why I can say today that in the autumn the government will come up with a new proposal on how to get even more young people to seek and carry out vocational training. Denmark strtters of talent. I see that all the places I come: in Odense, where I met children at the University of Southern Denmark who go to robot in their spare time; to DM in Skills in Herning, where hundreds of young people fought to become Denmark's best in their particular subjects; at Holbæk City School, where skilled and curious children have thrown themselves over natural science; and as recently as Monday, where I had a visit to Marienborg of 5. A from Fjordlandskolen in Frederikssund, because their skilled teacher had promised them a surprise if they took a good move in reading, and they did. We must not fight against developments. We must embrace it and shape it, work together to seize the opportunities, because it is on them that we must live. It is set aside for the Disruption Council, where the government is currently gathering the many good input from companies, trade union movement, entrepreneurs and researchers and many more. This is the reason for the agreement on business and entrepreneurial initiatives that we have concluded with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left with 15 billion. kr. for e.g. a stronger entrepreneurial and stock culture. Thank you to both parties, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, for taking responsibility for this. This is the goal of the new Technology Pact, where the government, companies and education will jointly raise the digital Denmark. This is the starting point for the new shared economy agreement, which can improve both the environment, the private economy and the economy. And with the agreement, we now also manage the tax payment so that we can use modern business ideas when they are shaped according to the Danish model. Basically, this is also the starting point for the tax cuts we have given to the citizens of Denmark, so that it is better to work, pay better off to run a business and pay better off to become an entrepreneur. Because we believe in the Danes. We believe that we all have the potential for more and that we all get richer when we get more opportunities. That is why it is not a question of either welfare or tax relief, it is a both-and-a-half. Progress is something we create, and prosperity is a prerequisite for welfare, and I want a secure core welfare. Free education, free hospitals, a social safety net and a dignified care for the elderly, we must be able to deliver that. That's why we need to take care of our public servants. After the summer holidays, the government will present a cohesion reform, including: will look at how we get better managers in the public sector and how public employees will have more freedom and better opportunities to deliver the quality that both the Danes and the employees themselves want. Here, too, we must redeem the potential. At the same time, I think that on the other side of the public contracts we need a very long process which has not yet been completed; we still need a dialogue on what progress may give rise to reflections. Is the system optimal as we know it today? I think that reflection is really needed all around. A public sector is a prerequisite for the proper welfare of citizens. There must be good help not only for those who break a leg, but also for those who stumble in life. We've got the first one pretty well under control, but I'm worried we're gonna be okay lately. The number of Danes with mental disorders is increasing. I'm worried about that. The increase is particularly high among children and adolescents. I am deeply concerned and we have to ask ourselves what it is about whether it is perhaps also the framework we are offering the children who need a diagnosis. There is not a single solution, nor do I believe that there are any more simple solutions, but there must be help for those who lose their grip and an earlier and stronger effort so that the problems do not develop. Since the elections, we have lifted psychiatry, so in 2018 there are some 400 million. kr. More. After the summer break, the government comes up with a comprehensive plan to further strengthen psychiatry. We need that. We will also come up with a comprehensive health reform. About a decade ago, we made the last health reform with free choice, treatment guarantees and super hospitals, and we replaced the counties with regions. Health reform has lifted health care enormously to top three in Europe, according to a Swedish think tank. Now is the time for the next health reform to lift our health services further and set the direction for the next 10 years of improvements, and one of the most important efforts will be to strengthen the close health care system. A lot of things have gotten better. Since I became Minister of Health in 2001, on average an extra doctor and nurse have been employed every day except on Sundays. During the same period, life expectancy has increased by 4 years, and many more Danes now survive cancer. That's good. Now we have to take the next step. Now we need to improve the link between the large hospital and the local medical centre, between what is happening in the highly specialised departments and what is closest to citizens so that patients are not lost in the system. Because we have a health service that works well, you can put it that way station by station, but it still has a problem connecting the stations, and we have to ensure that no patients are lost; we have to create a health service that is connected. At all events, we must ensure that things are linked. I want a better balance between Denmark and social, cultural and geographical. In my New Year's speech, I began the challenge of parallel societies. Fortunately, we do not see the same conditions at home as some other European countries, but we have obvious problems. I have said this before, and I would also like to repeat it here today: most people with a foreign background make a positive contribution to Denmark. Keep doing that! However, although the majority is doing well, too many people are doing badly, and this is, first and foremost, the result of the old-fashioned immigration policy, where more people were allowed in than were able to integrate where too few demands were made. The government has corrected that. Many tightenings, strengthened efforts in the European Union have brought the influx down to the lowest we have seen in 9 years. Does that mean we don't have to do any more? No, that does not mean that, because we must keep an eye on developments all the time, just as we must keep an eye on new developments in the countries around us, because in the future Denmark must also have control of the number of asylum seekers, and this government is a guarantor of that. At the same time, we must use the low asylum rates to restore the balance in our vulnerable residential areas, where young people are forced to marry someone they do not love, where women are considered less worth than men, where too many people with the same problems are lumped together. The government's goals are luminously clear: By 2030, Denmark will be free of ghettos. We have concluded a number of broad agreements: 21 initiatives linked together across 8 ministries. That's good. It's time to go to the door. This requires constant focus, which is why I can now publish the names of the three special representatives who, on behalf of the government, are to ensure momentum and follow-up to the municipalities and to the housing organisations, so that we achieve the objectives we have now broadly decided. It will be former Regional Council President and former chairman of Danske Regionser Bent Hansen, former director of the Danish Employers' Association and former Minister of Employment Jørn Neergaard Larsen and former director of the Danish Industry and Children's Foundation Bolette Christensen. I am pleased that all three have agreed to take on this important task, just as I welcome the support for the government's strategy here in the Folketing. I'd like to sign for that. Thank you. There's not one solution. There are many, and one of the most important is that people who come to Denmark must support themselves when they can. They need a job. I don't want them to be client-made. They have to stand on their own feet. This is why the government has concluded a tripartite agreement with the social partners and a two-party agreement with the municipalities on better integration. Here, too, we have actually moved fence posts. The proportion of refugees who are in employment after three years in Denmark has increased from one in five to more than one in three, and I am very pleased about that because we need it. Thanks to the municipalities, the companies and the trade union movement for taking responsibility. But we're not in the finish line. That is why I have invited you to the integration summit 2.0 at Marienborg next Friday, 8 June, where we will follow up where we left off at the first integration summit. Together with companies, entrepreneurs, municipalities, the trade union movement, experts and volunteers, we must take the next steps forward, because otherwise we risk the urge to shut the world out, grow, and we do not need that. Denmark must be open to those who can and will, for that makes Denmark richer. If we fail to attract skilled foreign employees, we risk Denmark falling behind. That is why I regret that a majority bypassing the government has chosen to raise the limit in the system of amounts and in other ways deliberately made it as troublesome as possible for companies to apply it. That is why I am sorry that only yesterday we once again saw a majority of the people who were opposed to what else was signalled in reverse months ago: to make it a little simpler for people who have a work permit in Denmark, also to side-work. We don't need that. We need the opposite. We need to keep the labour market open for those who can and will. With the government and a majority in parliament, the parliamentary basis of the government, the Danish People's Party, which is on guard that we are not open to those who do not want to, we also have the opportunity to do so. The government will address this with a proposal on foreign labour that is on the move. There must be a proper balance. It is also true for the whole of Denmark that there must be a proper balance. For me, there is not a Greater Denmark and an Outskirts Denmark. For me there is not a blue Denmark, a red Denmark, a green Denmark or a yellow Denmark. In my optics there is only one Denmark, a country in which we grow together and where the progress is to benefit everyone. That is why we have modernised the planning law so that it gives the outermost municipalities more room to create development and jobs and momentum. That is why we have lowered ferry charges, so it is cheaper to get to and from Danish islands. That is why we have extended motorways, increased speed limits and lowered tariffs across Storebælt, and that is why we are implementing the largest relocation of state jobs in recent times • a total of up to 8,000 jobs out of the capital and into the country. At the same time, we are launching the development of the capital with a committee to look at how to strengthen the capital towards 2030. Because we want a real balance, in which we promise in groups, where everyone gets a share in the progress, where we strengthen the community and where we have the profits to rejoice on behalf of each other. The latter applies to the whole kingdom, including our North Atlantic family. I want a kingdom community that benefits the people both in the Faroe Islands, in Greenland and in Denmark. Three countries, three unique countries that share history, friendships and family ties. A community with room for diversity and where we help each other. We even had a very thorough debate on the Kingdom community last Friday. I do not want to repeat the points here today, but thank you for a good debate. Next month I will meet with the lagman and the chairman of the national government for the annual meeting of the Kingdom, this time in the Faroe Islands. I look forward very much to a reunion with the islands, magnificent and homely at one and the same time, and I look forward, above all, to discussing the issues on which we are all concerned. Freer, richer, safer. That is our goal for Denmark, and that is our goal for future generations. It has been said that the next generation is the first to truly experience climate change and the last generation to stop them. But we can't wait or bet on that. Our generation itself must act, and we must do so. I want Denmark to continue to be a green forerunner. I really think we all want that. That is why, over the past many years, we have concluded broad energy agreements which have lifted Denmark. In 13 out of the 17 years where my own party has held the Prime Minister's post, but also in the intermediate 3 1⁄2 years when the Social Democratic Party had it, we have lifted Denmark and made Denmark green. I welcome this, just as I welcome the support for the government's ambition, which is that at least 50%. energy consumption by 2030 shall come from renewable energy. Why have we set that goal? Yes, we do, because we want to take the next important step in the green transition, show the world and, perhaps, show the big countries in particular that green conversion is possible. So how do we do it best? Yes, we do not do that by saying that more green energy can pay off. We do that by showing it. By making green energy cheaper and more competitive. That is why we have come up with an energy initiative in which we both invest in the largest offshore wind farm in Danish history, set aside a further 0.5 billion. kr. Annually from 2025 to more sea wind or other green solutions, while lowering the electricity tax and the electric heating tax, it makes it cheaper to be a Dane and more attractive to use green power. Because in this way we are not just saying that the green is worthwhile. We'll show it. It is landmark, both at home and abroad. In addition, we have taken the initiative of what we call P4G, Green Growth for the Global Goals or translated into good Danish: green growth and world goals. It is an initiative that we have put in the lake by Denmark to deliver at the UN's global goals and at the Paris climate agreement, and after the summer break, the government will launch a climate plan that will draw in an even greener direction. I hope that we can once again have a broad agreement on the energy policy of the future, because Denmark needs that. I understand that there are others who do not want to use the room for manoeuvre for the green transition in the energy negotiations, but only use the room for manoeuvre for other forms of public consumption. To this I must say that this is a view which, in my view, is completely incompatible with the alleged higher green ambitions of the opposition. Does this mean that you want to relax your ambitions because you do not want to finance them, or does it mean that you want to find the money somewhere else, and where is it? I look very much forward to getting much smarter on that during the day. The government wants a high level of ambition, and we have made a broad political agreement in which we have phased out the PSP, which means that the green transition must now be given priority in the Finance Act in line with everything else, but then someone suddenly resigns and says that it should not be a priority but obviously a priority. I hope that we can reach an agreement before the summer recess, because I think that this matter is too important to be hit by political gambling, and time is short. Our business community, the Danes, the outside world need clear Danish message. For Denmark, this can also be the case in the world. I want a Denmark where we drop the idea that we always know the best ourselves, is best and do not need input from outside, i.e. what may sometimes almost turn into megalomania. It doesn't suit us. But the reverse, the inferiority complex, that is, the idea that we are still too small to make a difference, and therefore just have to tuck in as long as we can, neither do we dress. Of course we should not put ourselves down, because we can and must pull Denmark in the right direction, we must step the path, especially in a situation where someone starts to step next to it. When others show deficits, we have to show surpluses. We are doing this by keeping foreign aid at 0.7%. as one of only five countries in the world, and that is at a time when others are cutting back. We have done this as President of the Council of Europe with a Copenhagen Declaration, stating, among other things, that the responsibility for respecting human rights lies with individual countries and that we have made it clear that those who openly and systematically do not respect human rights will be hit more quickly and harder. You can count on us. We, Denmark, make a difference, and we must do so in a world that changes. This applies to Russia, which is increasingly aggressive, China, which is filling ever more economically and politically, Turkey, which is turning its back on European values, a Middle East in which conflicts and poverty are sending people to flee, towards the dream of a better life, and a country of the USA that is now dreaming of less free trade, dreaming of more of itself, fewer international obligations, more sanctions. These are indeed, and to put it mildly, new times, and the question is therefore where we best look after our interests. For me, the arrow points to one place: Europe! We're a small open economy, and about 60%. of our goods exports go to the internal market, so Denmark needs Europe, and Europe needs Denmark, as does the rest of the world. It is about a strong Europe that has both the will and gravity to take the lead and show the way, yes, excuse me, to be the adult in the class. For 45 years we have benefited from the European Community and we are approaching a golden wedding. This year we are celebrating the silver wedding for the internal market • the internal market, which gives a LO couple in owner-occupied housing a direct annual extra income of DKK 65,000 and upon which hundreds of thousands of Danish jobs depend. Yet at home we tend to hide the European out of the way and only dust it off when we have to vote 'yes' or 'no' to something. You might ask yourself why we put it like that. At the same time, some myth has crept into the debate: why should the EU decide this? You can hear someone say. I would like to say that I certainly do not agree with everything that comes out of the EU's decision-making process, certainly not, just as we do not agree on everything here in the Folketing. However, we must be careful not always to blame the European Union when something does not go our way. The European Union is not a state, and should never be, if you ask me: the European Union is a cooperation between independent countries which jointly make agreements, and in cooperation between 28 countries it is a joint responsibility to reach compromises and to make difficult decisions, also in areas where we do not see things the same. Let us begin to talk Denmark up, Europe up, let us start to stand a little more clearly on the continent and the cooperation we are part of and discuss Europe without a referendum on the horizon. I think that'll be good. Denmark can make a difference, and we are doing so I saw when I visited the Danish soldiers a few weeks ago at NATO's force in Kosovo. This is an area in which, soon after 20 years of Europe's last civil war, peacekeeping forces are still needed. It delivers Denmark, and we can be proud of that. I'm proud of that. Thank you to our mission in Kosovo, and thank you to all our missions around the world, whether they wear a uniform or not. You make Denmark proud. At the same time, we must remember that a freer, richer and more secure Denmark does not come by itself. That is why we have made a defence agreement with a substantial boost to defence, which is why we have created a strategy for cyber- and information security, which is why we have not only Danish soldiers in Kosovo, but we have also deployed Danish soldiers for NATO's advanced presence in Estonia, skilled people, whom I have had the pleasure of visiting myself. We take responsibility. We are making a difference, and we must continue to do so, because it is in our own interests. Freer, richer and safer • That's the story of Denmark since the election. But it is no natural law, for progress only comes if we fight for it, and the government does so day by day, and together with you we want to redeem Denmark's full potential. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all parties in this Chamber for their good cooperation during the year. From the opening debate in October to the closing debate today, we have reached 57 political agreements. This corresponds to more than one per week, and by far, the vast majority have been concluded by a broad majority across the middle. Politics makes a difference. We do not always have the same starting point, but together we get Denmark forward; it applies in here, and it applies throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530083640	Thank you, Prime Minister. And if a simple desire for questions sneaked in, it must wait until later in the day. We are starting the debate. And it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who is allowed to start. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530083707	Well, when I was about to write my speech for today and take stock of another parliamentary year, I remembered a good story: the story of Don Quixote. I'm sure there's a lot of people who remember the name, but what's the story about? Don Quixote is such a de facto nobleman. He has sat in his study room and read incredibly many good knight novels. Now he wants to go out on adventure himself. His faithful squire, Sancho, is a little reluctant to follow his ass. Time and again he tries to talk Don Quixote out of his mysterious whims. At one point, while riding, Don Quixote sees 40 fighting arms as long as wings on a windmill, and he thinks that now the battle must stand. He lowers his lance and puts in full gallop against the enemy. With a full bang, he goes into the first giant and is thrown out of the saddle. Sancho is not so surprised by Don Quixote's defeat. He has tried to warn him that he is probably seeing visions; it is not at all struggling, he is trying to fight, it is windmills. And look, the only thing more absurd than fighting windmills because you think they're fighting is fighting windmills when you know very well that it's windmills you fight against. Of course, you've already guessed why I've come to think of this good old story. Now, of course, it would be a bit nasty to compare the Prime Minister with Don Quixote, but the Prime Minister is knighted, seen on a horse up to several times and happy to fight against windmills, literally, unfortunately. In the past, the government has tried to cancel the planned offshore wind turbines at the North Sea. Approx. 6,000 jobs were at risk, the green transition would be put back, the insecurity began to spread in Danish business. Was Denmark even a good country to invest in? Together with the SF and the Radical Left, we managed to preserve coastal offshore wind turbines. On the whole, it has to be said that we have spent a parliamentary year preventing the government from pursuing its own policy, and it has actually gone quite well, not least thanks to our cooperation with the Danish People's Party and with strong support from the friends in the red block. The tenants in the general housing sector can be happy that they can be happy with the hardest jobs, those most worn out in our labour market. The policy pursued in Denmark right now is best when the government comes into the minority. And that is how we must work in the present Parliament. It is going for a while, but it would be better for Denmark, for the cohesion, for our welfare society, for the public employees, for all those who lack education, for the green transition, if we could spend our mandates and our time developing Denmark instead. Environment and climate change already have serious consequences. And we must make them worse. Flooding in some places, drought, hunger, the forest fires, it's an increasingly wilder and unpredictable weather. Every year more than 3,000 Danes die early because of air pollution, not least here in Copenhagen. There will be fewer and fewer of the animals we sing about for our children when we sing bedtime songs. Just take the larch population, which is halved in 40 years. The hare is now an endangered species in Denmark and nearly 3 million birds have disappeared. Development doesn't turn itself around. That's our job. And we must pass on a sustainable world to the next generations. It is not only the right thing to do, it is also the wise thing to do. The market for green solutions and new technologies will grow explosively in the coming years. Future growth and jobs are turning green, yes, that is actually already the case today. To achieve the objectives of the Paris climate agreement, the countries of the world must invest 90,000 billion. kr. over the next 12 years 40 times Denmark's GDP. Today, Denmark has a leading position, but we will lose that leading position if we in the Danish Parliament do not have the ability to set new goals and new visions. That is why the Social Democratic Party has presented an overall climate and environmental issue. I cannot get around all the different proposals, but I have three points of impact. Firstly, Denmark must be independent of fossil fuels as early as 2045. We want 500,000 green cars, electricity, hydrogen and hybrid, a green research billion and three new offshore wind farms. Secondly, Denmark must create a global green future fund. That fund must find the answers to the biggest and most difficult questions, the questions that the whole world is asking about. How do we feed a growing world population without straining our climate? And how do we produce enough green energy so that growth doesn't destroy our planet? The future fund will be one of the world's biggest investments in sustainable solutions. Thirdly, Denmark must be cleaner and healthier. We propose a significant action against plastic pollution, we will phase out diesel cars, we will have more untouched forests in Denmark and 15 new natural parks where nature can grow wild. It is a great task that we face and it requires political will. The starting point could be better, because the government has chosen to cut back on energy research, and when the government came in, it scrapped the targets of phasing out coal and reducing CO2 Now we have to negotiate a new energy settlement. For us Socialists, energy policy is primarily about getting more clean energy. Because the government's energy policy is mostly about lowering the electricity tax. I hope, of course, that we can reach a broad agreement on energy with more sea turbines, cleaner cars, buildings where the heat does not rush out through leaky windows. In other words, a policy different from that of the government today. Climate and environmental policy is about what we should live on in the future. But it is also about Denmark's security and Denmark's security. Historically many people are on the run, so it will also be in the future, also because of climate change from war, from strife and from poverty. There is no indication that the large migratory currents will decrease. The asylum system has de facto collapsed. It cannot cope with the pressure, we already know that. We also know that we cannot help everyone, either in Denmark or in Europe, but we still have to help more people in the world. How do we help best? The Social Democratic Party has put forward a proposal for a comprehensive foreign policy. We propose, among other things, that Denmark should set up a reception centre outside Europe. Asylum seekers seeking asylum at the Danish border must be sent to a reception centre and have their case dealt with there. On the other hand, we must once again take quota refugees from the United Nations. First, the government was against the idea, and then it turned out that the government was already implementing something similar. Together with other European countries, the government examined whether they could establish reception centres for asylum seekers in third countries. Since that discussion we have heard nothing from the government; it's almost four months ago. That is why I put a question to the Prime Minister last Wednesday with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister did not have the opportunity to reply, and so I am asking today: what is the status of this work? Until we get that answer, we need to make integration work better at home. That is why I welcome the agreements we have made to combat parallel societies in Denmark. This is just another example of the fact that foreign policy is firmly established. Within a year, we'll be in an election campaign. We know that the Left will do their utmost to cast doubt on foreign policy. And I wonder if we see a single scaremongering or two. Let me conclude, therefore, by saying briefly: if the Danes entrust us with the responsibility, a new social democratic government will be able to do two things: firstly, maintain the tight immigration policy anchored in a broad majority here in the Folketing and secondly, lead a fairer and greener welfare policy together with those parties which, like us, want a new direction for Denmark. Then I must read out a proposal for adoption from the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten and Socialist People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government has turned down Denmark's green ambitions to the detriment of climate, citizens and business alike. The Folketing instructs the government to take the lead in the EU and conduct an energy and climate and environmental policy that supports the Paris Agreement and the UN's 17 worldwide goals, thereby bringing Denmark back on an ambitious path through broad political reconciliation. The Folketing urges the government to change course so that Denmark can once again become a green major power. This requires, among other things, that: more offshore wind farms, an ambitious target for energy efficiency improvement, the deployment of electric cars, more funds for energy research, the conversion of at least half of all state forests to untouched forests, increased control of plastic pollution, priority for clean drinking water and more large and coherent natural areas supporting biodiversity. The Danish Parliament notes that the green transition needs ambitious and long-term framework conditions so that in the future we will have more green jobs in Denmark. The Folketing also instructs the government to reduce inequality and combat poverty. • V 70).
ParlaMint-DK_20180530084748	Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Then we have a long list of Members who would like to ask the Socialist leader, and that takes time. There are 45 minutes allocated, and I would just like to mention that we have some speaking time in this Chamber. Just to remind you, there is one minute to the first question, and the next is the hardest, namely that there is only 1⁄2 minute to question two. It may well be that trying to keep the speaking time on my part is completely like fighting against windmills, but I have mentioned it anyway. The first question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530084829	Thank you. It is always sad to have to start under such admonition, but I shall try to stay within the allotted speaking time anyway. I think, of course, and it cannot surprise anyone that some of what Mrs Mette Frederiksen mentioned, which is really interesting, is the view here about stopping the possibility of seeking asylum directly in Denmark, but instead being obliged to come and deal with her case, if necessary, in a centre, for example, in North Africa. I think, of course, like Mrs Mette Frederiksen, that it would be interesting that during the day too, perhaps when he prepares his reply later in the day, the Prime Minister will address that particular question. What I would like to hear Mrs Mette Frederiksen about earlier is, of course, a little more about how the Social Democrats think that in practice it will be possible to do so, how we can get on with it, and also whether we should not, until it is clear, start with one part of it, namely that we cannot then, after having transported through 6-7 safe countries, seek asylum in Denmark. Because that's where we could start. We can manage that ourselves before we have the support of other countries too, if necessary, to have a centre in North Africa, for example, to which people can then be referred.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530084939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530084941	Thank you for the question. I think this is the only viable way for Europe. In my view, it is absolutely untenable that so many people risk their lives when they cross the Mediterranean, and before that many have crossed the Sahara Desert and have by other means reached what is then the promised coast. So many lives are being lost and so many children are being attacked and women are no longer able to claim that it is humane to maintain the refugee system we have today. That is why we have to move Europe's border, so to speak, from the north of the Mediterranean to the south of the Mediterranean, so that the refugees who have a need for protection are protected, but that it is without having to expose themselves to the perilous course that we are seeing today. At the same time, of course, it is also important for me to stress that we cannot continue to receive as many people in Europe as we have seen in recent years, because integration simply cannot keep up. How, then, are we going to do this in practice, and can I reply to it within the time allowed? I guess I can't. But I think it must be possible, among other things. in cooperation with the United Nations, which already operates quite well-functioning refugee camps, to set up reception centres for which we are, of course, responsible as a country where we can provide the protection we need to provide refugees, but that is to say without seeking spontaneous asylum in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085102	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085104	That would certainly be preferable, and then the question is how to move it from a discussion to a real action. It is clear that it may have a rather long prospect of setting up this whole system together with others, whether it is through the UN system, if it is, it would be quite obvious to do so, but it may well have some time in it before it is a reality. We have border controls now, and that is something we have had a few years. That is a good thing, and I hope we will have that in the future too, and you can use that border control to ask yourself whether it is fair to be able to walk across Europe through 6-7 safe countries where you have not been persecuted and then have the right to drop down in Denmark and say: I would like to apply for asylum in Denmark, by the way. We could start there, but we have an opportunity to say that that possibility should not be present. Well, you don't come directly from a country where you're persecuted and you drop down in Denmark. You get through a lot of other countries before you do. That part is also included in the Social Democrats' proposal, namely that we should no longer be able to apply for asylum directly in Denmark, and I think it is interesting whether we can continue working on that track before perhaps in many years' time we have got the second system in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085216	I would like to take part in this discussion. In addition, there are two things. Firstly, I also welcome the fact that we have a well-functioning border control, and it is quite natural for me that we know who comes into Denmark and what errand you have, because there is part of the crime picture we see today that has to do with people coming from outside. Secondly, I can't believe this is taking so long. It is not because I claim that it is easy, I could not dream of that, but the discussion we have about the refugee situation in Denmark has also been held in other European countries, and it is actually incomprehensible to me that European leaders have not long ago come together and found a way to go. Then there are those who will say: is that completely unrealistic? I wonder if many of you also said so about the refugee agreement concluded with Turkey a few years ago, which is, after all, a very, very important instrument in that we have any idea who is coming to Europe. So I think this can be done. I'm not saying it's easy, but it can be done. This requires political leadership, and that is of course why I am asking questions to the Prime Minister today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085314	Thank you, and then it is Mrs Britt Baker, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085322	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking Mrs Mette Frederiksen for a good speech where there were several things that we in the Left agree with. Among other things: that we still have to be ambitious on the climate and the environment. Having said that, there are, of course, some things that concern me deeply, among others. that we are facing two oppositions today. An opposition consisting of the Social Democracy, the SF and the Enhedslisten, and then an opposition consisting of the Radical Left and the Alternative. And when Mrs Mette Frederiksen then stands and assures us that in the future she will pursue a strict immigration policy, then I am seriously concerned. I am seriously concerned that we will again see that a perhaps future government will hopefully not be relaxed 45 times on foreign policy, just as the previous government did. So how can Mrs Mette Frederiksen stand and give us a guarantee that if social democracy comes to power, there will still be a firm immigration policy without any relaxation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085431	I mean, I feel like when we work together here in the Danish Parliament, and fortunately we are better at that than our reputation says that I also thought the Prime Minister had just said in the end that it must be the case that parties can of course seek influence. But there is no minority that can impose their opinions on the majority. And you've been about to say that in the bourgeois parties, I've had your own experience with that in recent years, and so it must be in the field of foreigners. In other words, the immigration policy being pursued today has the support of about 75%. of the seats here in the Folketing, and at least the same in the population. And I see no sign of heaven at all that it should change after the next parliamentary elections. On the contrary, I believe that, with the still enormous problems of integration and a very, very troubled world, the Danes will also give an unconditional mandate at the next parliamentary elections to conduct an alien policy in which we have control of how many people are coming to Denmark, so that we actually get those who are here integrated as well. And, of course, this will be the case after the next elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085530	Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085533	I'm not worried about where the Danes are in this. I'm worried about where the Social Democracy stands. I am concerned that the Socialists are once again being persuaded by the four parties around them. I'm here with an article in which Mr. Morten Østergaard says that we must have influence on all areas, including foreign policy. Mrs Mette Frederiksen is facing a huge problem. How does Mrs Mette Frederiksen intend to solve this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085605	I really think that the answer is self-evident because the logic of the mandates is the only law that cannot be repealed at Christiansborg. That is how it is today in the Danish Parliament, and that is how it should be after a parliamentary election. The Danes have spoken clearly when it comes to the area of foreigners, and I am entirely in line with the Danes in this matter. Too many people have come to Denmark with a non-Western background that we have not been able to integrate. Today we see huge integration challenges with a lack of language skills, too high unemployment, too high crime and the growth of parallel societies. There is no need to relax foreign policy when we have not even been able to integrate those who have come here. The policy of social democracy is clear. The Danes must speak at the next elections, and if, after the elections, there is still such a massive majority behind foreign policy as there is today, and I think there is, I cannot imagine otherwise, it is the one that stands firm. And, by the way, that is what we want to work for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085701	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085705	Thank you for that and thank you for a speech of which I agree with some of it. That's the way it has to be. There are two agreements to which I would like Mrs Mette Frederiksen's comments. The Social Democrats, together with the government and the Danish People's Party and some other parties, have made several agreements about what is now called parallel societies, which were formerly called ghettos, but in reality are just vulnerable residential areas. Two of the agreements are about or threaten to send families of children into further poverty by taking the children's check off them. It is something of compulsion in day care institutions, or if the children have too much absenteeism. If you ask the experts, if you ask the teachers' union, BUPL, if you ask the Children's Terms, they all say that coercion is not the way forward, that it is not going to benefit the children, that it is bad for parental cooperation, it is absolutely essential. Moreover, vulnerable families who do not have the ability to have their children in school or do not send their children to day care do not get it any easier if they get less money between their hands. I also think that the Socialists tend to say that we should not punish children through their parents, and among other things. That is why we have agreed to oppose the ceiling on cash aid, we have fought against child poverty, and now we have agreements here where the Socialists punish children through their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530085834	I would like to say that I have always been opposed to leaving the children's check when parents do not live up to their parenting ability, because then I would rather have discovered why the parenting ability is not there. And if it isn't there, then it's kind of better for me to remove the children from the family, because there are some families who don't manage to give their children the conditions of upbringing they should. If we end up making this deal anyway, and I think it's a good deal we've made, it's because today's challenges are so great that we're forced to find new answers. There are so many, especially boys, with non-western backgrounds leaving our school as what is called functional illiterates; they cannot read, write and count, and some of them have such poor knowledge that they cannot complete a youth education. When you stand today as a young person with a non-Western background and without having basic skills in place, without a youth education, you will have a difficult life in Denmark, because the demands on the labour market have only increased. That's why we're gonna have to turn this around. There I have to say that I believe that some of what is crucial is that the smallest children go to crèche, because we can see that if the child does not go to crèche and does not go to kindergarten and starts in kindergarten without being able to speak Danish and without having the conceptual world that is the basis for much learning in the Danish school system, then they are so much behind on points that you can almost write their life story in advance, and I do not want to do that, because it is so unfair. That's why we're gonna have the kids in crèche and kindergarten. We ourselves had put forward a proposal that all children should be written up for crèche, but we could not get a majority for that, so this is the political agreement we have been able to make and I think it will work for those children.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090008	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090012	Frankly, I think it's a little thin to hope that it just works and that you won't get into taking the children's check from some families. Firstly, the experts say that it probably does not, and that this is a bad idea, by the way. Secondly, Mrs Mette Frederiksen does not answer the question of the consequences for children who are not sent by parents to day care centres and where parents, with the social problems they have, are unable to get children to school when the children's check goes. Then you punish the children through the parents, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen has always opposed that. I know that Mrs Mette Frederiksen knows very well what the consequences of just one year of child poverty are, because it is that all the chances that Mrs Mette Frederiksen is standing and talking about she wants to give these children are getting worse. Just one year in child poverty, the educational chances are worse, so the chances of life are worse. But that is what you are looking to be willing to risk for something that you think works, contrary to what all experts and child organisations say.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090118	Firstly, we have tried so many initiatives over the past 30 years, some of which have worked, while many have not. We and I cannot keep watching that we send one child after another with a non-western background in this society into nothing, because we are not able to compensate for the problems that are at home. That's why we're gonna have to re-saddle. This could also mean that parents who crave to hold on to either a distance from Danish society for some, massive social problems for some or, in the case of others, a desire for mother to be at home with the smallest children, have challenged their thinking. If there are such massive social problems that parents are not able to follow the child, then there must be a social effort, and if necessary that the child should not be in that family at all. That is why we also have to ask what the alternative is, because the alternative is not to continue, as we have been doing for many years. The social inequalities in Denmark have had an ethnic overhang, and my assessment is that we have quite a few years to get this right.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090226	Thank you. Next is Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090228	Thank you. And also thanks from the Liberal Alliance for a fine rapporteur speech. There are quite well-known disagreements in the red block when it comes to foreign policy, and that is why it was a completely relevant question that Mrs Britt Baker asked, namely: what can you really expect from the foreign policy course, should Mette Frederiksen take over government after the next elections? What can you really count on? Because there are well-known differences, so I think that is a legitimate question. The answer that Mrs Mette Frederiksen gave was something like the logic of the mandates and the broader cooperation in the Parliament and I interpret that as meaning that the policy of foreigners is to be conducted with a blue block. That must be what it means. I see the President is nodding. I just have to understand it quite correctly: does this mean that Mrs Mette Frederiksen has an agreement with the Radical Left, with the Enhedslisten, with the alternative that if Mrs Mette Frederiksen should become Prime Minister, they will have no influence on the policy of foreigners, because that is what they are doing with the blue block?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090332	Well, this isn't a question of whether parties can seek influence or not. All parties in the Folketing can. If we engage in broad negotiations, we usually find each other, but if we do not have a desire to support the policy of foreigners, then I do not think we are going into the negotiating room at all. And yes, we'll have to do it over the middle, exactly as we do today. When we talk about disagreements, because there are disagreements in the area of foreigners in the red bloc, and I am glad that the Social Democratic Party is where the Social Democracy stands, because that is where the Danes are, I want to hear: how is it really going in the blue block? Do you agree on tax policy? Do you agree on EU policy? Do you agree on economic policy? Well, it's amazing that you two are nodding you disagree on later withdrawal, you disagree on top tax concessions, you disagree on the re-priority contribution. So yes, there are disagreements in the red block and there are disagreements in the blue block. Therefore, cooperation across the centre of some key policy areas can at least be part of the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090432	In other words, I interpret the rapporteur's answer as saying that we must be reassured that in a possible new red majority the other red parties are quite clear about not having any influence on foreign policy. It will be exciting to hear them about it later today, fortunately we will have the opportunity to do so. I would like to use my second question to ask something quite different, namely about Mrs Mette Frederiksen's view of free schools, because there have been rather boring reports, I think, and we in the Liberal Alliance, over the last year from the Social Democratic Party, when it comes to free schools. Point 1: You want to lower the coupling rate, that is, it will be more expensive for the individual family to send your child to free school. Paragraph 2: One has a strange objective that it should only be 10%. of the school pupils, who may be allowed to attend a free school, where today it is almost 20 per cent who go there. So my question is really: who are the about 40,000 school pupils who have chosen an alternative to primary school today, who have chosen a free school? There can be many good reasons for that which must then be forced back into primary school? Who isn't supposed to have the free choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090541	There are three things I would like to say about the free schools. First of all, it is good that we have them • it is part of the Danish school tradition. Secondly, they need to assume greater social responsibility and integration responsibility. It is untenable that today we have primary schools where 90%, up to 100%, of children have non-western backgrounds or, at least, immigrant backgrounds, and then we have free and private schools where the proportion of children with minority backgrounds is negligible. I think that all schools in Denmark should be required to take responsibility so that we can make integration work. Thirdly, the Liberal Alliance has won a victory by increasing the amount of money allocated to free and private schools, while at the same time pursuing an economic policy that puts the primary school under pressure in many places. Of course, this is untenable. It is of course untenable, because it is fine that families can choose, but it is not good to pursue a policy that deliberately undermines the ability of the primary school to be a good primary school, while at the same time favouring some other schools, and we have said so from the outset. Those are the three things I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090637	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090638	Thank you for that, and thank you for a very fine speech... a fine green speech. We are very pleased in the alternative that the Socialists have chosen such a strong green focus. I also hope that this is something we will be talking about very much in this Chamber today. That is why I also have a few green questions. Mrs Mette Frederiksen said that Denmark has a leading position and that we must maintain it. It's like we're losing it. In fact, we have already lost it in some areas. Among other things: At least four countries in the world, Costa Rica, France, Belize and Ireland, have already banned national fossil fuel production. This means that they have simply prohibited drilling for oil, both at sea and on land, in their countries. This is one of the things we would like to do in Denmark as well. So where does Social Democracy stand exactly there? Does the Social Democrats agree with us in the alternative that we in Denmark should also go to a complete ban on the production of oil, not only on land, as we have, but also at sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090738	I believe that we agree very much on the green transition: the need for Denmark to put its ambitions higher, that we use our mandates here in the Folketing to take the next steps and that it is urgent. After all, we have made it very clear that we want Denmark to be independent of fossil fuels by 2045. We then advance the time of 5 years in relation to what has been the goal in the past. This is what we assess can be done when, at the same time, we need all things to be concerned with a higher unit, including our production in the country, our business sector, which is also important in the green transition. So to make a long story short: that is what our goal is. I think the alternative would like to do so even earlier. We have not seen a credible answer to that, without it having an excessive cost compared with the Danish business community, but it is at least here that we stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090842	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090843	Thank you. Another thing that we know contributes a lot to CO2 If we are to take the green transition seriously at all, then we also have to look at this area. We have proposed, among other things. a climate tax on beef and meatless days or green days in public institutions, which also affects consumers. I think that in some way we are also where we all have to say: yes, it is a political responsibility; it is also a consumer responsibility to contribute to the green transition, and it may well be that we all have to eat a steak less. Among other things: Could it be a CO2 2 Where do the Social Democrats stand there? Does the Social Democrats agree with us that we also have to dare to talk about the individual consumer also having to take responsibility for the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530090946	Apart from the fact that it would be incredibly painful for me to have to do without meat, and it is the easier for the questioner, who is a vegetarian, to have this discussion, I have to say, and that is of course absolutely the most important thing that I simply think this will hit everything, far too socially wrong. If you're sitting as a single mother and you're writing the shopping list and you have three boys playing soccer, you're getting a long way on a spaghetti sauce, and I think that's the picture in a lot of families. In my view, making ordinary grocery products more expensive is too socially unfair. So I don't think that's a viable path. But I think we should take responsibility here. Well, it's good that you turn off the water when you brush your teeth and that you as a consumer think about it. I think most Danes would like that, but it is a political responsibility and that is where we can move. That's where we can really move, for example by remodeling our car park so that we don't drive around in diesel and petrol cars, but get more green cars and get more electric buses, get electrified our railroad, take the next big steps. That is where we are really moving, and I hope we can get a majority for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091053	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091055	I always look forward to the final debate, and I go like this and gear up to the day that comes, and the next day you can go for a walk in Kickly, and then you wonder why no one out in the real world has really challenged the fact that you've been sitting in here for 12 hours and debated, so the blood jumps. Now I have listened to the debate here for the first half hour, and I think that is perhaps why. So, Mrs Mette Frederiksen says that it is best for us to prevent the government from pursuing its policy, and all the questions from the government bloc are as follows: how can we prevent Mrs Mette Frederiksen or the majority who might bring her to power from pursuing her policy after election? Meanwhile, the problems of reality remain so unresolved. That's why I have to ask you a question. When Mrs Mette Frederiksen said at the beginning of the parliamentary term to her party at her congress that it should now be the end of symbol politics, proposals for camps in Kenya and immediate stoppages, and then today is pretty much the day to say to Mr. Frederik. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that is what is now needed, so my question is just: Does it stop? We saw the burka ban at the beginning of the year. It was also a DF-inspired proposal that was taken over. Are there any more changes in attitude? What about the paradigm shift, that refugees should not be integrated at all? Is this also something that the Social Democratic Party is considering taking over from the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091217	Well, let's try to start with reality, because it really happened both in reality and in reality that, from the time I gave that congress speech to now, many more people came to Europe than any country could integrate. The countries which were the largest in the battle of Germany, Sweden, are currently facing problems of such a nature that they can barely see a way out for themselves. Fortunately, we were smarter in Denmark because we got tightened up and got changed in some of the legislation. But it can start again. We have a Middle East which is on fire and where there is much heavier evidence of conflict than what we see and which is reasonable in itself: climate change in Africa, population growth, at least as far as my eye, will mean that thousands, millions of Africans will try to get to Europe. That is why the answer is that we need to set up camps in the neighbourhood. It is not symbolic policy; it is a sobering idea, I think, of how we can solve a long-term refugee and migrant crisis that has come to stay. The Burka case is about equality. It is about the fact that I will never support a government, a mindset, a religion that wants to remove one sex from the street picture and does not want the woman to be able to live her life on an equal footing with everyone else. Worrying out the identity of one sex is so far away from what I believe in, about equality and equality. We've been trying to fight the burka in Afghanistan. Now it has come to Denmark, and of course women with a non-western background in Denmark must be able to walk freely on Danish streets.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091412	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091417	After all, this is an integrity view that everyone must share. It was just that when the Folketing opened, I knew only one party, perhaps two, was in favour of it being dealt with by a ban. And before the opening debate was over, it was the view of both the Left and the Social Democrats. I'm just saying, I guess it's not hard to imagine people seeing an attitude slip. Now I asked about the paradigm shift, and I guess I didn't get a real answer to it. But can Mrs Mette Frederiksen think of anyone as feeling that the Social Democratic Party would like to come to power by means of votes from the rest of the opposition and actually pursue a policy inspired by the party that has brought the government we now have into power and that people are therefore left without a feeling that they really have a real choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091506	In fact, I think it is remarkable that it should be problematic that politicians change their views. I myself was elected to the Folketing when I was in the early 20s. It's been almost 20 years. Of course I have changed my mind in some areas. I know the questioner has it too. Recently there was probably a journey into the reality of some of the parallel societies in Denmark. I also heard the Radical Left change their attitude to the gang package, which I very much welcome, because, fortunately, when it comes to foreign policy, there is a broad consensus in the Folketing today. I hope that agreement by year will embrace even more political parties, because I think it is actually important for a country that there is a consensus between the policy pursued and the people. That's where we've come a lot closer than we used to be. But then there are other policy areas too. I assume that I hope, and I would actually like to take the view that the green speech I am making today is much, much closer to the Radical Left than an alleged new green profile of a government that has done all the opposite for the first three years of its reign.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091619	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091623	In the SF, we are a little concerned that we can see that there are more children and young people in this country who are not well. We can see that there are more children and young people in today's institutions, in public schools and in youth education who are disillusioned, and that is a major debate as to what we are doing about it. But some of the things that we know are pushing children right down in crèche and kindergarten are if they cannot have the care they need. It is simply known that children are being pressured if they cannot have the time with the educator they want. A study has been made of BUPL, which shows that three out of four educators are on average alone with 17 children during a day in approx. 56 minutes 17 children to one educator. At any rate, it has led the SF to think that we need to introduce minimum standards, ensuring that there are enough educators out in the country's day care centres so that our children can have the care they need. What does the Social Democratic Party think about that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091724	I am basically thinking that this is an incredibly sympathetic proposal and I agree with what the questioner is raising here. If there is no space, professionalism and economics for the relationship work between adult and child, much of the other thing we are talking about is a thing of the past. And it is precisely in the child's first year that the whole basis for the rest of his life is really being laid. Many educators run too fast, and this has consequences for children; it has consequences for sound levels, it has consequences for stress levels. Of course, this also has consequences for the children's secondary ability to learn to concentrate. Then the question is: What kind of instrument do we believe in most? Is it minimum standards that we have been discussing for many years, or is it fundamental to seek the support of the Danes in pursuing an economic policy in which we can afford to conduct our welfare society in a way that enables the individual municipality to give priority to day care institutions? And that's where I lean to the last model.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091822	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091824	I am, in fact, pleased that we share the recognition that it is important that there are sufficient educators for children in the day institutions. But I don't think it's enough just to leave it to the economy and then hope for improvements. Because if you look at the statistics, you can see that there have been fewer adults for the children over the last 30 years, and it is not just in one municipality; it is on average the case throughout the Danish country that there have simply been fewer adults for the children. In primary school, you have a class ceiling. I assume that the Social Democratic Party agrees with that, and that is because they say that there is simply a limit to how many pupils there should be to one teacher. Why, then, could it not make sense to have a minimum standard that says, in the same way, that there is simply a limit to how many children there must be for one educator if one is to be able to reach all the way around?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530091909	But again I would say that I think the questioner's words make sense and I do not reject anything in advance. At the same time, I have to say that we in the Social Democratic Party are going into real, really great reflection on how we begin to interfere a little less on the part of Christiansborg in all retail management and management in the public sector. In other words, when you look at the public sector today, it is governed in a way that is soon not entirely understandable, with enormous bureaucracy and with incredibly many statutory requirements and on top of that requirement imposed in the individual municipality. That is why I am looking more for ways in which we can ensure, both in terms of content and in particular in terms of economics, that the framework is there. Now, in the Social Democratic Party, we had an exceptionally good municipal election in November, and I want to guarantee here from the platform that there is not one of our mayors and there were many more Social Democratic mayors in the elections who want to cut down on the children's field, on the contrary. And that's why I think it's more about the start of a policy here in this house, and it's gonna be awkward with this government that makes sure there's enough money for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092018	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092020	Thanks for a good speech. It is incredibly gratifying that the Social Democratic Party has been given a tighter policy on foreigners so that we do not receive as many immigrants as will be a burden on Danish society both economically and in terms of inequality, social problems and so on. We at the Conservatives are also very pleased that there has been this change of course. At the other end of the scale, in relation to the immigration of skilled workers, we have a hope that we might be able to lure the Social Democracy to open up to something more of the highly skilled labour that Denmark needs so much. We have record employment at the moment, and everyone from the wise men to the companies says that we need more labour. This taking in highly qualified labour is not something that is being held against the Treasury in any way whatsoever. We have about 6,000 people on the limit, and according to the Ministry of Finance they make a profit to society of approx. 1 billion kr. a year, so it is a huge gain for the Danish economy. That is why it has annoyed us a little that the Social Democratic Party has helped to raise the limit, so that we get less of this big gain from qualified labour. Is there any possibility of a movement by the Social Democratic Party in this area so that we could open up a little more at a time when we are about to have very, very low unemployment and where we really need more foreign contributions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092151	Thank you for the question, which I actually see as being put forward with the very best intentions to ensure that the growth which, fortunately, is being well underway in the Danish economy can be allowed to continue. And yes, we're going to see areas and we're actually doing it now that there's a shortage of skilled labour. The question then is what the best answer to that is. I just want to get one thing in place before the further discussion. If you are a regular, well-functioning Danish company and we have very many of them and need highly specialised labour, then you have very good opportunities to attract that workforce today. There is a fixed track system that I myself introduced when I was Minister for Employment, there is an amount scheme and various other schemes that you can use. That, among other things. along with SF, Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti says that we will not be involved in importing labour from outside, which undermines the Danish labour market. And where I seriously have my concern is, of course, if the limit of the sum goes down so far as to include ordinary skilled workers, because I also feel as a Social Democrat that it must be possible in our society to train our own to contest the jobs that are there. We have a lot of unskilled Danes who have never received an education. If we do not ensure that they receive training, we risk them getting out of the labour market, and I would rather spend time and invest money in them than just repeating something we have done in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092315	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092317	Thank you for your answer. It is not exactly a question of social dumping with a limit of DKK 375 000, like the one we had previously. That's over $30,000. This is a fairly high salary, so it is not the case that you go in and undermine and that low-paid people are deprived of their jobs with that scheme. And the number is quite limited. It is about 6,000 that we currently have on that scheme. I think that if we do not now, in a situation where we have record employment and where, according to the latest economic report, there is a prospect of even higher employment in the years to come, we will never do so. It annoys me a little if the Social Democrats can categorically say that they cannot use the tool which is so great a gain for the Danish economy and which clearly benefits everything that the Social Democrats want in terms of welfare and a richer Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092417	I would just like to say, for the sake of general public education, that every time we have negotiated these arrangements, there was a strong desire from some of the parties in the Folketing to increase the number of foreign workers in Denmark, even when there was a recession and unemployment. So it's not just a business debate I heard it too when we had high unemployment at home. So it should be borne in mind that the questioner and others also the Prime Minister, I can understand asking for, is indeed foreign labour from third countries. There is a completely open European labour market. If I recall correctly, we have some 20 million unemployed Europeans, and I think that it is about one fifth of those who have higher education of some kind. In southern Europe in particular, unemployment is still high. I think, also taught by many years of experience with integration policy in Denmark, that it is easier to recruit labour from the countries of southern Europe into the Danish labour market than it is to continue to apply to India and Bangladesh because it is third countries that we are talking about. In the European labour market we can walk freely, and we can then discuss whether everything that is going on about the free movement of workers is wise, but that is another discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092526	Thank you. The next is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092531	Thank you very much for your speech. As the rapporteur himself said, there will be elections in a year's time. In 2015 Inuit Ataqatigiit went to elections to be Greenland's free voice here in the Folketing. We want to cooperate widely and across all the parties of the Folketing. Now it may be that the rapporteur ends up being Prime Minister after an election, which is why I would like to ask so frankly and curiously about the position of the Social Democratic Party on the future of the Kingdom Community. How will the rapporteur help to renew and develop the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092604	First of all, thank you for the question and congratulations on a successful election campaign in Greenland. I am very fond of the Kingdom community, and that is our starting point when the questioner asks about our position on the Kingdom Community. But I must also say that it is a community of kingdoms which is not written in granite and which should not be. It is a changeable community, and it is precisely a community, I think, between three equals. That's my approach to this question. And there are three equal parties who can have different interests and who can see different things about the Kingdom community. The Kingdom community must be able to handle and accommodate that. I listen very much to not least the discussion in Greenlandic society about how many Greenlanders see the country's own future and have a very, very great understanding of a further desire to be themselves. I am very willing to discuss that, but it is in that order that our starting point is the Kingdom Community as we know it and as we love it, and it must of course be able to accommodate that we can look at it differently and take the discussion on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092716	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092718	Thank you very much for those comments. It is true that I know that the rapporteur has already spoken in a book, Martin Breum's book, on this issue of the Commonwealth. I think it is important that we also spend some time renewing the Kingdom community and further developing it in order to preserve it. Inuit Ataqatigiit wants independence, but is also realistic in that it will take a long time before we get there. That is why I think there is a great task in constantly renewing and helping to ensure that we get some positive stories in place of only some negative stories that are very much tied to history. So it's all about looking forward and seeing how you can work together in the future on some positive stories. I hope that the Social Democrats will be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092806	Those are still the wisest words that have been said, so I can only agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092811	The next question is Mr. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092815	Thank you. I would like to ask a few questions about foreign labour, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen also mentioned in an earlier reply. After all, there is a record number of foreigners working in Denmark today, and I understand that the government wants even more foreigners to work in Denmark, and it will then come up with a proposal to attract more foreign labour. My question, then, is whether the Social Democratic Party will stand firm on the issues that the Social Democratic Party has agreed with, among other things. Dansk Folkeparti, e.g. in relation to the greencard system and in relation to the amount scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530092849	The short answer is yes. And then I think we should dwell a little bit at this moment in today's debate, because it must be a little too bad for the Left troops, whom I can hear has really done everything today to make the disagreement in the red bloc in the area of foreigners, which is well known to everyone, the big problem. And where do we end up now? It hasn't been very long and a half hours and then we have the disagreement in the blue block on the alien area for full blowout. I guess it's pretty much even, huh? The wishes of the Danish People's Party in terms of foreign labour require cooperation with the Social Democratic Party, because there are strong forces in the blue block who want to open up the Danish labour market more than is wise. That is why I welcome the cooperation here. For of course it must be possible for Novo Nordisk, it must be possible for LEO Pharma, it must be possible for LEGO to pull highly specialised labour into Denmark, but it must be done controlled. The Green Card system is not a good one. It became de facto an import of labour, where many people ended up doing unskilled work in Denmark from third countries, and we therefore do not need this in the Danish labour market. So the short answer was yes. The longer answer was to stress that the disagreements are also in the blue block, it must be said.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530093002	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530093004	I think most people have discovered that without Mrs Mette Frederiksen mentioning it. But it's gonna be okay. Thank you for your answer. I'll sign. I do not think that surprisingly is a very good answer, because I think that these are very sensible measures that we have taken together in relation to foreign labour. I'd like to ask further that way. We have a system of amounts and we have various other arrangements. Will Mrs Mette Frederiksen and the Social Democratic Party be involved in an arrangement that puts an extra layer on it and allows companies to pick up the labour force on the various systems that are now if they can prove that they have tried to find the labour force in Denmark first? If, for example, companies do not have the right to vote in local elections, they do not have the right to vote in local elections. If you wish to bring a foreign employee into the payment scheme, the company must prove that they have actually sought the labour force of persons who have a legal residence permit in Denmark. In this way, we will ensure that the foreign labour force that comes, for example on the system of amounts, is only labour that we actually need.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530093057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530093059	First, a comment of a slightly more fundamental nature: I think I have now come to the point that I think we legislate too much in the Folketing and with too much haste. The rest of society finds it difficult to keep up with the huge amount of changes we keep making in here. We have just changed the system of amounts. I think it should be allowed to work. And then I might just add one thing: I know from conversations with many of the Danish companies that have become global today, so sub-sections and productions in other countries have that it is important for them, for example the ISS and others, that they can take an employee from another country to the head office in Denmark in order also to train the person in the Danish tradition that is around the company. I'm afraid that's going to be prevented with that exact change. But let us stick to the changes we have already made. I think they're good.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530093154	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530093156	Thank you so much. I would like to continue the long line of people who have praised Mrs Mette Frederiksen's speech. I will go so far as to say that this is the second best speech I have heard from the parliamentary platform today. That's something, though. I also think it is very good that a proposal for adoption has been made and that there are up to several parties involved. There is a lack of alternative and radical left, but now there is only one year before the elections, so that it can still be achieved. I understand that Mrs Mette Frederiksen simply does not know who the alternative is, because we have heard her say several times: what is the alternative? I can then say that it is a political party that sits down there. But I am quite sure that Mrs Mette Frederiksen knows about the Radical Left, because they have been in government with them in the past, and we also know how they usually have a great deal to say, quite often more than their number of mandates say. Is it really true that this time the Social Democratic Party has succeeded in getting the Radical Left fully on board that they will have nothing to say in foreign policy at all if Mrs Mette Frederiksen is to become Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530093311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530093313	I believe that the Radicals are exactly where the Radicals stand, and the Radicals have to explain that themselves. But this is an interesting discussion. Because you couldn't agree with the blue block on tax policy. Although Anders Samuelsen climbed into trees and got ladders to help and stayed up there for an incredibly long time, it was not the case that you agreed on the top tax. For there the Danish People's Party was more in agreement with us. And, no, of course, there should be no huge top tax relief when we have a welfare society that needs more money. I think we're up to now that it's about one in four cancer patients who don't get their treatment on time. What kind of priority is it really to keep talking about tax reliefs?The Prime Minister did so today when we have cancer patients in Denmark who don't get their treatment on time? Wasn't it smarter, wasn't it better, wasn't it fairer to spend that money on health? You couldn't agree on the tenants. You couldn't agree on the camps. You couldn't agree on the tenants either, but you couldn't agree on the tenants either. Left, Liberal Alliance, Conservatives thought: We can easily take 13 billion. kr. from the Landsbygningsfonden and the land's tenants. Fortunately, the Danish People's Party said no. Here the Danish People's Party was more in agreement with us. You can't agree on foreign labour. There are disagreements in the blue block, there are disagreements in the red block. I think we should get used to it, guys.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530093430	I think I'm a good part of the landscape. But when I get up, it's because time's up. Because I don't want to disturb you. I just want to signal that here's the time frame. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530093440	I thought that was a really, really nice answer. You know, Boov, you guys can disagree on your own. That says a lot. However, I must understand that we can expect to see migration in foreign policy, etc., after Mrs Mette Frederiksen had to become Prime Minister. That is how I had to understand the answer or attempt at an answer that I received.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530093505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530093507	I cannot explain what other parties are doing. I can explain what the Social Democratic Party is doing. And yes, we've moved on to the foreign field, and that's good. It's good for Denmark. In fact, I very much agree with Mr. The words of Rasmus Jarlov. For it is untenable to continue to take so many people to Denmark that we cannot integrate those who come here. That is why I do not entirely agree with what the Prime Minister has said before that Denmark should be open to anyone who wants to. Because we actually want a ceiling on how many people with non-western backgrounds come to Denmark. For us, this is not just a question of the labour market and education. For us, it is also a question of democratic values, cohesion, language, our ability to run a society. Perhaps the question is now the President-in-Office of the Council is standing up, so now I have to stop whether there are also some options in the break-up of block policy, because I think that is what we are going to see and have already seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530093603	Thank you very much to Mrs Mette Frederiksen for today's work so far. And a warm welcome to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530093613	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor. And thank the Prime Minister for his speech this morning. It is true that it is one of the best that has been held so far, that is quite well seen. Looking back at the parliamentary year on which we have the final debate, and just turning the time back to December, I have to admit that we had quite a low point. We might as well get it out and talk things out. We had some of a low point in the adoption of the Finance Act, because the government could not really agree with itself if it should vote in favour, but eventually managed to get a majority for the Finance Act for this year, and we are glad that the Finance Act for 2018 contains a lot of good things. Conversely, when I look at the parliamentary year that has passed, I think there was a highlight last week. The Crown Prince turned 50 years old and Denmark celebrated the Crown Prince, and when I mention it as a highlight in the parliamentary year, it is because it bears witness to a community and cohesion in Denmark that is important. If we are to have a strong country in the future too, it requires us to have strong symbols that we can stand together. There is a very, very important institution, and the celebration of the Crown Prince in the past week has shown that the Danes are backing up, whether by race or in the Palace Square, where you are flapping and yelling hurrah, or it is simply by watching television or by other means. So there I was proud. When you look over the parliamentary year and take it all together, it is true, as the Prime Minister says, that things are going very well in many areas, and I actually got the idea, if we would not have a debate here today, when the left would be very pleased with the achievements that have been made. So, I am thinking in particular of the fact that the parties that supported the previous government before the 2015 elections and were sorry, I have to assume that there was less growth in the municipalities, for example less money for core welfare, are happy that once again, after the Danish People's Party has entered a crucial central role in Danish politics, there is growth in the municipalities' economy, so that they have better opportunities to provide care for the elderly, etc., that is, the core welfare that many in here are concerned with. We have gone from minus growth to growth in the area of the elderly, in the area of health, and more police officers are coming. All these things are important to us in the Danish People's Party. The two per cent annual cost-saving requirement in the hospitals has certainly gotten away by now. It wasn't gone until 2015, it's now gone here in 2018. This is necessary, because the skilled staff we have in our hospitals deserve recognition and respect, and that is what they get, among other things. We know that we are creating a system that regulates their economy in a much better way than what has been known so far. Then, of course, we have to move forward, and I agree with the Prime Minister that we must have a health reform II. We need to look at how we ensure that Danes are helped as close to their homes as possible; how we ensure that the hospitals are a place you come in a very short time, but that it is the prevention, and it is the rehabilitation after hospitalisation that is of course crucial and that it takes place in the municipalities close to where the citizen lives. In the years to come there will be enough to do and especially to do in relation to the elderly area. We will have a situation up to 2025 where there will be 80,000 to 100,000 more elderly people in 80 years and over. When they grow old, many of them are also affected by dementia, and this requires us to have skilled employees in our care for the elderly who can handle this whole task. That is why, with the Finance Act, we have also provided funds to attract more people to care for the elderly and, in general, make the section of our welfare society more attractive to the skilled young people that we will need in the future to help our elderly. We must also look at the amount available to pensioners in relation to set-off rules and the like. It's an exercise for us this fall. With the tax agreement, we have looked at how it is better to get people into work and into working life, so that they continue to work and do not get excessive set-off when they retire. We think there is a hanging party in relation to pensioners, in other words those who have become pensioners, and we must remember to come back to them in the autumn and ensure that they improve their conditions. When things are going better in Denmark, it is largely due to the tightening of foreign policy that has been implemented over the past few years. Now the Radicals have been a little in focus here today, and I think that is quite a good thing, because the Radicals are in many ways the opposite to what the Danish People's Party stands for, and what a large majority of this Parliament has said in recent years. When the Radicals swung the tactics, for example. In 2014, 14,792 asylum seekers came to Denmark. Now it has been a few years, when the others have been allowed to swing the pace more, and last year, as the Prime Minister mentioned, 3,500 asylum seekers arrived, that is the lowest number for 9 years, and there is still a decrease this year. This is an absolutely necessary development in order to safeguard Denmark in the future, and it also means that the 45 relaxations, such as the Radical Left, yes, I think even Mr Tugendhat. Morten Østergaard himself referred to as improvements, as the Radicals believed there were in the immigration policy in 2011-2015, which was therefore relaxations, then replaced by almost 100 tightenings now. I would like to say here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament today that when we reach no. 100, we give cake. There shouldn't be any narrow spots. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is, of course, also welcome and also other government ministers. If you don't feel it's nice to eat cake where you are now, you can come to Dansk Folkeparti and get cake when we round tightening no. 100. I think that will happen in the next few days. But, of course, we also need to move on in the field of foreigners. We must ensure the paradigm change we have discussed during the parliamentary year. After all, the paradigm shift is short-lived: when you come to Denmark and the starting point is that you come to Denmark to be here temporarily until you can return to your home country, the starting point must also be that you are here temporarily. It's not like that today. If you come to Denmark and get asylum, the starting point is that you are here permanently. We must, of course, have reversed this, so that we are actually here on a temporary basis and are helped home to our home country and help to rebuild it when the opportunity is available for it. We're also gonna have to look at it with a ceiling on family reunions. This is something I have taken up in various, I think three, Question hours since January here in the Danish Parliament to the Prime Minister. Germany is now introducing a ceiling on family reunification with effect from 1 August. They say 12,000 a year of those who are temporarily staying under the conditions that we also know and have a bunch of in Denmark, so they simply say that they will give family reunification to 1,000 of them per month. If we transfer it to Danish conditions, it is such a 65-67 a month or something we can then have as a ceiling. But it is clear that when Germany can create such a ceiling, we of course are also interested in the introduction of such a ceiling here in Denmark. And we welcome the fact that the Prime Minister has promised discussions on how to proceed along that path. We also think, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen said in her rapporteur's speech, that the idea of setting up centres in North Africa, that is to say, stopping the possibility of seeking direct asylum in Denmark, is a perfectly correct one. We also recognise that, of course, there is some way from that idea to the fact that it is actually established and, of course, has a lot of focus on what we do in the intervening period. The fact that you can go through six or seven safe countries and then suddenly come to Denmark and then have a right to seek asylum in Denmark is, in our view, an absurdity. We are negotiating citizenship, that is citizenship under which conditions you can get it and I would like to say in this connection that some of what is important for the Danish People's Party is that we get a look at the introduction of a career period. The government says that there are criminal acts which, if you commit them, before you seek citizenship, can make you never be able to acquire citizenship. It is, of course, quite right to go that way. Similarly, we would like to have a situation in which, if you do get citizenship, it is conditional on the fact that you do not commit the same criminal acts during a subsequent period. Then you have to have taken away citizenship again, for example for up to 10 years after you have acquired citizenship. We would very much like that to be discussed further with the government and other parties interested in it and to find out how we can legally put it together. I just want to say that the Prime Minister has cause for joy today. I am thinking, of course, that the day before yesterday everything brought an article stating that the Prime Minister's chance of re-election is now greater than before. It is certainly paradoxical because the government has not come through its entire policy because the Danish People's Party and other parties have said no to pension reform, top tax concessions, more money from the general sector. But I just thought that it would make the Prime Minister happy that he has been helped in this way by the Danish People's Party. So when commentators and others ask if Dansk Folkeparti is really a support party for the government, if we are now there to help the government, then the answer according to Everything's article must be: So absolutely, we are the prime minister's best friend. So my advice to the Prime Minister is, of course, that he will also listen to the Danish People's Party in the future. Then the Prime Minister will do well, both when it comes to a proper welfare policy when it comes to strict immigration policy, but also when it comes to the European Union, Mr President. Prime Minister, where the Left seems to have recovered the EU socks of the former President. We need a critical sense of the European Union, and I would just like to say that I think the latest developments in Italy show that. It is funny to criticise Hungary, Poland and other countries if they go in a critical direction in the European Union. If Italy is heading in an EU-critical direction, someone will see to it that they are allowed to try again to find more EU-positive politicians. We can get back to that. My time has passed and I just have to read in conclusion a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party: proposals for adoption Since the election of the European Parliament, a large number of decisions have been taken, drawing Denmark in the right direction. Some 130,000 more private jobs have been created, nearly 50,000 fewer full-time people are on public support. There are positive developments in all regions, but initiatives must continue to be taken to ensure a balanced Denmark. We are concerned with ensuring a better climate and environment for future generations. The necessary tightening of foreign policy has been achieved. The direction must be maintained, so that, for example, the number of asylums is kept at a low level, including by ensuring that temporary stays are also temporary. The Folketing is looking forward to the announced discussions on initiatives in the wake of Germany's ceiling on family reunification. The positive development means that it has been possible to lift welfare significantly, among other things. with more doctors and nurses in health care, an increase in the elderly area and more resources for the police. • V 71).
ParlaMint-DK_20180530094719	Thank you. Then we move on to the questioners, and the first is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530094723	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I'd like to ask you a little bit about this citizenship thing that's being mentioned. I feel that obtaining Danish citizenship, Danish citizenship, is an exceptionally great privilege. It can never be a right, but it is something that is earned, and I know that it is something that many of those who come here value incredibly. You can feel that when you're standing here on the day of citizenship. It is people who have come here who have learned our language, have come into associations and have got a job. How proud and happy they are of Danish citizenship! Then there are also people who get citizenship, who do not respond very well to the fact that they have acquired that citizenship and who, for example, commit crime, or who do not agree with the fundamental democratic values on which our legislation stands. That is why I believe that this idea of a career or what I myself would call a conditional citizenship, that if you meet the requirements, you can enjoy the privilege of obtaining Danish citizenship, but that if you are, for example, involved in crime afterwards, you can also lose it again. That is always a good thing, but I also think that there will be something right and proper in it, and that is why my question to Mr Beazley is addressed to the President-in-Office of the Council. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Is this something that we can stand together in the current negotiations on citizenship, in other words, to ensure that, in the case of crime, for example, we can lose our citizenship again?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530094859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530094900	Yes, we certainly can, and I also hope that the debate on this will show that the government will be very active in this discussion. There are, of course, now negotiations on these matters, and one can say that logic has it in its own right. If we say that there are some things that mean that you will not be able to acquire citizenship, that is to say that you have simply lost your right to a subsequent citizenship, if you have committed certain types of crime, why should you be able to commit the same kinds of crime afterwards and then retain your citizenship? Then there are a lot of legal subtleties and so on, but I think it must be possible, if it is clear from the granting of citizenship here in the Folketing that it is on the condition that you do not subsequently commit some of these different forms of crime, because then you lose it, also subsequently to be able to take a citizenship from people again. There is no doubt that the sense of justice in the population will increase if you do something like this. Because, of course, you think it is an abuse of the possibility of citizenship, which is a gift to get, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen rightly says, if you can really step on Denmark in such a way that once you have got it, you start to embark on gang crime or other serious forms of crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095015	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095016	Then I just have a question about something completely different. I think it has succeeded, and I would also like to sign that here, together with the Danish People's Party, in many crucial areas to prevent the government from pursuing its own policy, and that is very good. For the policy being put forward rarely benefits the whole of Denmark, but often only a few. We can just take one example, and I know that I often use the cancer area. I am a relative of my own, and that is a lot of Danes, and I simply cannot understand when we are in a situation where very many cancer patients do not get their treatment on time, and we know that it can have serious consequences that we then have a government that keeps talking tax cuts. In other words, was it not natural for us to continue our excellent cooperation so that we could actually ensure that cancer patients receive their treatment on time, instead of continuing to hear again and again about the tax cuts that are obviously not affordable if we are to provide a proper welfare society?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095116-2	In other words, it is absolutely crucial for the Danish People's Party that there is room in our economy for constant security, among other things. Health. This is one of the most important areas in our welfare societies, together with the elderly, and it is absolutely crucial for us that there are resources to strengthen health in the future. That is also why we have been so concerned about it so far as we have, among other things. this 2-percent saving requirement across the hospitals, which meant that the employees had to run ever faster, even in a very ill-thought-out way in many situations. We have done so and said that it is simply necessary to manage hospitals in a different way that gives more respect to employees. After all, it is the employees who provide that help for, among other things. our cancer victims, who are also necessary for them to be able to organise courses which are exactly what the sufferers need. And we will continue to do so, even in those situations where the government is a little too sorry that there is not as much money for tax cuts as it would like. But we will continue along that exact path.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095218	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095220	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Actually, I'd like to sign for mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the cooperation of the Danish People's Party, in particular the cooperation we have had on the cash aid ceiling and on the integration benefit. If it were not up to the blue block, we would not have had a ceiling on cash aid and we would not have had an integration benefit, and I assume that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl agrees with me that it helps to get more people into the labour market. That's why I want to hear Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, if he shares my concern that fewer people will enter the labour market if the red bloc should come back to power and roll it back here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095309	There is no doubt that the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration benefit have had an effect in relation to more people entering the labour market. This has given some a welcome boost to the labour market. So I would like to sign for that, and of course I am nervous about some of the things that have happened in recent years. So, we know at least that there are a number of parties in here who have been very opposed to those things, and if they get power as they have been watching, it will be rolled back. It is obvious, and it is then the question whether they are given power as they have been watching. We must then also discuss this with the Danes in the run-up to a parliamentary election. I have the addition that it is also important to me that companies and also the public sector are open to that part of our unemployed who have had a little more difficulty in going in and driving a hundred kilometres an hour at first, and there I sometimes find that discussion about how to solve things by getting more foreign labour a little questionable. Because if companies and we have also discussed it in relation to internships and the like, should also assume the responsibility of training those people who otherwise find it difficult to enter the labour market, then sometimes we also need a little pressure on companies. That is, of course, the balance we think should then be in it and, of course, we also often have an understanding of it by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095426	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095427	Thank you for that answer. Now I really want to change the subject and talk a little about what we have also been very much in common about, namely ensuring a better balance for Denmark. This is something that we in the Left are incredibly concerned with, and I can hear that it is also something that concerns Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. So I would like to hear: has the rapporteur given any concrete thought to how we can also ensure that Denmark remains in a better balance in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095456-2	I think this is an extremely important agenda, and I am pleased that the rapporteur of the Left is addressing it today. There have probably been some people around who have thought that a Capital Commission might have been an expression of whether one had now given up the idea of a Denmark in balance, and then I think it is refreshing if we use the day today to confirm each other that it is an agenda that continues. For us, it is both about equal economic opportunities around the country, i.e. that you can provide a public service in all parts of the country that is satisfactory. When you become an older person, it is no use considering whether you have to change the municipality in order, for example, to be able to have proper care for the elderly, or to think, if you think about your children's schooling, what municipality should I settle in, who can afford to give a good education? There we must ensure that there are equal opportunities. Then, of course, there is a continuing discussion about state jobs, also in relation to the media settlement that we must conclude: is there a balance in relation to the media coverage that is in Denmark etc. etc.? There are plenty of areas that we can logically address there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095551	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095551-2	Last night, the government reported out a little like a thief at night that a new attack would be made on our unemployment benefit system and thus on the social security of the Danes. It must be punished more severely if you choose to leave your place of work, for example. because there are unfair terms. Even if, for example, we do not know what we are going to do. In other words, if you have paid to your insurance fund for decades, you have to be subject to tougher sanctions and have no income for a long time. The Danish People's Party has a rather dull story when it comes to the deterioration of our unemployment benefit system, which is why I think that many Danes may be able to sit out there and be concerned about whether we should see a repeat with new deteriorations in our benefit system. However, that concern can be put to shame by the rapporteur by clearly stating today that the Danish People's Party will not, at this time, contribute to further deterioration of the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095644	Thank you for the question. In the autumn of 2015, that is, shortly after the last parliamentary elections, we were some who put us together, took responsibility and reconciled ourselves around the whole benefit discussion in a way that has really since created tranquillity around the unemployment benefit system. We in the Danish People's Party thought this was a good thing, because the unemployment benefit system is part of that which Mr. Pelle Dragsted is talking about this safety net that creates security in the labour market and is part of this famous flexicurity model in Denmark. So we think that the calm that is around the unemployment benefit system that we created in autumn 2015 has been good. We have no desire whatsoever for this to be disturbed by the fact that there are some who come up with ideas on how to change the benefit system in different ways. I also believe, with regard to the presentation that came from the government yesterday, that our rapporteur was very quickly out of a very clear message. He certainly believed that it must have been written by some who had not themselves been in the position that they might as unskilled suddenly become unemployed. We can, of course, discuss this with the Minister for Employment at some point. But the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was very clear yesterday about this. I thought that was quite appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095805	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095806	Thank you. I take this as an indication that it is not something that the Danish People's Party will vote on. Then we hope it stays true. But now that we are looking at this sort of thing in the future, I would like to discuss the inheritance tax. It is another question in which the Danish People's Party may have been a little weaver in their statements. Can we get such a relatively clear message today: Dansk Folkeparti will be involved in e.g. to reduce the percentage of inheritance tax, although we know that, firstly, by such intervention, we will be financed by money which should otherwise have been used for welfare and, secondly, that it has a very unequal profile, since it is the very, very rich Danes who will make the absolutely greatest gain out of such intervention?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095851	When I heard that discussion about the inheritance tax, I leaned back in my chair over at the Proviant House, and then I thought: is it really the big problem we have in Denmark that we have the inheritance tax arranged as it is? And then I came to the conclusion that I simply could not make myself think that it would be a huge problem for the inheritance tax to be set up as it is. This also means that those parties who believe that the inheritance tax should be reduced are more concerned with the general ideological view that all taxes should be reduced. Our rapporteur responded well by saying that this is always the case when we talk about lowering taxes: where does the money come from and what is the funding? It is clear that when you take the funding from, for example, the room for manoeuvre to be spent on elderly care, hospitals etc., the Danish People's Party is well known to say that we are safeguarding that there must also be affording us proper public welfare in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095947	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530095948	Thank you. There was one thing that worried me a few months ago in this Chamber, where the Danish People's Party had a motion for a resolution to deprive free schools that had more than 50%. bilingual, state subsidy. On this occasion, the Ministry of Justice asked the Ministry of Justice to make an assessment of the proposal, and the Ministry of Justice's assessment was that this resolution raises important questions in relation to section 70 of the Constitution. We did, of course, state this to the rapporteur, and to that we got an answer back that this is the same as saying that there is no problem with it in relation to the basic law that you can do so. It worries me that the interpretation of something that says that it raises important issues in relation to the Constitution, evidently at the Danish People's Party means that it is okay for us not to take notice of that. So I just need to know if that is where the Danish People's Party stands when we get the assessment from the Ministry of Justice on any political proposal that it raises important issues in relation to the Constitution. Does this mean that DF believes that there is no reason to take further notice?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100057	What skilled people come to us with, including the lawyers in the Ministry of Justice, we of course take very seriously. At the same time, I also have to admit that we are politicians and that we are the Folketing and that we are putting the law in this country. Of course, when we have a clear political position on a subject, we must also be prepared to challenge those lawyers who, if necessary, turn on a warning light. We have also seen in the past, when there have been legal assessments of what could be done in relation to international conventions, so not only the constitution, but also international conventions. When we went from 1 to 3 years in relation to when you could get family reunification to Denmark, the starting point was that you couldn't, and it turned out that you could. The Supreme Court said you could. I guess that's evidence that law isn't the kind of thing with two lines underneath. It's for ongoing discussion. That is also why, when there are legal proceedings, there is a typical representative of both sides, and then they can be duelling on legal knowledge, and then there is someone who has to cut through at some point and say: this is the legal assessment in this specific situation. It would also be the case if there were an issue to be resolved by the courts. Then they would end up having to make such a decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100213	Thank you. I would just like at any time to challenge the fact that a political attitude should trump our constitution. I have another question I would like to ask. Now we have had the Prime Minister talking about a whole Denmark, one Denmark. We have had Mrs Mette Frederiksen talk about a green Denmark. And then, sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl speaks a little about celebrating alien straits in a ones and os rhetoric. In relation to the green, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl did not even mention in his speech what the visions of the Danish People's Party really are for the green transition. We are faced with a parliamentary election. We know that this is one of the important issues on which the people also want us to take a political position. So where is the Danish People's Party in relation to the need for us to make a political, perhaps radical, effort to strengthen the green transition soon?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100302	I must say first of all that I did not say that a political position would trump the constitution. Actually, I didn't say that. I said that there are different legal assessments over time and that you cannot put two lines below what a legal assessment necessarily is. It can move, too. I actually thought that the nuance of the debate could be penetrated into a parliamentary debate, but it was perhaps too ambitious to believe it. In relation to the green agenda: I think it is absolutely right that Denmark is a country that is increasingly based on renewable energy. What our share has been in this whole debate has been to ensure that it happens roughly in line with the fact that we see other countries do it too because there is of course a discussion about costs. That is precisely the discussion we are now having in the context of the negotiations that are currently taking place. We think it is good that more power is coming from, for example. wind turbine side. We just see that it has to be offshore, that is, at sea, where it doesn't bother the Danes, instead of continuing to put these very, very large industrial companies, as a windmill is, into people's backyards and thus bother people. So we're totally on this agenda. We are actively involved in it, including in the negotiations that are taking place now, but we have some issues in this way that we are trying to defend.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100413	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100413-2	Yes, and it may be that there should be room for a smile on my lips and something like that, but somehow I still have a bit of a problem with the fact that cake has to be eaten, because a number of legislative proposals have been counted, which are ultimately about people who are in misfortune, fleeing from humanitarian disasters. For me, it's not really connected, but it's enough, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says, part of the difference, that we are not celebrating other people's misfortune. That's how we can be different. What I think is perhaps more important to clarify here is in relation to European policy, because the Danish People's Party has already said or promised that it will ensure that the Danes vote on an association with the European Union similar to that to which Britain had to negotiate at some point. I see it this way... [Sound Outlook]... such a vote and when roughly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100525-2	When we are ready to sweep the rigours of foreign policy, it is because we think that these are necessary tightenings to preserve the Denmark we care about. So it is simply a question that if we want to preserve our homeland and we want the values that we have been allowed to have been part of our upbringing, there is also for future generations, it is necessary to take care of Denmark. This requires tightening up in the field of foreigners, and I understand that Mr. Morten Østergaard finds it difficult to understand, for the 45 concessions made by the Radicals during the last parliamentary term were improvements in Mr. Morten Østergaard's eyes. Well, there's a little bit going on for what, sir. Morten Østergaard will fight for in the years to come, and so it is; that is how the political positions differ. As far as the European Union is concerned, when the British have negotiated their agreement on Brexit, it is quite obvious that it would be appropriate for the Danes to be asked in what direction their politicians, that is, we, should work, because this could for the first time give us the opportunity to have a referendum. And the Prime Minister himself has actually said that we must have a European debate, and we would very much like to have a debate on the direction in which we should work, instead of it always becoming a defensively oriented referendum, which is about a majority in here having removed a reservation, and then it is about whether we can maintain that the European Union should not decide any more. Imagine if the Danes could suddenly have a discussion about what direction it should be, on the basis of an agreement reached by the British with the European Union. That could be refreshing. Well, sir, that's what I'm supposed to do. Morten Østergaard then rejoices.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100647	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100650	When I ask, it is because the Danish People's Party was very disappointed by the Prime Minister's speech to Europe Day and the subsequent statement by the Minister for Defence. I think sir... Søren Espersen switched between being massively disappointed and being hugely disappointed, as were the expressions that came out. But then Mr. Søren Espersen asked whether it had any bearing on the Danish People's Party's dreams of being able to be in government with the Left after an election, that one has a somewhat different view on the EU and indeed wants Denmark to be reported out and have a different connection with the EU. So says Mr. Søren Espersen: No, no, because it is laid down in the European Committee, and that is where you have to bow to the majority. So I just have to understand, because it's kind of a parade proposal with such a vote. This is not something you really think it is something you think, but the Danish People's Party can easily sit in a government and conduct the European policy that a majority in the Folketing wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100746	Now I am not standing here at a graduation debate for a parliamentary year negotiating government bases. It is something you take after a choice and only if the voters give support that you are in a situation where it is relevant. That's one thing of it. The second point is that, when we are disappointed with the line taken by the Minister of Defence and the government in relation to EU reservations, it is of course a question that we think it is always a question that, after a little time has passed after an EU vote, a referendum on a reservation, we are just trying again, and it always comes down to having a reservation removed so that the European Union can decide something more. It's always this destructive way of acting where the people always feel like you're creeping up, and now you have to try to get the next cut. This has been tried with the euro, it has been tried with the legal reservation, and now there are discussions about trying with the defence reservation. I do not think that this is a way to drive EU policy forward in a country where it is known that a large part of the Danes are deeply sceptical about giving more power to the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100842	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100846	Thank you. I'm kind of sharing sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's point of view as regards the need for strong Danish institutions, and that can be many things. One of the institutions we have in Denmark, which I think is strong, is TV 2. TV 2 provides a very good public service, TV 2 is the Danes' favourite channel, TV 2 is one of the channels that makes the most Danish-language TV, TV 2 reaches out to the whole of Denmark in its collaboration with the TV 2 regions, and in addition, TV 2 is also a really good business, I think for some like us, because we do not pay for TV 2, but in return they deliver a lot of public service to the Danes every day. The government wants to sell TV 2, once they want to sell it all, and now they want to sell some of it, and I'm worried about that because I'm afraid that a sale will mean that TV 2, which is the Danes' favorite channel, will suddenly smoke on foreign hands. I have had a very difficult time discovering what the position of the Danish People's Party is in that question. You used to be for a sale. What do you think of that today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530100958	I share many of the things that are mentioned here, which are therefore positive things about TV 2. I also believe that as a country we benefit from having two large television stations that can provide public service on the news page to the Danes. So I certainly belong to those who are in favour of TV 2 having a strong position in the future, also with its headquarters in Odense, so that it does not necessarily have to be in Copenhagen. We haven't jumped out and said that now it's just about selling TV 2. We are dealing with this in the negotiations that are, with the scepticism that is needed, both in terms of whether it is good to get a strategic partner into the short term in relation to the development of TV 2 in the future, but also in terms of whether there should be any obligation subsequently to put TV 2 in completely private hands, which, if so, could mean, in the world we live in, that it may be people from outside with other intentions in relation to media business that might then end up as a buyer. So we also have the concerns that are raised here, and we carry them into the negotiating room in the discussion that is taking place right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101110	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101112	I'm glad. The reason I am asking is that the Danish People's Party has once been in favour of the sale of TV 2, which one can simply read. In fact, there are a number of parties, the SF, the Social Democratic Party and several other parties on the left who have said that this is a bad idea for the reasons I have just listed up. I know, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti have no objection to pulling away the curtain under the plans presented by the government, which the Danish People's Party considers to be bad. So now that we seem to agree that it is a really bad idea to sell TV 2, why isn't it just that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the platform says we shouldn't?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101156	I have expressed the pleasure of TV 2. I have expressed scepticism about a route around sales that may mean that TV 2 ends up in hands that we do not like, etc., and then there are negotiations. When there are negotiations that are currently under way, I suppose that somewhere else we should also allow those negotiations to take place. After all, there are parties participating, the questioner's own party participating, the social democracy participating, etc., and there is also the opportunity to end up participating in a media reconciliation and thus also have an influence on things which, among other things, include: the future of TV 2. I hope very much that this situation can be achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101232	Sir. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101240	Thank you. And thank you for a very good speech. I also think it is one of the very best speeches that has been made today, so thank you for that. One of the points I would like to raise concerns business policy. For an area about which we have had a very good cooperation with the Danish People's Party, we are in business policy where we are among other things. has made this big business and entrepreneurial package, where we have eased taxes and taxes for business for 14.7 billion. kr. Part of the agreement we made at the time was about tax reductions, among other things. on these goods, which are very sensitive to cross-border trade. I heard that mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentioned in his speech that we should do a little for pensioners this autumn, and I immediately wondered whether it might be an idea to try to look at some more tax reductions in relation to some of the border trade goods, because it also benefits Danish business, it benefits the pensioner, who has to pay less for the goods down in the local supermarket, etc. etc. Could it at all be a clue to work out, i.e. to see if we could do something more about these goods, which are very sensitive to cross-border trade, so that we could create some more activity in the Danish retail trade?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101351	That was elegant. Well, I must congratulate you. To have a discussion on how to do something for pensioners and their availability, set-off rules, etc. I would like to say to the House that we have to reduce taxes on border trade sensitive goods, because they also buy pensioners, I think, were elegant; I would like to admit that. I guess it's good to take those discussions separately. When it comes to combating cross-border trade, we are fully aware that we have done so in the past, and we also want to have a very strong focus on this in the future. And it works when we take out some commodity groups, that is to say when we say what it is for some commodity groups that primarily pull the border trade, and then do something about the taxes. We have seen this having a positive effect, compared to what is then traded in Danish shops, and it benefits Danish employment etc. etc. So from here a commitment that we go further along the road and in the good cooperation that is, also with the package that was made with the Finance Act for 2018 • that was one of the reasons that was also there that it was good that we got it adopted there back in December, i.e. because there were some good things about taxes that we agreed on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101456	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101458	Well, thanks for that, I'd like to sign for that. I am pleased that we can try to look at how we can relax some of those taxes. I also heard that Mrs Mette Frederiksen said 'and it is quite right that these levies on ordinary food are something that is socially wrong, in other words, in relation to whether we were going to have levies on meat'. So I am at least pleased if we can work further along a path where we can make it cheaper to be a Dane, i.e. by relaxing some of these excise duties that are on many ordinary foods. After all, we have had a great deal of relaxation, for example. The nut tax, the tax on rain clothes, so perhaps we should try to work a little further than some of the other taxes that we have, so that we can make it cheaper to be a Dane, but also to keep some trade in Denmark. Sønderjylland in particular has been hit hard in relation to border trade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101540	This has been a problem for many years, and it will also be a problem in the years to come, but we do not share the idea that we can do nothing about it. Well, of course we can do something about a culture that is about thinking that you save a lot of money by driving across the border and shopping, because there is also a lot that does it without saving the big if they count all costs. But it is clear that the several times we have to look at certain commodity groups, with regard to which the border trade is drawn, and can tell the Danes that it is certainly not worth driving for that product, the more border trade we also remove.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101615	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101623	I was actually pleased with the reply which Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl gave earlier on the inheritance tax, but I still need confirmation, because we need no longer than the Finance Act 2016 when the Danish People's Party voted to go in and relieve the inheritance tax as far as family-owned companies are concerned. Then there was a billion kroner that we could have spent on welfare. That is why I need to hear from the Danish People's Party about what the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives have put forward, whether the Danish People's Party intends to vote for a further relief of inheritance tax, or whether it is a completely closed chapter, because from my perspective it is just top tax relief in disguise.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101703	I really think that there is a real difference between what we did then and what is being discussed now. In these family-owned companies, it's also a matter of whether or not you can have a discussion about who will benefit from the fact that you retain the companies in Denmark and their interest in Denmark. And there's a tendency that these family-owned companies have actually also contributed a lot to Danish society, also in the areas where they are, whether it is in the Billund area, or it's on Als etc. You just have to keep that in mind. The next discussion we have here about inheritance tax is whether or not we should change the general conditions for the payment of inheritance tax. That is where I can just repeat what I said before, namely that when I leaned back down there in the storehouse in my office chair, I simply could not see that it was a big problem that we have the inheritance tax that we have today. I do not think that there is any reason to change it and to spend the proceeds on it, because it will, if necessary, be a revenue that we can otherwise spend in a budget law to secure our pensioners, or we can ensure better health care conditions, etc. And that is where we shall give priority to those funds rather than lowering the inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101808	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101813	Thank you for your answer. I am delighted to hear that, but there are such cracks in it where I am concerned about Mr. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl today still leans a little too softly back in the chair over at the provision house. Does the Danish People's Party then believe that it can be the case that you get part of these inheritance reliefs through from the Conservative and Liberal Alliance? I mean, when sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl says it's not a big problem, so I don't hear Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl say it would be a problem to spend the money that way. One thing, then, is that it is not a big problem that something is arranged in a certain way, but there may of course be wishes from the governing parties, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is convinced in the negotiating room so that the money is not spent on health and the elderly. Otherwise, it is a strong desire on the part of the Social Democrats, and it is a strong wish that we can do so together.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101902	But is it not always the case, also for the Social Democratic Party, that when you enter a negotiating room, you have to tell the Danes where you stand and what you are going for and what your attitude is? And I have made that clear. We do not think that there is any reason to reduce the general inheritance tax and spend money on it. There we would rather spend the money on the elderly, health and so on. And then we can be measured and weighed on the compromises we make, whether we have come through with our policy. But is it not also the case that the Social Democrats are working, in other words, that people really have to be told very clearly where they are when they enter the negotiating room? Then you can be measured and weighed on whether you have lived up to what you said, whether you have succeeded in doing so in the negotiating room. That is how I have always worked politically, and it is really my impression that this is the way to go the farther in here. We can look at other parties who may have tried other ways of promoting their political views.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530101959	After all, the parties are giving us a list of whoever they like to be given priority first when the President is to pass on the floor, but you should remember that those who want to speak will formally have to press on anyway, otherwise you will not be given the floor, even if you are a priority as much as the President of the Party. We're gonna have another Social Democrat. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102021	Thank you. My point is, in fact, the continuation of a remark made by Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, for Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is absolutely right that this is also how we work in the Social Democratic Party, so we are trying to establish what we really want out of these negotiations and what our position is. And the reason I'm just asking in more detail is that it's also very nice to know where it is, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the Danish People's Party may be able to give themselves in relation to the desire of the entire government to relax the inheritance tax, which we know will only benefit the richest and primarily the people who live in North Zealand; it will not benefit those who live in West Zealand or South Jutland, etc. Did Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl any overview of where to trade? In other words, if there were to be a debate, what would have to be done to ensure that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl contributed to a further inequality-building reduction in the inheritance tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102122	So, have we in the Danish People's Party in recent years had the habit of having prepared ourselves in advance to give us, or has the picture been the opposite, that is, that we have probably been reasonably firm on our views? We've taken some terrible blows. I mentioned the whole of the December situation in the parliamentary year we are now moving out of where there was some drama because we stood firm on our views. So we are not inclined to start giving us before a debate. In other words, we have our clear views and we put them forward, even when they are asked about here in the Parliamentary Chamber, you know exactly where we stand, also in the question of whether we should lower the inheritance tax. We don't think we need to spend money on that. We'd like to spend the money elsewhere. And then, when there are negotiations, it allows us to try to keep up with it. And it may well be that it will be with some success that it is certainly my intention before we enter the negotiating room. But in relation to the fact that you have already told yourself well enough in this narrow circle, so it will be here and all that is exactly how you negotiate and how you organize it and where you are prepared to give yourself, I would say: should we not take it back to the opening debate, and then we can continue the exchange of views on it? I think it's just early enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102245	That is also quite fair, and I would like to sign for it, most of all because Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentioned it himself in her rapporteur's speech, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen also mentioned it in her report that on a number of points we have had a well-functioning welfare majority consisting of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the SF and most of the alternative, which has, of course, prevented a higher retirement age to the detriment of the worn out, has taken joint action to combat social dumping, made a joint effort to ensure that the tax at the top was not relaxed further than was needed, and we have done what we could to invest in common welfare. I would like to sign for that, and that is also why many of us have needed to hear Mr Beazley. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that there is no need to relax the inheritance tax for the people of this country who have the highest incomes and that perhaps there is a greater need to look together at how we can find some more money to make sure that people also experience welfare improvements out there in everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102351	Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. I believe that there are some obvious areas in our welfare societies where we need to optimise things, and I mentioned among other things. the elderly area. If there are 80,000 to 100,000 more elderly people over 80 years of age in the period up to 2025, we need to take action to ensure that we have the right people in the older sector who can help all these people who are in need of help. And it is not a given thing; it does not come by itself. So it is a piece of work that has been set in motion with the financial law that is now in place, but money has also been set off. There must be money for our health sector I have mentioned, more police officers. There are lots of tasks that we need to solve in our welfare society and which, in our view, come clearly before a serious debate is taken on lowering the inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102435	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102443	I'd like to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, if he sees it as a problem that we could land in a situation where the President of the Danish Parliament has a spouse who will be President of the State Auditors. Is this for the rapporteur a democratic problem; is this a problem for the viability of our institution? I myself, as group chairman of the Alternative, have been asked the question by a journalist recently. And I think this is a difficult question, because I have a good working relationship with our chairman here in the Folketing. I have never heard badly about the spouse who can become president of the State auditors. But is there a problem; is it too close? This is a question of principle, and it is very topical right now. So if we can otherwise rise above it, it is not a question of the people involved, but a very general and fundamental question that is actually important to get an answer to, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102530	Well, I don't think there's a problem. It is true that I have been asked that question before, which is why I have had the opportunity to think about it. So it's not just something coming now. In fact, I do not think there is a problem of principle, and there are several reasons for this. One is that members of parliament cannot be ill-advised. In other words, we Members of the European Parliament are allowed to advocate the views we may have on behalf of the electorate we are now elected by, and a farmer in here, for example. I would like to stress the importance of agricultural interests. Well, that's it. So there is no inability. The second is that the State Audit Board is, after all, the people of the Folketing who are really going to investigate the government. So there is no problem with that either. So, having examined it, we have come to the conclusion that we simply cannot see that there are any fundamental problems in it at all. If some people make it a problem of principle, it may be due to other things, for example. that you cannot rise above it. Perhaps this is precisely because we are beginning to relate to the people rather than to the principle of the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102634	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102637	I can then put my head on the block and say that I personally have nothing to do with the individual people. I have great respect for both of them, even though it is only the one I know so personally. But I just don't think the answer is quite exhaustive, perhaps because I would normally consider both the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party as someone who would really look a second time if there were a president of the State auditors who would actually keep us in here and be the spouse of the President of our institution. This is a question for us in the Alternative to which we do not yet have a clear answer. However, as I remember, the President of the Danish Parliament was also in the debate about whether or not the State auditors should be moved from this institution. And that's where I'm thinking, these are really tight lines. And if the rapporteur does not see any fundamental problem in it at all, that is just the way it is. However, I do not think the debate is over yet. It's very hard for me to communicate out that this is the way we should build it up if we got the chance to start again. So the question to the rapporteur is: if the rapporteur was given the chance to rebuild the institution, would it be a spouse who was President of the Folketing and President of the State Auditors?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102745	No. Well, I really don't think there's a problem and I'm not accusing the questioner of dealing with this question from an interest in the people here. Now I myself have been chairing the Finance Committee for a ten-year period, and it should be remembered that the Finance Committee is the committee in here that receives the Reichsaudit reports via the State Auditors. They are the ones who transmit these reports to the Folketing. The state auditors and the National Audit Office are the instrument of the Folketing to keep the government in its ears. So, it is a little striking that it now sounds like the National Auditor and the State Auditors have been put in the world to keep the Folketing in the ears. They're not. It's to keep the government in the hands of the executive. It is the ministries that they go into and carry out investigations in relation to identifying any problems. They will then return the report to the Folketing, which will then discuss what we do on the basis of the knowledge we get from these reports. That is why I see no conflict of interest at all in this, even though there is a member of parliament who has a spouse who is among the State auditors or, for that matter, is chairman of the State auditors, because there is an arrangement that the longest-standing typical chair is held. So I do not think there is a problem of principle. Then you can have all sorts of other agendas... I'm not accusing the questioner of that... but that's why I get this answer. Now I hope that this part of the answer has been more complete. So I really do not think there is any fundamental problem in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102908	And we can make one more in this round, and it's gonna be Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530102916	Thank you. I would like to return briefly to the debate on inheritance tax. I really think that the rapporteur, the chairman of the Danish People's Party, has answered quite clearly today, namely that it is not the policy of the Danish People's Party to spend quite a lot of money on wanting to lower the inheritance tax. It would also be an amount that would have to go from the scope, as the Danish People's Party has also said very clearly to be used to safeguard our welfare in the future. However, I still lack a clear assurance in here, and we would very much like to cooperate with the DF to ensure the future welfare of the country that, in a political debate, there should be no reduction in the inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530103018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530103023	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says that I should have said that we will not spend very much money on lowering the inheritance In fact, I think I have been formulated several times so far that we do not in any way intend to spend any money on lowering the inheritance tax. It is not at all on our list of things we think are necessary to do. I can promise that there are so many things that are said before on our wish list before you get down to a point that is called spending money on lowering the tax. I have explained this in various ways, and I hope that everyone here who has wanted to listen to this debate knows where the Danish People's Party is on this issue now. After all, there can be negotiations, and the government has every right to propose whatever they want, it has done so before, and of course it has the right to do so in relation to the autumn's Finance Act, and then you now know where the Danish People's Party is on this question, and then you will be able to see how it is going over the stage there in the autumn in connection with the financial negotiations. But we are sending the message to the government that we need to spend the money on other things than lowering the inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530103125	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530103128	I appreciate that too, sir. Thulesen Dahl states. If I put myself a little wrong, it was precisely because it was not so long ago that the wealthiest company heirs in this country had some rather large tax rebates in the form of a lower inheritance tax. But now we have to look to the future, as they say, and what I hear Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that it will not be with the votes of the Danish People's Party that the inheritance tax will be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530103157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530103201	And I would just like to remind you, as I said earlier, that I fully understand the political discussion also in relation to the changes made to family-owned companies. I respect the fact that you have a different attitude to that issue than the one that was agreed back in, I think it was 2016. But I also believe that this is a discussion about something other than what we are talking about now, because now we are talking about a general reduction in the inheritance tax, while at the time we were talking about how family-owned companies could last in the future, including in Danish society. In fact, I also believe that they add much to the areas of the country where family-owned businesses are large, but we can come back to that discussion if the questioner so wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530103237	There are many exciting questions waiting for Mr. Christian Thulesen Dahl, but unfortunately there is no time for that. Thank you very much for today or at least for now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530103315	Thank you for the floor. Now, of course, this is my first final debate as political rapporteur, and I can tell you that I have been very excited to be here today and to tell you about all the good things that the Left has contributed to. I have looked forward to making clear some of the many agreements we have together and to debating the differences we have as the nine different parties we are. I am particularly pleased with the agreements we have been in common. But it would still be too boring if I were to spend all my speaking time on it. So I'm not gonna do that. When we talk politics, we often talk about colors: you can be blue or red. Some are called black, some are called purple, and others have tried to patent being green. We can sit together in negotiations and paint with the whole palette and make a settlement. Or we can part at the door because the colors don't match. The truth is that we all have different colors, perhaps as many colors as the rainbow, and I have been inspired by that today. Let's start with the color red. Red was once a color that symbolized slamming tabs, socialism and solidarity. Today it is a color that symbolises a block in division. The Radicals want quota refugees, the Social Democrats do not want them. The unit list and the alternative will introduce a 30-hour working week. The Radicals, on the other hand, will not. And the alternative and SF will remove the cash benefits ceiling... the Social Democrats won't answer if they want to. In general, we need a great deal of answers. Should tax incentives be rolled back? How many times must foreign policy be relaxed? And what will happen to the benefits of integration if the Reds come back to power? I could go on like this: In the red block you have to look long for answers and long for the red thread. The next color is orange. Orange signals warmth, and here I come to think of our economy. It is an economy that we must keep warm without overheating, because a strong economy is important. It is the basis of our welfare societies. That is why we must give the economic recovery flying height and length of flight. This is done by pursuing a responsible economic policy so that the finances of the empire are controlled. This is done by making it more attractive to make an effort so that more people move from cash to work. And this is done by meeting foreigners with high demands and very clear expectations. All the different gripes have been taken by the government so that Denmark's economy can stay warm without burning on. This leads me to the color yellow, which is the color of great deals and low prices, and low prices have come more of. We have made it cheaper to be a Dane. We have done so, at the same time as we have lifted the welfare, just as we promised before the parliamentary elections in 2015. We have lowered the registration fee several times, so for example a family car like a VW Passat has become DKK 100,000. cheaper. We have lowered the price of crossing Storebælt and on ferry tickets to the islands, so it is easier to get around all of Denmark. And we have made the housing job scheme permanent, so we give the Danish families an extra hand in everyday life. And last but not least, we have given Danes with small labour incomes a tax relief so that working pays better. We are proud of that in the Left, I am proud of that and I am particularly proud that it has been possible to do so while we have invested massively in nuclear welfare. We have proven that politics is not black and white. We have proved that politics is not a either-or, we have proven that more money for welfare and good yellow prices are not opposites. When the Left leads the country, politics is a boat and... The next color of the Rainbow I have been looking forward to, because it is green. And if there is anything that can get the opposition into the red, it is when the Blue Left confesses the color as a green party. The green transition in Denmark is going very well. This is a green transition for which the Left has been responsible for 13 out of the last 17 years. The share of green electricity has more than tripled during that period and it overfills our climate targets. The government will now expand that effort, which is why we have come up with an ambitious climate change initiative. We invest in the largest offshore wind farm in Danish history, and we point the way to the goal of at least 50%. renewable energy by 2030. I want Denmark to be a green forerunner, and I want my son to grow up in a country where he can continue to drink water from the tap, bathe in the sea, roll in the sand on the beach and go for an evening walk in the woods. And I want his children to have the same opportunities. That is why we must continue to be ambitious and we must continue to be ambitious together. The last colors in the rainbow are blue and purple, and I will allow myself to spend extra time on the blue and skip the purple. Blue is a strong colour that deserves more time and recognition than the other colours. It is the color of a block of lots that has delivered one result after another. Before the general election in 2015, the Prime Minister set up four point marks. They're all delivered on each and every one of them. Since the elections, some 130 000 private jobs have been created. We have Denmark's record in employment, which is job growth throughout the country, and thus we have delivered on point number one: more private jobs. Since the election, the number of people with public support has fallen by 50,000, and since we introduced the ceiling on cash benefits, the number of people on cash benefits has fallen by 23,000. This means that we have also delivered on the line number two: that fewer people have to be supported by the public and that more people have to support themselves. Health has been raised by 4.4 billion. kr. The police have been strengthened by 1.3 billion. kr. on the latest Finance Act. The economic framework of the municipalities has been lifted by 11⁄2 billion. kr., care for the elderly has been strengthened several times, most recently on the 2018 Finance Act, where 2.7 billion was allocated. kr. The daily institutions have been strengthened by 1⁄2 billion. kr., we have created a school pool of 1⁄2 billion. kr., and thus we have delivered on point number three: a stronger core welfare. We have also delivered on point number four, namely immigration policy. We have adopted 76 austerity measures, and the austerity measures have contributed to Denmark having the lowest number of asylum seekers for nine years. This contrasts sharply with the 45 concessions made by the previous government. As you can probably hear, I am proud of the achievements of our blue government, and I actually understand if you reds are sitting and turning all green with envy. And we're not done with our work at all. We have a number of ambitious initiatives on the way, and we will include them. present a long-term plan for psychiatry, a cohesion reform for the public sector and a new initiative so that even more take up vocational training. And a new climate play so that Denmark can expand its green leadership position. I've been through the entire color spectrum. The last part of the parliamentary term will be equally colourful. I look forward to producing more results, and I look forward to finding the gold at the end of the rainbow. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530104301	You're welcome. Then we go over to the questioners, and the first one is Mr. Knox. Nicolai Wammen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530104308	Thank you for that and also thank the Left's political rapporteur for the speech, and welcome in the front line of defence of the government. This is not an easy task, but I wish you every success. Also thanks for a colorful palette of views on how the world looks. There are two of the colours that I am a little concerned about when it comes to government policy. The left speaks of the green, but has acted black. And when we look back, we can see that under this government it has been a few years when the level of ambition has been reduced on the green, where you were about to give up a offshore wind farm, which could have put thousands of jobs at risk. So it is not a good story that the Left rapporteur has to defend backwards. Now we are dealing with energy negotiations, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left in all silence: when you put forward an energy proposal, why is it that more than two thirds of the money you want to spend should go to tax and tax cuts and less than a third should be spent on green initiatives? Where's the green driver's shirt in that? I would very much like to hear the rapporteur's reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530104432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530104434	I am very pleased that Mr. Nicolai Wammen asks about the green, and I would like to remind Mr. Nicolai Wammen a little bit about the story in relation to the green area. It is that since the 1970s we have concluded broad agreements in this area. The Left has had the power of government over the last 13 out of 17 years, so we have been in the agreements that have been made in the green area. Then I would also like to remind Mr. Nicolai Wammen that we over-fulfil the climate objectives set by the EU; that we over-fulfil the objectives set by the former SR government for reducing CO2 The agreement that Mr. Martin Lidegaard called the most ambitious agreement, we overfulfill. So I'd like to say to Mr. Nicolai Wammen, that the Left is indeed a green party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530104536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530104538	It is a good thing that the Left has that view of itself. I don't think it's shared by so many others. The energy issue that has come here most recently and where I asked why more than two thirds of the money allocated will be spent on tax reductions instead of green measures. I was not given an answer to that, but I hope that the rapporteur will take the time to respond to this second time. It is an exercise on which the chairman of the Climate Council, who is set up to advise the government, namely Peter Birch Sørensen, says: "There is not much climate perspective in lowering the tax on general electricity consumption, in fact it may in the shorter term be a little problematic. From all sides, it can be seen that what the government has played out on is insufficient. Will the rapporteur of the Left not just calmly explain why the Left, as the only ones here, has seen the light when the criticism hails over what has come?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530104645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530104647	With the climate project we have presented, we want more people to switch to renewable energy, and that is not a disadvantage, I think we can at the same time say to citizens that they will have a lower electricity bill. The two things go hand in hand in hand in the left. That is also what I said in my rapporteur's speech, namely to relax where it is common sense to do so. Getting people to switch to more renewable energy is a healthy bourgeois policy. One does not exclude the other. But I would like to know what the Social Democrats want in this area. You've put forward an energy proposal. You have copy-pasted a lot of what we've written in ours. Now come to the negotiating table, let us now make an agreement, let us be ambitious on Denmark's behalf rather than let this lead to political dissension.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530104738	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530104742	Thank you. Thank you for a good and exciting speech, and welcome to it also as a political rapporteur. My question is directed at the debate on Denmark in balance. It does, because many Danes have thought that in the last few years we have done a very good job in ensuring that Denmark is more in balance than in the past, and perhaps we also have the impression that it is such an agenda that is long and not something you just do for a few years, and then you saddle up. Perhaps, therefore, some might be a little confused about a report that came here a couple of weeks ago about a metropolitan commission which gave the impression that the government would now place more emphasis on the capital as the great growth locomotive and thus actually forget the debate about a Denmark in balance. So I would like to hear what the rapporteur's reaction is to that and how we should interpret the position that, at least in the Left, is about this now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530104843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530104845	Thank you for the question. I am delighted that we have been able to relocate as many state jobs as we have during this reign. First we relocated 3,900, now we're moving 4,000, or we're about to do it in the near future. And that's common sense. The state jobs are not just Copenhagen's, they are all Denmark's. So I'm very, very happy about that. And I'd like to say to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that I really don't think he should be so worried. For a strong Denmark requires a strong capital, and a strong capital requires a strong Denmark. We must ensure that balance, and we have helped to ensure that balance while we have had the power of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530104931	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille... Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530104933	I'm allowed to follow up half a minute, isn't that it? Fourth Vice-President It's gonna be okay. ) It is just to say that for me a Denmark in balance is not in any way about denying that all Denmark benefits from the fact that we have a well-functioning capital. Of course it is. But as well as when the capital had problems back in the early 90s, there was actually a period when the capital was under administration from the Ministry of the Interior due to economic problems, and there came the rest of Denmark of course and helped the capital. Then it is also about now, when there are other parts of Denmark that are not running as fast as the capital, that one is prepared to give a helping hand to the other areas in Denmark, where things may not go quite as fast. That is what I am talking about when we talk about Denmark in balance... not one region against another region. Of course. The capital's gonna roar out there. The construction cranes are all over the place, you build apartments on apartments • million apartments around where you can find land for it. So I guess there's nothing like that to indicate that the steam is about to go off the growth of the capital. So a Denmark in balance is probably about continuing the effort to ensure that the growth and desire to live is founded throughout the country. I guess that's what Denmark's balance is all about. It is for us in the Danish People's Party. I hope it is for the Left too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105053	I cannot disagree with the questioner at all. We have also done many other things to ensure a Denmark in balance. Let me just mention the 16-point plan for agriculture, the liberalisation of the law on plans, and then we have set aside 19.5 billion. kr. to invest in infrastructure. We have already spent money on investing in the extension of the East Jutland motorway, the extension of the motorway across Funen. We have 19.5 billion. kr. More. That's exactly 19.5 billion. kr. more than social democracy. So I don't imagine we're gonna stop now. But of course we also need a Copenhagen in balance. One does not exclude the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105139	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105142	Thank you. I would like to continue a little where others have escaped, because the discussion is very much about whether the Left is a green party, and not least whether Denmark is still in the lead when it comes to the green transition. Mrs Britt Baker is very keen on this. But there are also 301 researchers who say otherwise. 301 researchers it is well to feel a sluggish person, to put it mildly, who has at once gathered together for one speech of debate, where they point out that Denmark really does not have much to boast about. For Denmark is still gone, too, one of the countries in the world that sets the greatest CO2 which is why I think it is actually a little appropriate to correct a mistake, as Mrs Britt Baker had said before, that the Left or the Government should have put forward a climate plan. It's not a climate plan, it's an energy plan. Climate targets have not been set, and this is a huge problem. For the fact is that if the rest of the world did what Denmark did when it came to growth and consumption, agriculture and transport, we would be in even greater trouble than we are right now if one actually followed Denmark's example. The main point of these 301 researchers is that we need to talk about that growth. We need to reduce the increase in consumption and we need to give a clear priority to the fact that consumption growth is second to climate, if we are to have a planet to pass on to our children and grandchildren. So my very brief question is: does the Left agree with the 301 researchers?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105334	I can answer that very easily: we are not. I am quite sure that if I had known that the question had come, I could have sat and dug out scientists who meant the opposite. This is often the case with researchers and experts. One statement comes from one side and one statement from the other. And then I would like to correct: yes, I came to say climate change instead of energy, and Mrs Pernille Skipper knows that we are making our climate change proposals in the non-quota sectors after the summer break. But now that Mrs Pernille Skipper says that we are not interested in climate, what does Mrs Pernille Skipper think is the reason why, in our energy project, we are making Denmark's largest offshore wind farm? Has Mrs. Pernille Skipper thought about it? And can Mrs Pernille Skipper explain to me why Denmark has been voted to have the world's best energy system; why Denmark has been voted a green entrepreneurial prize? Isn't it because we're in the driver's shirt?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105439	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105441	I can explain this very briefly: it mainly has something to do with what the previous majority decided before you came to power. There is no doubt that the energy project you have presented is slowing down the pace of renewable energy expansion. And yes, you say you're going to make a climate move, but you're not going to give a clear answer that you're also going to come up with a real climate target. I think what's amazing about the answer to the real question... and the question was whether the Left agrees with 301 climate scientists... is that you're not; research can just refuse, it just doesn't matter. The conclusion that the planet can't hold to the violent growth, you won't listen to it at all. Well, can you just grow freely? Is there no limit on consumption in relation to the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105538	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105540	Now I haven't been so long in the Folketing, but I've been here long enough, or can my story well enough to know that we've been in government for the last 13 out of 17 years. So when Mrs Pernille Skipper claims that we do not have shares in the leading position we have in Denmark, then it is simply factually wrong to factually wrong. We over-fulfil all the objectives of the previous agreement; we over-fulfil the agreement that Mr. Martin Lidegaard called history's most ambitious. So, yes, we're a green party. I can repeat what I said just now: I simply do not recognise what Pernille Skipper says about the 301 researchers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105628	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105632	Thank you. I think we will soon need to have a debate in the Danish Parliament about whether Denmark still has the yellow driver's shirt in the green. I think we can demonstrate this very quickly that we no longer have. But that's not what I wanted to ask. First of all, a warm welcome from me to the new political rapporteur of the Left, too, welcome to the club. It's not necessarily fun to stand up there for the first time, I felt that last year. So thank you for a fine speech. Now the rapporteur said that in the red block one has to look for answers long after that is what the rapporteur said. Then I came to think that in the blue bloc one must look for liberalism for a long time, because it is the case that we have seen a reduction in our freedoms over the past year. Homeless people must no longer beg on the streets; now children living in special residential areas must be forced into crèches; there has been a ban on clothing; and some people must not even decide where to live. How can the Left, as the Danish Liberal Party, defend such a development in relation to the freedoms of the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105743	Well, thank you for a very good question. I think we take a different view of being liberal or I can hear that we are doing this because at my place, this isn't about forcing kids into a day care center. It is about helping them better on their way in life; that we help them to speak the Danish language properly and adequately when they start in primary school. And it is about women, because I assume that what the rapporteur is talking about is the ban on masking should not be forced to wear a black suit from top to toe and that women can also enter the labour market, because the rapporteur would agree with me that it is quite difficult, after all, if you are dressed in a burka or a niqab.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105838	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105842	But who has allowed us to decide what is freedom for the families whose children are now going to crèche just because we think it is the best thing for them? When has it become the case that freedom is about someone having to decide what others should do and how others should live their lives? I can tell you what I understand about liberalism and then I can ask what liberalism is for the rapporteur and that is, of course, that everyone has the right to the most extensive degree of freedom, as long as it is compatible with everyone else being given the same degree of freedom. That is exactly what this is about. We must have freedom, as long as we also give the same freedom to all other groups in society, and we do not do so with these new rules and bans, which are precisely affecting some groups in society, while the others have a greater degree of freedom. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that liberalism is about all of us having the same degree of freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530105940	After all, what we are up against here is that in certain areas of our country the freedoms have been put out of business. We are talking about parallel societies, and in the Prime Minister's New Year speech, the Prime Minister said: we have to do away with the black spots in Denmark. That's why we presented this parallel society strategy that embraces so widely. That is why we want to put an end to what is happening in parallel areas of society. So I think we're interpreting this with freedom a little bit differently. We have an ambition to raise those areas and we believe that the way to do that is by helping children in the day institutions and by helping women into the labour market. I am well aware that there is a political difference between the Alternative and the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110031	Thank you. Then it's Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110038	I think, therefore, that a good liberal principle is also that you are equal before the law, that the same rules apply to people in the same situation, regardless of who they are and who they are, and also where they live. Is it not true that in the way you now intervene in relation to kindergarten children, we can have children at the same school, yes, in the same class, who have exactly the same challenges with the Danish language, but where there is one set of rules for those who live in a particular place, and another set of rules for some other children? Is that liberal? Is that right before the law? Is that worthless?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110118	I am concerned about solving the problems that are in society. I am concerned that we are getting better at integrating. And then we have to react to the fact that there are black areas in Denmark where integration has not succeeded. We have to act on this, and that is why we actually now have all the agreements on parallel societies. That is why we put forward such an ambitious plan, which went on many legs. We actually want to do away with this, and I actually thought so too, sir. Morten Østergaard did, after he had had two nights out in Gellerupparken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110154	Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110158	Yes, but the question, Mrs Britt Baker, is whether we should abandon our liberal basic principles. Is it the condition for integration that we should abandon all the principles we say we are fighting for in this country: that we are equal before the law, that we have equal value, that we help those who need it, no matter where in the country they live, and that we punish people alike, no matter where in the country they live? I think it is wrong, and I do not understand why, after an otherwise fine and colourful speech with many colours on the palette, we can say: we defend our ideas by abandoning them. For the truth is that the reality is that special rules apply to residents in particular areas. Children with the same problems in the same class may be subject to completely different conditions depending on their parents' interests, and that is what should be the modern blue liberalism.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110256	We need to start from the reality and we need to start from the problems that exist and we need to find new solutions to the problems that we have not solved, and that is what we are doing here. Then I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard: What are these values of freedom, sir? Morten Østergaard seems to live in our parallel society? Is that worthless? Is that equality? Is that tolerance? I don't see the values growing, sprouting, being respected in our parallel society. I just do not, and that is why we are putting in with new plans, new methods simply for those areas to be free of Denmark by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110344	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110345	Thank you. And welcome to the new Left political rapporteur. I can see that we share the love of green, and as Denmark's green party I would like to ask about the green area not climate, not energy, but the whole natural area. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned that she would like her son to dance around in the sand and see nature. And when we look at the natural area, the agricultural package of the government is a little in the eye. When the rapporteur says that the Left is very green, it becomes a little false marketing when you look at the agricultural package. Because what you really do is take out 23,000 hectares of Natura 2000 sites and replace it with 5,000 hectares. And I believe that even the rapporteur's son can figure out that it will be a shortage of 18 000 hectares. Is it more or less nature? Is it more or less green?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110450	So now my son is 3 years old, so I'm not really sure he's gonna be able to do the math anyway. I mean, when we got the government, we had a farm that bled. And that's why we decided to make it right. This has to be a balance between securing our profession and at the same time safeguarding our nature. That is also why we have adopted a nature package which ensures better animal life, which ensures better plant life and which invests in outdoor life in cities. I note that the SF is not entirely satisfied with the expansion that is being made in relation to Natura 2000. I note that this is something that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr cares a great deal about. And I must also say that I am quite sure that our new Minister for the Environment and Food is looking at exactly this. But I must also say that when I look at some of the areas belonging to Natura 2000, I see that these are not areas that should belong there. We have areas where there's a manure tank. Well, I guess we can agree for the hell that a manure tank isn't nature. There's got to be a balance in this, too. After all, we cannot have a number of areas under Natura 2000 which are really not nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110610	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110611	We can look at the areas in question. This is among other things. Tøndermarsken, and these are some of the acres you have chosen to take out. These are areas where the vibes breed. And as the rapporteur probably knows, the vibes breed only once a year and the vibes breed on the ground. And that means that if there is plowing on that soil, the viben will have no pups. What is the consequence of that? Yeah, we can already see it. We've lost about. 55% of the vibes in Denmark • a bird that we actually associate with Denmark. It is a decline in biodiversity, it is a decline in nature. That is why I think it is very fair for the rapporteur to say: we must balance agriculture and nature, and here we have chosen agriculture, which means that here we are less green, but we are willing to look at replacement nature. I almost hear that the government is opening up more hectares than the 5,000 hectares that have been said before. Is that 23,000 ha? Is that what the rapporteur promises on the platform today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110718	Just to correct Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr: I did not say that we had preferred agriculture in no way. I say this is a balance between agriculture and nature. We have also laid out 13,300 hectares of forest for untouched forests to ensure biodiversity, to ensure a rich plant life, a rich wildlife, which I can also hear Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's concern. I cannot stand here and guarantee what ends with Natura 2000 sites. I just can't. But I can promise you that our new Minister for the Environment and Food has promised to look at it, and he has promised to find an agreement that is balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110758	Thank you. Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110800	Thank you, and also welcome from my side, to Mrs Britt Baker as a political rapporteur. I would like to return to the part of the green that is about energy. Of course, I also followed closely the almost Pia Raugian review of the colors of the palette and the colors of the rainbow. Maybe I like Pia Raug's song better. Nevertheless, I find it interesting that, if all the colors of the palette are mixed into one in this way, it is unfortunately not green but brown. When we come to negotiations with the government and we always show up when we're invited to visit, there's almost always a hidden agenda that's about tax breaks somewhere. That is why I would like to know: can the rapporteur not just say what is most important for the Left in connection with the energy proposal? Is the most important part about removing some of the various energy taxes, or is the most important the small part, that is, what is about green investment in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110908	I just want to say that you can normally hear that side of the House, but it is a bit of a mess right now. So you have to talk a little louder if you're gonna expect answers and then you can hear it from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530110919	I think we will have to start with a small colour course, because that is actually the way it is, Mr President. Benny Engelbrecht, that if you mix blue and green, you get the most beautiful turquoise. If you mix red and green, you get a very, very muddy brown • very muddy brown. If we are then to go ahead with our climate and energy proposals, I must admit that I did not actually hear exactly what it was, but I assume that the rapporteur is asking about the financing of our new energy proposals. No? But that is what I am replying to, because I simply did not hear what the rapporteur said. We have, of course, put forward an energy proposal, placing 15 billion on the line. kr. In addition, there is a need for new initiatives. I think it is a very ambitious proposal. I also saw that the Social Democratic Party presented a proposal. I think that is also ambitious. Actually, I think it's a really good play. That is why I am also surprised that we cannot sit down and negotiate an agreement in this area. We have a tradition of this in Denmark. We have a tradition of major climate agreements, large agreements that ensure that we also have a green Denmark in the future. I would just like to call on the Social Democrats to do so: come on to the negotiating table, let us show once again that we are united in a green Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111038	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111038-2	I promise the President-in-Office that I shall be a little more rock-and-roll-like, so that it is clear, even to Mrs Britt Baker, what I am asking. What I asked you about is because we know that the Left and the Government often have hidden tax concessions to the negotiating table, and we always come to the negotiating table when we are invited to • was: what is the most important thing for the Left? Is it the big part of the energy play that is about the relief of taxes, or is it the small part of the play-out that is about the important green ambitions? There is no doubt that for social democracy, it is of course a question of an energy initiative that must be ambitious on the green future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111122	Well, I can just say to sir. Benny Engelbrecht, that I stand by the fact that we are lowering taxes in our climate and energy projects. I am firmly committed to this because, as I said in my speech, this can go on two legs. We must make quite good sense in relaxing those taxes. That is also what the wise men recommend. You also recommend that we relax those charges. But what does the Social Democrats want? What about the funding of the Social Democratic Party? Where will you take the money from for your big chrome-plated plan? We still need answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111204	Thank you. We'll stay on the same side of the hall. It's sir. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111208	Thank you. I think that has been said many times, and the Left ought to know for itself that there are plenty of resources in the PRS agreement we have made to make an ambitious energy settlement that will actually bring us much longer than the government is proposing. Mrs Britt Baker had to correct herself in view of the fact that it was a climate project that the government had put forward. Because it wasn't. I can help you out a little bit. It is, in fact, most of all a tax proposal that has been put forward again. So I think you should call it that. I am able to produce a little cheerfulness on the platform, but Mrs Britt Baker must admit that in fact a very, very large part of the proposal that has been put forward is not about climate at all, but about reducing electricity taxes. 4.5 billion kr. to reduce the general electricity tax only. We agree on that, I see, because it's getting nodded. Will Mrs Britt Baker not only confirm that the President of the Climate Council actually says that this is not a very good idea from a climate point of view. So it's both expensive and you want to take it from the welfare money and the chairman of the Climate Council says that it's actually not a very good idea to do what the government is proposing in terms of climate. Can't Mrs Britt Baker confirm that's what's going on here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111328	But now all of a sudden I wonder whether the Social Democrats are not prepared to move much more towards renewable energy. Is the Social Democratic Party not prepared for at least 50% by 2030? by the Danes be switched to renewable energy? Does the Social Democrats not think that it is a good idea for us to make a technology-neutral offer where we equate sun and wind? Does the Social Democrats not think that it is a good idea for us to expand, so that we have the largest offshore wind farm in Danish history? Or is the only thing the Social Democrats are interested in where the money should come from? I simply do not hear an ambitious social democracy in this area. I hear a social democracy that will eat of the room and relax its ambitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111416	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111418	I hardly know where to start with the answer given by Mrs Britt Baker. We have to get it written out afterwards, because there are so many mistakes and strange comments in the answer given by Mrs Britt Baker. Just before, the Social Democratic Party was praised for having made a very ambitious proposal, which also involves three offshore wind farms, where the government is proposing one; which involves energy savings, where the government wants it dropped; which involves considerably more funds for energy research than where the government is putting in, namely where it wants less money. So yes, it is a much more ambitious proposal than what the government is putting forward. We are very happy to negotiate, but we want to negotiate climate policy. We do not want to negotiate electricity tax reductions, which are what the government wants to spend money on, not just from what we can call the green room for manoeuvre, but from the money that the Prime Minister himself has been sitting at a New Year's speech, looked the Danes into the eye and promised to go to welfare. Now that money is going to be spent on lowering the electricity tax instead. A tax proposal has been put forward, with fewer ambitions on almost all points than what we have put forward. And we have the funding in the green area under control. Mrs Britt Baker now has the chance to correct the many errors that were made in the answer just now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111530	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111532	I simply do not know how mistakes can be made when I asked a question. I didn't finish anything. I asked if the Social Democratic Party would join in. So I didn't finish anything. I asked an open question, as Mr. Jesper Petersen had the opportunity to answer, and he did not. It is quite true that in our energy project we want a offshore wind farm. It is also quite true that the Social Democratic Party wants three. The difference is that we have said one up to 2022 and that we there will decide whether more needs to be developed. I think that's good sense. Wait and see what happens. We have said one by 2022. This does not mean that there will be no more offshore wind farms on the contrary. And then Mr. Jesper Petersen well that when it comes to climate policy in the non-quota sectors, it comes after the summer holiday. So, of course, I can't do that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111632	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111633	I want to change paths. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left about the situation in our hospitals. The rapporteur presented a sunshine story, but the reality in the hospitals in the departments is quite different, and the conditions for the employees are not brilliant. We all know that after years of so-called efficiency, employees are running stronger and stronger. I also think we all know that when it comes to the interaction between people and caring, running stronger is not a quality, rather the opposite. That is why I am deeply, deeply concerned. We have just been through a process of collective bargaining in which the civil servants were in a situation that had to awaken to really deep reflection. For no, you cannot use the golden color when describing the situation in the hospitals. The Danish Regions had to exempt 292 hospital units from emergency preparedness, because in many departments it simply corresponded to the normal attendance. About a fifth of them were unable to provide the necessary emergency response. And if you look at everyday life, there are also major problems with overcrowding. In every fifth hospital department in March, that is, just recently, there were too many patients for too few beds, and we know it is well documented that overcrowding is not only unpleasant, but it is also directly fatal. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether the Left sees any danger signals here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111806	Thank you very much for the question, and thank you for changing the subject now and talking about some of what is also very important for our society, namely health care. It is therefore essential that we discuss it, and it is also essential that we put forward what will happen, both if the Left retains the power of government, but indeed if we in Denmark are so unlucky that it should change. In the time we have had government power, we have strengthened health care by 4.4 billion. kr. We have also, as one of the first things we did when we took over the government, made an emergency package of 415 million. kr. in order to eliminate the overcrowding because, of course, patients cannot be served as sick people, even as relatives, because there are patients on the halls. That is also what Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt went to the polls, namely to abolish the presence of patients on the corridors. We've done something about it. We've invested 415 million. kr. To get rid of this problem. I am well aware that the task is not complete. I am well aware that there are still challenges out there. But I must also say that the regions must also look at each other. The bad regions must see what the good do. We have put this to the regions and they will also have to take on the task of planning this better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530111937	Yes, but it is true that even if extra money has been allocated, and it has been tried on many occasions, it does not apply per person. patient, and the fact is, there are increasing numbers of patients. And it does not seem to me that there are any proposals for a solution at all when one can see that just a few months ago one could make up for the fact that everything was still gone, too many on the corridors, and when one can still make up for the fact that it is not possible to prepare emergency preparedness in a conflict situation, because the daily staffing is as weak as they are, because there is simply not enough staff. And there I think a much, much greater effort needs to be made, and I would like to ask the Left what they intend to do about that. After they have allocated a great deal of money, after they have solved all the problems, after they have asked the regions to resolve the problems further, what is to be done about them?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112032	Well, I actually think that this discussion will have to deal with the responsibilities of the regions. Because it is of no use that we sit here in the Folketing and say that we will decide everything in the regions. We have the bad regions must look to the good ones. Four out of five regions are run by the Social Democratic Party. We invest massively in our health care. We want to put an end to this problem, but there is also a management responsibility out there; there is a leadership that must take shape.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112103	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112106	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I'm happy to join you in the hunt for the gold at the end of the rainbow. However, I would like to continue a little along the same lines, and I would like to go back to 2015. After all, there was a health issue on the left, and the present Prime Minister said that the regions had this parliamentary term prove their worth. It is the case today that there are long waiting lists in several parts of the country, and among other things. In the hearing loss treatment area there are 123 weeks of waiting, over 2 years, for a hearing aid and for treatment of hearing loss. One of the seven objectives of the Left was to reduce the waiting time for diagnosis and treatment. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that the regions have fulfilled their responsibilities and what will happen to the regions after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112207	It is an exciting discussion, this discussion about the regions, and it appears in time and early. After all, it is because the regions are taking on such a responsibility as they are doing, as large an area as they are doing, something that is important to all of us. So, we in the Left right now have no current plans to abolish the regions, but I think that this is an exciting discussion, and it is one that we should sit down and take at regular intervals, and I would also like to invite the Danish People's Party to come into that discussion and talk about what the future is for the regions. But as things stand right now, we have no plans to abolish them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112250	So I have to understand the rapporteur's satisfaction with what the regions are delivering. That is precisely what we were setting a target for. One of the things you put down was, uh... Seven objectives for the regions, if the Left came to power during this parliamentary term, and they did. But we have waiting lists, and here last week, on 24 May, the Minister of Health was out scolding the regions that they were also abandoning the mentally ill. That is why it is important to ask questions. Does the Left believe that the regions are fulfilling their responsibilities? And what will happen to the regions after an election? In other words, three years have passed since the Left was out to say that the regions would have to be closed down if they failed to fulfil their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112336	Well, this treatment time thing is a very, very relevant question, and fortunately it's something we've been delivering on. In 2001, the wait for treatment was 90 days, today it is 43 days. Well, that's definitely better, you just have to say. That is not to say that nothing more needs to be done, because of course more needs to be done, but we have also deprived the regions of the need for productivity. They must also face up to their responsibilities. I think there are a lot of things you can do better out there - a lot of things. But I just have to say once again that the debate on whether or not the regions should be closed down, I think we should take it easy. I cannot stand here and say from the platform of the Folketing that it has Left thoughts on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112421	Thank you. The last question to be asked about the rapporteur on the Left, Mrs Britt Baker, is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112428	Thank you. Following the Left in the debate on the green is a bit like watching an incredibly long version of the 1980s classic •Being riding with the crazy; it sails from one side to the other. First you spend three years cutting down on all the greens, and then five minutes in closing time you agree with yourself that you'd better try to deliver something in this area, and then you're suddenly wearing green clothes. I think the Danes can see that it is not credible. But that's fair enough. If it is suddenly important for the Left with the green, should we not try together to lift the green research and not just fill the gap that the Left has created with the massive savings on green research since 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112508	Thank you again for bringing up the green topic. Well, I also think that research is important, and that is what we in the Left think in general. After all, we also meet the demand that we should invest in research as a percentage. We are also launching our energy initiative, I think it is actually 580 million. DKK, to invest in green research. So of course we will research, I say to Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, and we can stand here and compete for who is the most green and how the colors are mixed. But what I'm worried about, and what I'm concerned about, is that we're gonna get this country this agreement, and that after the next parliamentary elections, Denmark has still made a broad agreement on this. We have done so since the 1970s, and we must of course do so now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112604	Yeah, but it's just not entirely credible, and this isn't a competition. There is, of course, a reality in relation to whether we are laying the foundations for the green jobs that I believe we share the ambition to create. The government will set aside 580 million. kr. for green research, and when we left government in 2015, we had set aside over 800 million. kr. to the same area. So you cannot try to convince the Danes that, on the one hand, you want to be green and have ambitions in the green area and, on the other hand, you want to cut so massively. It simply does not add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112642	After all, we can stand here and pull individual parameters out of agreements; no one gets smarter than that. This has to be seen in a context and, as I said just now, we are living up to all the goals set by the former SR government. That deal, sir. Martin Lidegaard called the most ambitious in history, we live up to. That's not bad. Now come to the table and tell me where you think the money should come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112713	Thank you to the political rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Britt Baker. Then we can welcome Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530112734	Thank you very much. Recently, a large, beautiful whale was found at the edge of the Norwegian coast. It had swam on land, and the Coast Guard then several times tried to get this whale back to sea, but the whale kept swimming back in by itself, and then it was lying there on the edge of the water and was becoming more and more desecrated. Finally, they killed the whale, and when the zoologists opened their stomachs, they found no less than 30 plastic bags tangled in the stomach of this fine whale. It had literally eaten itself to death in our garbage. The amount of waste, pollution and CO2 we simply cannot be aware of. Although today's government continues to claim that it is oh so green I even think it has been called the greenest ever and that we in Denmark in general are always proud of being a pioneer country, unfortunately it is not the whole truth. Firstly, the development of renewable energy has in practice come to a complete halt. The government is blocking higher ambitions in the EU and has itself presented a proposal that puts us in the back of the bus when it comes to the green transition. Secondly, where Denmark and the rich part of the world are still firmly in the driver's seat, when it comes to the image we put on the globe, it is with our consumption, our agriculture and our transport. If everyone else in the world actually took it literally and did what we do, then we would have really big problems. Right now, we also have the hottest May ever, and the researchers are crystal clear: within the next few years we must have reversed the trend, and the Danish and international emissions are going to fall drastically and not just a little bit. This is necessary if it is not to have fatal consequences for our planet and for future generations who are going to live here. This means that we would do well to continue discussing the green transition, because the next choice is crucial. This is the next choice to be the climate choice. That is why it is good that such green competition has started in here. It's still mostly about being good at harassing people on the run from war and terror, but now it's also about being greenest. I would say that especially me and people at my height have not really been able to avoid noticing how eager especially the Left has been to be a part of this green competition, because when you are about. 1.65 m high, you have the climate and energy minister's tie at eye level, and that tie has been really green lately. But he hasn't been the only one. I've noticed that just about there, when the play came, all sails were set, and they had simply tie coordinated in the government and then we know that you mean it, right? I am a little sorry that this has not been repeated today. It'll come, I'll be told by the PM. There will be tie coordinated again later with the green ties. But that can't do it. Well, it can't do waving a tie and coloring the logos green. In a way, the Prime Minister and the team of ministers are in fact reminiscent of the Titanic orchestra. The boat takes in water, and the consideration for short-term solutions, tax breaks and this blind economic growth means that you talk green but you don't act green. That is why it is clear that we need a new government. It is with the opposition parties that we find the very high ambitions, and we are pleased about that. As others have remarked, it is not always that we agree with the block, but here we really have something to stand together about. It is also here that parties like Enhedslisten insist that it should not be the subclass that has to pay the bill, while the richest continue with the high consumption and much more than the earth can sustain. Fortunately, the green transition can and must go hand in hand with a fairer distribution of resources. Now it is time for us to take responsibility in here, so do many people outside Christiansborg. However, we also need to take responsibility for the vulnerable residential areas, and this must not least be about the people who live there. We are taking a small shift, because in this spring the people who live in vulnerable residential areas have again had to lay their backs on many things, so that parties in here have been able to get themselves at the forefront of the headlines and have come to act decisively. This has led to agreements on 0th class stop tests, on forced learning courses on the basic law for children who have barely learned to walk and cannot put a sentence together yet, and it has also led to an agreement that vulnerable families should be threatened with further poverty in the form of a deprived children's check if the children do not meet in school, while the same families can then read in the papers that they should be concerned about whether it is their apartments that are to be demolished or sold from to private. In fact, things are actually moving forward in the vulnerable residential areas. Crime is raging, education is rising, and it is because there are residents who are engaging, it is because there is a strong housing social effort, fortunately, and we must continue to do so. But the answer from the government, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the SF has been that then the ghetto criteria have changed. Then you are quite sure that you have something to point at again another time, even though developments are actually positive in terms of crime and education. And it only really bears witness to how little it is about the residents of the exposed areas and how much it is about Christiansborg's let us be hardest at aliens' media circus. There are problems in the vulnerable residential areas, but it is in general for the agreements that have been reached that problems with unemployment, poverty and language are not what is actually being tackled. The agreements will in a good day push the problems around and on a bad day make them worse. The residents who need help meet with threats and coercion. If you implement the plans to tear down apartments and sell off general rentals, we may lack up to 11,000 family homes. That's kind of the Ministry's own figures. But not one of the parties to the agreement has a plan for where the people who have their homes there today eat their dinner there, put their children in those apartments, then have to live there. And if you implement the ban on allowing people on cash benefits to move in, yes, it is another attack on people affected by unemployment, disease, disability, who have been hunted for years. But dear parties to the agreements, the Socialists, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the SF, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, it is incredible, but unfortunately we need to point this out once more: you do not get up from the sick bed, you do not enchant a handicap because you are pressed on the wallet. And people affected by unemployment, mental illness or heavy social problems, for that matter, do not disappear from Denmark's territory because you tear down their homes. They also need a place to live, they need to be here too. It is crazy that there is a need to say that, but there is. They must also have a place to live, they must also be allowed to be here. I will use my very last minute to say that unfortunately it is somewhat of a tendency that there is hardly a day when the Prime Minister does not use the chance to remind us all how well things are going for the Danish economy. This morning, too, it was not really a new point that came from the Prime Minister that Denmark is back in top shape, we must understand. But whether we are in the top shape or in crisis, there are some unemployed people who need to be hunted. The Minister for Employment has also presented today another bag of really bad news for the unemployed and, in particular, the unemployed, who have some form of disability, illness, a disability, social problems, which means that they cannot just take a job. When there is a crisis and thousands of people lose their jobs, the unemployed have to pay with a shorter period of unemployment benefit. When things are going well, as they are now, the unemployed must also be hunted. They must be whipped off, and you must be denied the security of knowing that you can actually quit without losing your house and home if you work under bad conditions. It's like you can't really leave it in the government. It's some kind of compulsion you can't let go of. But, let me say as my very last sentence, we can actually do it differently. There is advice, it is possible to choose to ensure a welfare society for the many with security and with green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530113758	A number would like to ask a few questions about that. We'll start with sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530113804	Thank you. After all, the Enhedslisten has adopted new parliamentary principles: that it will not guarantee support for a social democratic government. If there are things that Enhedslisten thinks are too much, then you are ready to pull the blanket away. That is why I think it would be nice to have a clear answer to the question: if Mrs Mette Frederiksen's words here today are to stand up for believers, how will Enhedslisten act if there is a majority pointing to Mette Frederiksen after the next elections, and a government led by Mette Frederiksen is pursuing an alien policy which is in exactly the opposite direction than that of the Enhedslisten? Will this be one of the elements that Enhedslisten will be able to use to pull the curtain away under a possible social democratic government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530113858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530113859	In the Enhedslisten, as has been said, we have adopted some new parliamentary tools, and they are so safe and well down there in the toolbox completely without being used in hypothetical situations, but ready to be so in concrete terms. And so I have answered the question that is being asked and that there are probably more who have prepared themselves to ask in other pretense ways. We will assess when they become useful in specific situations. We will not make a hypothetical assessment of this. Does this mean that once we have created these new parliamentary tools, we must decide everything under a new government, hopefully? No, it does not, but it means, in all silence, that we expect all the parties which vote for a new government to be heard, and that, of course, also applies to the area of foreigners. We must not decide everything, but of course we must also be heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530113959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114001	Yes, but should the Enhedslisten be more than heard? Or does the Enhedslisten require influence? And if the Enhedslisten does not have any influence, will the new parliamentary principles be activated? It is a little interesting when the Social Democrats' President talks about the logic and mathematics of the mandates, because the only thing that has changed since the 2011 parliamentary elections when the message from the Social Democratic Party was exactly the same thing that one would not relax the policy of foreigners and where the logic of the mandates, which is the expression that the Social Democratic President now likes to use, was exactly the same as it might be after an election, the majority had to change, is that the Enhedslisten has changed principles. So how much value does Enhedslisten attach to the statements by the President of the Social Democratic Party about the logic of the mandates in terms of foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114050	The Enhedslisten has had a self-examination as well as criticism to hand out after the previous government, and I do not think anyone is in any doubt as to what it was for tax reform that made us very much up to argue to say it as it is. There was the teacher lockout where the teachers were drummed, and there were many points of discussion. It made us assess whether we should have any new parliamentary tools ready in the box. Yeah, we are. We can make demands on a social democratic government. It can also get so far out and get so far away that we will pull the blanket away. Does this mean that Enhedslisten's policy on foreign affairs, on education, on climate, on energy must be fully implemented one by one? No, it doesn't. When these tools are to be used will be done after a concrete assessment in the specific situations, but it is a signal that one can get so far away that it may be necessary, but at the same time, I must bear in mind, it is a signal that we do not of course expect everything to be implemented on all points.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114200	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114201	Thank you. I think it was blessed Sweyn Auken who once said about the Radical Left that holding radical politics was just as difficult as nailing pudding onto a wall. I was just thinking about it now that Mrs Pernille Skipper had to explain these new parliamentary principles. I do not know if anyone in this Chamber is able to explain what they were doing. Like weaver, you have to look for a long time. And if there's something that Enhedslisten is always after in relation to the rest of us, the clear answer is now that we really have to be answerable and tell exactly what we think about all sorts of things between heaven and earth. But when it comes to what it really is for some parliamentary principles, the Enhedslisten is building on its future work, it is well in the dark. That is something about: self-examination, we have had a criticism and there was a tax reform once, and we will not deny that we might at some point, if we have supported a government, pull the blanket under it again. Is that the clearest answer that Mrs Pernille Skipper is able to give today to that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114300	Excuse me, sir. I just think that sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl also used that picture with the pudding the last time we had a debate. Could be, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl should just get the repertoire updated a little bit. The answer will be the same. The Enhedslisten has said very clearly that we can get away so far when we add votes to a new majority that we have to ask the voters again. Is this true in the field of foreigners? Yes, it does. Do we expect to be heard in all areas? Of course we do. When we put mandates to a majority, we expect to be heard. Do we expect there to be total agreement on all things? No. I think that is quite the same as the relationship that is over on the right side of the House. Completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114351	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114352	I can suggest that I will probably use the quote again. That is a good quote, and it is becoming more and more true as I hear Mrs Pernille Skipper, because that is if we take the area of foreigners as an example. After all, this is an area in which a great many Danes are concerned, also in relation to what is happening in the future. Can one imagine the situation where Enhedslisten does not get any relaxation in the area of foreigners and yet supports a government? To take this as a very specific example: can one imagine that there will be no relaxations or improvements, as the leader of the Radicals, Mr. Morten Østergaard, usually say "in the field of foreigners," and you still support a government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114438	I have another turn I've used before. My grandfather had a turn like that where he said you could be deaf. It could be that sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl had to think about it a little bit. The answer is that I am not going to take a position on hypothetical situations. This will be a concrete assessment in the specific situation. That's politics. By the way, I think that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl would answer exactly the same. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl may have a list at home in his drawer of the exact places where the Prime Minister can expect to be overthrown if he violates them, but Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl doesn't put it out, does he?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114521	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114522	Thank you. I want to change paths. It is no secret that there are some areas where the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance do not agree, but there are also some areas where we agree. One of them is, in fact, the legalisation of cannabis, and then I would hear the rapporteur now, who is blowing new winds in the Social Democratic Party with the Social Democratic Group chairman, Henrik Sass Larsen, who in his new book advocates the legalisation of cannabis, whether the rapporteur has had time to talk to the Social Democratic Mette Frederiksen about these new winds, this new sense, which is at least in some parts of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114609	We have probably had time to do so, but we have not turned that particular proposal in concrete terms, i.e. myself and the President of the Socialists. I'm afraid I've had time to see sir. Nicolai Wammen on TV reacted to it, and that was a little too bad. At the same time, I would say that it is true that the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslist have actually worked together on this for a few years, a good year, and I think that together we should see the statements that have also come from parts of the Socialist Group as a very good sign that it is blowing in the right direction. It also does so internationally, where more and more places have started to do controlled hash sales, so you can get it away from the criminal gangs. Several states in the United States are doing what are also countries in Europe where drugs are decriminalised, and we have good experiences at home with heroin schemes and fixerums. In other words, we need a different approach to drugs policy, and so do we. I am actually inclined to say that if we had a secret vote in the Folketing on this, it would be introduced. It's just a matter of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114721	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114722	Thank you for that, thank you for a very nice speech. I'd like to ask you about some of the green stuff again. After all, we share many ambitions in the green area. Sometimes it is a little set up as that it is either only a political responsibility, or it is only a personal responsibility to contribute to reducing climate change, and somewhere I just don't think we can see the two separately, because we have to act in some way politically and in a way, so that we as a consumer are also helped to take that responsibility. And there I would like to ask Enhedslisten how you look at it, i.e. whether we can find a way to reconcile this and whether we can get around or get over the point where we keep saying that it is only us politicians who have to decide something, and then consumers can otherwise just live as they used to, or is it somehow to see it in a wider overall perspective?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114811	It is true that this is where we are faced with one of the dilemmas of the green transition. On the one hand, there are many who push away responsibility politically and tell us that it is about consumers voting with their feet, and what I know, but on the other hand there are some who say that it has nothing to do with the consumption of the individual. The truth is somewhere in between. I think it is really important that we stick to the fact that Denmark is one of the richest countries in the world, and the world is also really, really rich, but the benefits that are are are distributed very, very unequally, and if we continue to insist that the top section of the population, both in Denmark and in the rest of the world, should be richer and richer and should not share it to a greater extent, the planet cannot hold onto it in the long term. That's one thing. So there's some redistribution in this, which we have to hold on to, that's going to go hand in hand with. At the same time, our consumption needs to be redirected, and we can do a great deal ourselves, which does not, as such, reduce our standard of living, with recycling and different consumption, and so we also have to nudge from here, for example. I would also like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114930	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530114931	Thank you, and we are in complete agreement with that. I would like to use my second question on something else. I hadn't prepared that, but it was because this morning an email appeared in my inbox saying that the Children's Council has made a new study with the headline: Society is breaking down children and young people with performance pressure and drowning them in disarray. A new study has simply been carried out which shows that today there are record numbers of children and young people who are simply disillusioned. There are so many children in school age who feel pressured every day, and many do so sometimes. But there's 21%. of the 8th grade youths who feel pressured every day. The Prime Minister said in his speech this morning that some more money will also be allocated to psychiatry, and that is fine, but I think it is basically some other things that are wrong with our society when so many young people feel bad. Can't Enhedslisten tell us what we're doing wrong here in Denmark, since these numbers are something we're looking at a day like today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115027-2	I agree, of course, that we have major problems in psychiatry, but that is not prevention. Well, we have a problem with stress and pressure, especially among young girls, but we must not forget the young boys. And I think that a large part of the root of all this is in our educational system. These are progress reforms, they are character races and rules on multiplying grades. And I also believe that more and more people are beginning to realize that you cannot continue to pressure young people to have an eternal focus on being the best and running fastest and getting the right job and making the right choices right away, without it also having a consequence for their lives and their health and their joy. So that's why I think I'm just gonna send a friendly thought to sir. Søren Pind, who has left the Folketing, but who ended up sending a small flick to his own party on that occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115130	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115131	I would like to speak to Mrs Pernille Skipper about the room for manoeuvre. In other words, the economy created by decisions over time, which enables us to look forward to opportunities for prioritising things such as increased welfare and green conversion, and what we might now find out in the coming years. And you can make sure of that by looking at the publications coming from the government about what it looks like. And, of course, we have the well-known political debate on what should be the priority. I believe that on some lines we agree that education and green conversion are priorities too low now and here. But what is common to all the projections is that they are based on the fact that many come to Denmark to work. In other words, there is an availability for foreign labour. If foreign workers were not here, there would be no room for manoeuvre either. And that is why my question to Mrs Pernille Skipper is this: if the Enhedslisten helps to make it harder to attract foreign labour and has a sceptical attitude towards free movement, is it also aware that if you came through with your policy, it would reduce access to the welfare of the Danes, because the room for manoeuvre would then be reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115247	I do not think that is a correct conclusion. It is quite true that Enhedslisten has some scepticism about importing foreign labour or, let me put it quite correctly, allowing companies to import foreign labour without proper, orderly Danish conditions. For that means wage dumping and pressure on the pay and working conditions that we have in Denmark if this is not done under orderly conditions. This does not mean that you are not welcome in Denmark as a worker. This certainly does not mean that we also do not need foreign labour in specific occupations, perhaps even if we are going to lack hands in the future. We need it, but it has to be in orderly conditions. And that is why we are sceptical about freedom of movement, as Mr. Morten Østergaard says because it very much and in many cases prevents us from making demands on companies that need foreign labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115348	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115350	I was sitting right here on the edge of the chair ready to smoke up and say: Yes, we agree. I thought it was so sensible until the end, when Mrs Pernille Skipper still has doubts as to what Enhedslisten really thinks. What I need to hear is whether there is an understanding that the more than 250,000 foreigners who are in Denmark create welfare through their work and their tax payments, and that it is therefore the case that if a majority in the Folketing succeeds in implementing a policy that reduces the entry of foreign labour in the coming years, then there will be less welfare. I agree that it has to be on fixed terms, but if you cut the question to the bone: if we could ensure that it always took place on contractual terms, was Mrs Pernille Skipper ready to get even more welfare by inviting even more skilled foreigners to Denmark, who can pay our high taxes and contribute to our hospitals, our educations and all the good that we would like with the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115449	I would like to start by saying that I would like to be excused by insinuating that we in the Enhedslisten do not respect or value people from other countries who work in Denmark and pay their taxes and participate in society. There are too many people in this room who don't respect people from other countries in very, very many ways • The Enhedslisten is not one of them. Where we have a great deal of disrespect is for employers who abuse poor people in other countries by importing them into Denmark and getting them to work in uncoordinated conditions here and thus not only harm the people who work but also pay and working conditions here in Denmark. We have a problem with that. Our aim is to ensure orderly conditions for everyone, and then we really don't care where they come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115543	Thank you. Then it's SF and mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115546	Over the years, the Enhedslisten has blamed the European Union for all kinds of accidents and evil. It is from sad financial laws with antisocial cuts to the deplorable condition of eelgrass in the South Funen Archipelago and to the declining hairline among the country's pensioners. And now that you believe that it is so awful, it is clear that you want to get out of the soup, out of the European Union. That's not so strange. Intoxicated and excited by the fact that the English will leave the European Union, the Enhedslisten also proposed that we should have a vote on relations with the European Union, and it should actually take place on the day of the Constitution this year, that is to say as early as next week. How's it going? When are we going to have that referendum in the opinion of the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115628	Hopefully not next week then. The Enhedslisten would like to have a vote on the Danish relationship with the EU. There is nowhere near being a majority for it right now, so it is not exactly the case. And by the way, I'm glad that Mr. Karsten Hønge joined the field, now that I can't see Holger K. Nielsen in the hall, because it's usually me and him who have this little EU dance. The Enhedslisten wants strong international cooperation. We want international cooperation that puts environmental considerations, people, the ability to tackle climate challenges and environmental problems and refugees together at the forefront and at the market and the free movement of businesses. That is our basic hope. Can this be achieved by changing the Treaty basis and the EU from within? And if we can also achieve more democratic international cooperation, then we will work for it, and then we will be on that road. We do not believe that, and that is why we want to try to build something else. I really think it would suit SF that you do not talk over and over again about what Enhedslisten wants, but spend your time changing the EU from within, as SF always says you can, but have not succeeded.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115746	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115747	That is perhaps an interesting answer in many ways, although I now think it was mostly filled with snitch talk. Perhaps Mrs Pernille Skipper could now, in the second round, actually come near to replying to what I am asking, namely when we are going to have this referendum. I just think that it is only a year since we were very excited about it and that we should now have this vote. A date had even been set, and it should be next week. Now it becomes a once-in-a-lifetime talk about the SF sticking to its own policy. However, it is a question of me asking Mrs Pernille Skipper when we will have the vote. What does Enhedslisten want? There is no point in announcing a vote and then simply drawing ashore. And the explanation that Mrs Pernille Skipper now gives, namely that there is no majority in favour of it, does not normally prevent the Enhedslisten from tabling motions for resolutions, although it does not know in advance whether there is a majority in favour of it. That's not the story in the Folketing. So the question is, should we stay or should we go now?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115836	The Enhedslisten wants a vote on Denmark's relationship with the EU. We've said that out loud. There is no majority in favour of it immediately; it is not something that stands for. And the answer is that such a vote cannot be announced as one party. As long as there is no majority in favour of it, there will be no vote. When are we gonna get it? When there's a majority for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530115905	With these words, I interrupt the meeting so that we can have the long-awaited lunch. We will resume the sitting at 1 p.m. 13:00 a.m. and the first one asks at 1:00 a.m. 13 is Mr. Orla Østerby. Mrs Pernille Skipper must, of course, be ready by 1 p.m. 13.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130028	The meeting is open. We shall now proceed to the debate on Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). F 37. It's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance or how is it? No, there are still questions for Mrs Pernille Skipper. Sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130052	Thank you. In April 2018, the Enhedslisten presented a plan for what they would change in Denmark for the first 100 days, if you were heeded as you had power. Some of the plans state that the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit will be abolished. The text states that the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule, the integration allowance and the special low level of cash assistance for young unemployed people are being abolished. Now I understand from Mrs Pernille Skipper that the new parliamentary toolbox has been upgraded. So I would like to hear: will the support of the Enhedslisten be a red government that will not abolish the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, as Enhedslisten writes in the 100-day plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130152	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130154	Thank you. I think the rapporteur came to trade and say: if we had watched as we had power. Then Enhedslisten would be a far more boring party than we are. The plan is called 100 days with Enhedslisten and it's about what we'd do if we got power as we've been watching, and then it's gonna be fun. It shows that we can get very, very far • that it is possible and feasible to expand our welfare society, be decent to people on the run while getting very far with the green transition and climate goals. Then it is true that what we have then said we would do for the first 100 days if we had the power was to abolish some of these unfair poverty benefits, some that unfortunately have come to under the former Socialist Government, some that have come to under it here and which are primarily about, yes, chasing people who have lost their jobs or have a disease or a disability and thus cannot be fully available to the labour market. Then again we are asked about these parliamentary tools, and as I said before: Hypothetical situations do not relate to those tools. These are some that we can use in specific situations if we consider that to be correct. It is also quite true that a new government which supported the Enhedslisten... I have run out of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130314	Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130317	I'm gonna try one more time. If the Enhedslisten gets power, and it seems that it could be that way after an election, if we were so unlucky to have a red government, then I wonder if we could face a situation where we see the Enhedslisten, as we saw them under the last red government, where they were very unhappy with the government, but did not take the consequences, but still were those who voted for even the very worst thistles. That is why I ask once again: will the Enhedslisten support a red government that will not abolish the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit? Will a government in these areas be supported if it is not done away with by the government in accordance with your 100-day plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130416	I simply have to correct again, and this time a little more seriously: the Enhedslisten has not voted in favour of one of the things for which we criticised the former Thorning Government. Not one of those whom the rapporteur calls thistles was implemented with the votes of the Enhedslisten. All those thistles were something that the right-wing in the Assembly Hall cast votes on. It was tax reforms with top tax relief, it was the teacher lockout, all those things. Not one of those things was with the voices of the Enhedslisten. And no, I can promise you that the Enhedslisten will not in future add votes to such things either. There is no doubt about that. Are we getting everything through under a new government? No, we don't, but we're never gonna add votes to such things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130459	We don't talk directly to each other. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130504	Well, that's not quite the point, sir. Orla Østerby went on. The question was whether Enhedslisten is just going to accept that they are being put out of control. Under the previous government relief was provided for the former Red Government. Now we have a government in which, if you go to the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, you can see such a tight meter that measures how many times we have tightened the immigration policy. We've done that 76 times, and I can tell you that we're not done yet. We intend to continue to pursue a very strict immigration policy. The Socialists have today indicated that they intend to support us in this. Even if they gain power, they intend to conduct foreign policy around Enhedslisten with us. So it will not be Mrs Pernille Skipper or Mrs Zenia Stampe who will be conducting foreign policy. It'll be Inger Løjberg, it'll be Marcus Knuth, Naser Khader, myself and Martin Henriksen. Is Enhedslisten going to accept that? I think that is important for the electorate to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130605	In order to be quite correct, ministers are referred to as ministers with the ministerial title. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130612	It's going well. Whether Enhedslisten is going to put up with being put out of control: When Enhedslisten has said that we have to put some new parliamentary tools in the toolbox, it is because really as a new government sitting on Enhedslisten's mandates you can get so far away from what should be a joint project that we have to say that then we have to ask the voters. When this is actually the case, it is necessary to assess the situation in each case. I think I have said at least a number of times from the platform, even today: the Hypothesis I will not stand here and relate to. These will be concrete assessments in concrete situations. But it is clear that it is also a message that all those who vote for a new majority should be heard, and this also applies to the area of foreigners. Does this mean that a new government is not allowed to make any agreements with anyone other than us? No. Does this mean that the 100-day plan of Enhedslisten will be implemented? No. I wish it was like that. But unfortunately that is not the reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130720	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130721	But when Enhedslisten does not want to put up any red lines, it is also free cards for the Social Democrats that they can make foreign policy with us as much as they want. I think that is very good, because it is necessary for Denmark to pursue a strict immigration policy. But I think it is a pity if you go to the polls and then pretend to the electorate that you will have an influence on foreign policy when that clearly does not happen. The case is that Enhedslisten is being sidetracked. Then you can stand and be discontented, you can complain, you can say all the obscene words you want about the Socialists, but there will be no influence on foreign policy. I just think that we should be honest with the voters instead of pretending that we are going to do a whole lot. If you do not want to acknowledge it, you have to say now that there are some red lines. Then you have to tell me what it is you don't want to put up with instead of just opening up to them doing what they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130807	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130808	This is certainly not a free card. Let me put it this way: the Enhedslisten expects a government that we support to be a government that wants to conduct politics with us and with the other parties that add votes to a majority, and we must be consulted in all areas, that is clear. This does not mean that we can decide everything or prevent them from making agreements with anyone other than us, unfortunately, I almost said, but that is the reality. And we are going to fight for a proper and humane immigration policy to be implemented constantly, no doubt about it. That's how it is. Can the social democracy and possible government partners also go so far in the field of foreigners that we say that they have to find a different majority or that they have to ask the electorate again? Yes, and so can they with regard to the environment and tax policy. There are many hypotheses, but I simply do not intend to relate to them until they hopefully come true.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130912	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130914	Thank you. I will try to beat another nail in the quite so mentioned pudding from before lunch with a question in the field of foreign policy. Others have been other ways around this question, so let me ask specifically: Has the Enhedslisten entered into an agreement with the Social Democratic Party that Enhedslisten will not have any influence on foreign policy under a government led by Mrs Mette Frederiksen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130951	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130953	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130955	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530130958	This is also why it becomes a little bit interesting what it is that Enhedslisten actually intended to use these mandates for, which one might potentially also risk having after the next parliamentary elections. Let me ask in another way: has the Enhedslisten got a view from the Social Democratic Party that the Social Democratic Party, now to mention two specific examples, will eliminate the benefits of integration and the ceiling on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131031	No, I'm afraid not. In other words, I am in favour of the Social Democrats voting against the cash aid ceiling together with the Enhedslisten, but we have called out on several occasions that we would like to have a promise that it will actually be removed, and we have also been very sorry that a proposal has been made to put some kind of benefit commission together instead of making sure that people are lifted out of poverty, because they really need help from God. Thousands of people, including children, have ended up in poverty without having a significant impact on getting people into work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131102	In here we try to get by without God's help in some way. In any case, we should not invoke the higher powers. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131115	Thank you very much, and thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper for one, I think, very good speech. However, I have to admit that there is something in Mrs Pernille Skipper's reply which I simply cannot get to fit in with the Mrs Pernille Skipper, whom I think I know and the Enhedslisten I know, because in relation to this, how to seek influence, how much one wants to seek influence, one should get into the situation that one was parliamentary basis for a new government, it seems almost as if it is an independent point for Mrs Pernille Skipper to stress that one really has no intention of demanding influence on anything. This is just not how I really know Enhedslisten, so my question is: Can it really be that the Enhedslisten here today, at Parliament's closing debate, makes a virtue out of, almost as was one on Valium, saying that they are not going to demand anything from Mrs Mette Frederiksen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131159	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131202	I am very sorry that Mrs Christina Egelund feels this way, because the point of having the talk we have taken in our party at all is precisely to say that there is some experience from the previous government that we will not repeat. I would also like to say at the same time in all silence that we are not living in a cave for ourselves. We also learn from the mistakes of others, and we have seen what you can get yourself into, for example. is a parliamentary basis and is called the Liberal Alliance, and of course we learn from that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131239	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131241	I am glad to hear that, after all, the Valium is being shelved and is going to seek influence. Let us leave the process behind, because the next and the interesting thing is, of course, the political substance and which areas the Enhedslisten will seek influence on and with what policy. So, where is it substantial that Enhedslisten would like a social democratic government to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131302	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131304	We expect, as I have also said a few times, that when you add votes to a new majority, everyone will be heard in the same way as the mandates you give. This means, of course, that the more parties like Enhedslisten vote in a new majority constellation, the more we can move in that direction. Essentially, it is primarily the climate. We want a very, very ambitious climate policy that actually manages to achieve the objectives that are, in order to keep the impact on Earth within the clear reach. Secondly, inequality is an extremely important issue for the Enhedslisten, putting the welfare and consideration of the many in the forefront. And yes, we must also have an influence on foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131356	Then it's mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131359	I understand that the Enhedslisten is sorry to talk about hypotheses. They are by their very nature very hypothetical. But then let's go to something concrete. This government has adopted 76 restrictions in the field of foreigners. Is there one of the tightenings that Enhedslisten will fight to preserve if you are to have the influence that you want to have?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131426	So you're gonna keep them? It's something else; I didn't just see it coming. I have to say that I really cannot answer that on a stand-by basis. It may well be that there is something in that list which is called austerity in the blue block and which, as it were, comes into a cake celebration that has some kind of positive effect on, for example. wage dumping. However, I must say straight away that there is nothing in the approach of celebrating to harass people on the run from war and terror, which I think is particularly positive. So no, there's nothing I can mention.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131511	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131513	Is it true that the Enhedslisten does not want to maintain any of the 76 restrictions imposed by the government in the field of foreign policy? Is that the right interpretation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131522	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131524	Well, I'm sorry, it's just a list you've made yourself. I don't know what those 76 tights are covering. I simply cannot answer that question. What is defined as tightening, whether there is one or two that we want to preserve, I do not know. I may have missed something, but I just haven't sat through that list of 76 tights. I'd love to do it. But my immediate reaction is that I cannot imagine it, but I cannot completely reject it either. I don't know what that list is. It's somebody else's list.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131555	Sir. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131559	Is there anything on that list following the debate with Mr. Mads Fuglede over tightenings that Mrs Pernille Skipper believes the Social Democracy will fight to get rid of? And, following that, I would like to hear how the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten feels about the fact that we have experienced Mrs Mette Frederiksen repeatedly today saying that it is certainly not on refugee and alien policy that the red parliamentary basis of the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and, above all, the Radical Left will have an influence. What are the feelings of the parliamentary basis from which Mrs Pernille Skipper comes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131654	It doesn't tickle so much in the stomach, no, it doesn't. Well, I just haven't seen that list. I may have missed something, that I should have seen it, that it has been distributed in the committees, that I have not done my homework. I have simply not seen that list, so I cannot relate to it. Secondly, with regard to our feelings, I would like to say: please note that the Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party disagree with the foreign policy, I hope nobody in here is falling down the chair; there is no such thing. We don't have much of a difference of opinion. In the Enhedslisten, we think it is quite far-fetched to start talking about sending people who have fled from the Islamic State, war and terror into camps and do not care about them. We think we should be allowed, once we have come here and sought protection, on the run from war, to have our children safe. Yes, we do. There we do not agree with the social democracy and we will fight with beaks and claws. The only thing I can say is that I hope there are a lot of people who vote for us and parties who agree with us so that we can have more influence on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131806	Sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131810	Thank you. Around the list I would say: Don't deal with a list that you may know or don't know, but relate to the fact that there isn't one of the tightenings that have been adopted since 2015 that you will fight to preserve, and that there is not one of the tightenings that Social Democracy will fight to end. Enjoy the parliamentary basis. I recognize that you're beating up your differences. We just want to get the drill out, who will form the parliamentary basis for a future government led by Mrs Mette Frederiksen. That is why I have a quiet question: does Pernille Skipper estimate that the Red Parties today are more in agreement here a small year before the elections than they were at the same time before Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt became Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131906	There were a lot of questions in that. I don't know. Well, listen, I'm not gonna make lists, I'm gonna leave that up to the rest of you. I do not make lists of how much I agree with the social democracy or how much I disagree with the social democracy. I can also reveal that we had some so-called beefs with Mr. Morten Østergaard, under the previous government and also with his predecessor, wasn't exactly love all the way through and that's how it's gonna stay. There are many points in which we disagree, and this is a crossroads. What we agree on is that we really want another Prime Minister because we want to be greener and hopefully also to be redr. And yes, in the Enhedslisten, we will also be fighting for us to become more orderly with people who come here on the run from war and terror, because we do not think that the present majority is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131954	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530131955	Thank you. However, many of the questions have, on the one hand, revolved around foreign policy and, on the other hand, about the parliamentary principles of the Enhedslisten. And I have also tried to look at these parliamentary principles. What I can see is that one uses the example of tax reform as being what one does not like to try to experience again. But the reason why many people here choose to take it up in relation to foreign policy is, of course, that the Social Democrats are trying so clearly to signal that they are going to run foreign policy bypassing the Enhedslisten. That is why I think it would be fair to consider whether we are going to live out of influence in an area which I believe the Enhedslisten has a relatively high profile, that is to say, immigration policy. Can you live with being put out of control in an area if you are to support a government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530132038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530132039	I am just saying again that the Enhedslisten expects all parties who vote for a new majority, hopefully, to be heard. We expect to be heard on the environment, climate and nature, we expect to be heard on welfare, we expect to be heard on health, on day care, on integration and on foreign policy. So we expect to be heard. And we also expect the other parties in the block to be heard. This is just like what is necessary for us to be able to work together. Can one imagine that a new government can get so far away from what should be at least a common direction, even if there is no agreement on everything, so we have to say that one has to find another parliamentary basis or we have to ask the electorate again? Yes, you can. This can also be done in relation to foreign policy. But that's hypotheses. And if it happens in the specific situation, you know what, I promise you won't be the first to know, but you'll find out. I'm sorry, I'm not allowed to speak directly. I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530132143	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530132144	Thank you. Well, that sounds really, really good. But it keeps getting wrapped up in these vague wordings, so that then you're going to do something. But it is not so concrete again what you want to do. I know that various things are being threatened, but it is no more concrete than that. And if you look back at what happened when the tax reform was actually adopted under Helle Thorning-Schmidt, you can see that there were also many threats of all things in the world, but nothing really happened. So why is it that we have to believe it more this time? Is it because it's called something else, or what's in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530132215	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530132215-2	I am simply afraid that I have begun to speak such a language. Because that is my point, that is to say that it is not concrete. Because we are not dealing with hypothetical situations that have not taken place. We take a position on the specific situations when they become reality. And then we'll put it very concretely, I promise. But Enhedslisten says in all silence that in a new majority all must be heard. And yes, as a government sitting on the seats of the Enhedslisten, you can get so far away that you have to find another parliamentary basis. In fact, it is not particularly spectacular. That's the way it is. It's a new tool we put in the toolbox. And then we expect to be heard. It is not concrete and we do not answer hypothetical questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530132305	Thank you. And then the time has passed for Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530132324	Thank you. I have a good colleague. You know him well; his name is Henrik Dahl. And he's smart. He once wrote a book called "If your neighbor was a car." Then you are inspired when you stand here and look out at the members of the Folketing, at the parties of the Folketing: What if you were a car? At least I can spot a party bus with disco ball and loud music, high ceilings and sometimes completely without a ceiling. I can also see an ore, a Danish-produced original. At least it was when it came on the street original. The ore was never a success, but the party did. Since then it has been copied in many versions. And then there is the good old agricultural friend, the tractor, who no longer really wants to be a tractor, unless, of course, you can be a green tractor. Now, it is no secret that we in the Liberal Alliance are happy that cars have become cheaper. All three times we have helped to reduce the registration fee, despite the fact that many thought we were crazy when we proposed it for the first time soon many years ago. In time, however, much, including political agendas, matures. For cheaper cars, citizens give more freedom when they have to have the everyday banal logistics to hang together. It tells me that political struggles are worth taking, that it is useful and that politics actually moves something; that attitudes, plans and good arguments are worth spending your life on. It is actually quite trivial to influence and develop society and our lovely country with more freedom, with more self-determination and with more of what we regard as value. I have also noted that several of our proposals in the Liberal Alliance are finding support elsewhere; that as a party we are helping to mature major social debates; that with our 13 mandates we are moving something. For example, when I get there... President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Henrik Sass Larsen suddenly talks about the legalization of cannabis, I'm happy. When I hear the same sir... Henrik Sass Larsen said that too many resources are being spent on unnecessary paperwork in the public sector, I am also pleased. Because then I actually hear an echo of what we in the Liberal Alliance have been saying for nearly a decade. When I open the Stock Exchange and read that the former Social Democratic Finance Minister Bjarne Corydon is pleading for a further reduction in vehicle taxes, it is just before you are touched that I will certainly be happy. 'Cause he's right, and he's right, and he's right. Henrik Sass Larsen was supposed to publicly plead for Liberal Alliance policy, I didn't actually expect to happen. All three examples are about common sense, and all three examples are agendas that we have set in LA and that others are now supporting. And thank you for that. I really want to dwell on the cannabis thing, because something new needs to be done here. Let us fight together with the policy of bans which clearly do not work and which have such devastating consequences. Because no matter how forbidden cannabis is, there is a large, lucratively illegal market that we have left to the most ruthless criminals in society today. As rulers, we must take responsibility for the fact that it is not the criminals who must be responsible for the trade that openly exists. Even at Christiania they seem to have had enough. We should do something here that's not just more of the same. Anyway, I will come back to what we have actually done. Step by step, this government and my party made sure that Denmark went in a more liberal direction. We are doing this in the debate, but we are also doing it with clear political results. And I am glad that we in the Liberal Alliance are part of a government where we can say that we are actually making a difference. We give the Danes greater freedom, we give them the right to their own lives, we give them the opportunity not just to be a production apparatus for the state of Denmark. We have agreed to reduce the tariff over Storebælt; we have given the socially disadvantaged a large hand to get a foot in the labour market with the social free pass; we have increased the subsidy to the free school so that the parents' own payment has been reduced; we have taken a break with the rigid goal management in the primary school; we have carried out an experimental scheme with medical cannabis; we have reduced excise duties on beer, soft drinks and wine; we have removed the nut tax; we have abolished the tax on free telephone and on the Internet; we have abolished the compensatory tax on pensions; and then we have reduced the tax on ordinary Danes. In fact, taxes have been relieved by approx. 15 billion kr. Thanks to labour market reforms and tax reforms, we have sound public finances. Employment is historically high, fewer are on public support and the private sector is growing faster than the public sector. It is important that we continue the reform agenda. Reforms are the best social policy when we succeed in moving people from a life of idleness to a life of work. Reforms create momentum, reforms move Denmark forward, and reforms work the end. I would like to warn against what we hear from some political quarters, that now is the need for reform there no longer; we can sit on the couch and watch the world; growth will come completely by itself; snap snap snout, then the reforms are out-of-date. Honestly, it is not true that we can just sit back and wait for example. the supply of work is rising completely by itself, because it does not. I actually miss Bjarne Corydon when I hear that stuff. You can imagine two cars, both of which are Denmark. One will drive in the garage, turn off the lights and pull down the gate, take a break and hibernate while the other cars continue outside. The other car is moving forward brightly, it insists on driving in the reform track and keeping up with and preferably overtaking the other cars. It can never be a viable road for a country to drive into the garage, and that is why it is important that we keep the track of reform together. In fact, the tax burden is falling. It is expected this year to approach the lowest level in 20 years, and it is also welfare. It is also welfare when citizens are allowed to keep more of their own money. The tax burden is still too high. A high tax hampers growth and limits freedom. That's the way it is. It's actually quite incredible how creative politicians in Denmark have been when it comes to taxing everything from A to Z. We could start from an end: A for inheritance tax, B for bottom tax, C for CO2 The alphabet is far as an evil list of stupid taxes that nicely end with Å for the tax that eels fishermen have to drop when they need to have a fishing sign, and Å for the • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • For oh, which car is the Liberal Alliance? I know that we will probably be shot in the shoes if prejudices are so free to run, that we are such a Porsche 911 Cabriolet, but we cannot afford that at all. It has been written by the Extra Magazine, and so it must be true. So the answer has to be that we're such a nice van. It is well on the road, and it can get up at high speed, but once it has come up at high speed, it is not very good at changing direction. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133221	Thank you. There are a large number of comments and questions. First, sir. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133227	Thank you for that, President. I may have fallen a little, but I have to say that it was one of today's speeches that contained at least the climate and the challenges that all other rapporteurs have spent all day talking about. It is certainly fitting for the Liberal Alliance that when it comes to the green transition, it can lie in a very, very small place, and everything that we could also hear was from the alphabet to much else • is about tax relief. So why not just say it? When others in the government claim that it is the most green government in Danish history that we have, it is certainly not a helping hand that comes from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133315	I'm sure sir. Morten Bødskov has discovered that the Liberal Alliance is part of a government that has presented the most ambitious energy plan in history and that we have announced that there will be a climate plan on the other side of the summer holiday. Morten Bødskov has discovered this policy and, of course, we are in favour of it. When I spoke of something else in my speech, it was not because I do not think that climate, green transition and a sensible energy policy are important. So it's kind of because I think the other one is important too. That's politics. It's not a either-or, it's a boat-and. When it comes to climate policy, we are fully aware that there are challenges. That is why I am actually glad that, in the proposal that the government has put forward, beyond the high level of ambition, there is also the point that, when we invest in renewable technology and renewable energy, we have to do so in a way in which we have not already identified which technology is the right technology, that is to say, a technology-neutral supply. For far too long we in the Folketing have imagined that we are the experts on technology. We are not, but it is we who are responsible for setting the framework for those who are experts to be able to deploy their technologies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133438	Is there any further comment? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133446	Thank you for that, President. I think we can all hear that the climate is hard to get beyond the ramp when you are the political rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. It is true that there are plenty of tax incentives in the energy plan presented by the government. The problem for the Liberal Alliance is, of course, that if you want to do something good for the climate, why are tax reductions being granted, which in the words of the chairman of the Climate Council itself are tax reductions, but are not beneficial to the climate? Isn't it just the crux of the matter that when it comes to the Liberal Alliance and the climate, this is a very, very difficult matter? It is about tax relief and even rapporteurs who are present in this Chamber today who have doubted that the majority of climate change is man-made at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133543	But I do not think this is difficult, and I do not doubt that climate change is man-made just to make it absolutely clear. Then it is true that in the proposal made by the government there are also electricity tax reductions. It's all about fairness, and it's also about buying the green power. When the Danes receive their electricity bill at home, they can see how many kilowatt hours they have spent and what it costs, and we are the country in Europe where the largest share of the price we pay per. kilowatt-time is made up of charges. Of course, that may seem reasonable. It hits socially wrong, because energy, electricity, is something we all use and the more expensive the price is, the more taxes we put on it, the harder it hits those who, at the end of the month, have the least money left for themselves to do well with. It is evidently the policy of the Social Democratic Party. I think we should take a fight with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133638	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133640	Thank you and thank Mrs Christina Egelund for her speech. I particularly liked the part that was about the legalisation of cannabis. It's a place where we in the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance agree. Another place where, in any case, we can say, used to agree, is on the question of the right to privacy and the right to personal information. With the new Personal Data Act, it has become possible for administrations to share information. And the government has decided in its so-called agreement on parallel societies that it must now be possible to share information about citizens without the approval of the citizens to share the information and use it for something other than what it was collected for. I would just like to ask Mrs Christina Egelund if the Liberal Alliance really believes that it may be right for the state to intervene in the privacy of its citizens in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133735	However, the questioner forgets a significant part of what the questioner mentions, namely that just before, almost two minutes before that law was to be adopted, we were led to believe that when registers are to be linked for purposes which are incompatible with what they were originally collected for, it is not something that a government or a minister can simply do at his discretion, it is actually something for which there must be a majority in the Folketing. In this way, there is democratic control over that process too, and that must be the case. It is clear, then, that when we are asked questions in the Committee on Legal Affairs or in other relevant specialist committees and in a minister asking for the right to collate registers, I think that the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslist will often see the same extent of how far one should go, how much one should allow in the opposing considerations which, on the one hand, there is the right to privacy, the protection of one's private data, and, on the other hand, the consideration of having an effective public sector as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133836	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133838	I would just like to go a little further and ask the Liberal Alliance how far they are willing to go, because the Liberal Alliance is, in fact, part of a government, part of an agreement that is about the need to be able to share data in order to protect or detect socially vulnerable children. What we have not yet been able to get an answer to in the Enhedslisten is what kind of families we are dealing with here, what kind of children we are dealing with here. Therefore, I would like to hear the Liberal Alliance: how far are you willing to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530133912	When it comes to the question of data security and what we can allow public authorities to use our data for what purposes we in the Liberal Alliance have the complete principle that, as we live our lives more and more digitally, the data tracks we each leave behind are our own. I would go so far as to say that they are covered by private property. That's ours. That's one side of it. Then there's the other side. For example, when collecting data, one can: It is also possible to go a long way in what Mrs Lund asks, namely to help socially disadvantaged families. Then it is a political assessment, which then seems to be a legitimate purpose. There, for example, I think it is a legitimate purpose to help vulnerable children. Because if the system we have today, with reports, that is to say manual reports, worked, we would not have as many children as grow up under the bad conditions as is unfortunately the case in Denmark. That is why I believe that action is needed with regard to these children.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134019	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134022	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund for her speech. There were also elements I was happy with, some more than others. One of the things I was happy about was when Mrs Christina Egelund said that we need more freedom, more self-determination. Approximately coincides with the fact that the Liberal Alliance had been in government for 1 year, namely at the end of 2017, Louise Holck, Deputy Director of the Institute of Human Rights, said this here, and I quote: "But I don't remember when I last experienced so many examples of fundamental freedoms being disregarded as what we have seen in the past year. Louise Holck then mentions a ban on residence, a ban on zones, a ban on camping, a ban on cover, and I could then add to the new bans: the ban on living where you want, if you are on special transfer income, and now also compulsory day nurseries for 1-year-olds in particularly vulnerable residential areas. How can the Liberal Alliance stand up to the goal of a government that so restricts our freedoms?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134121	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134122	As a Liberal, I do not wake up every morning with a keen desire to introduce a new ban or a new coercive measure somewhere. Now Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier listed a number of examples. In relation to the last example of this institutional situation, I would like us not to be in a situation where it was necessary to use such funds. Honestly, I would. But that is just what happens, because when it comes to integration and to ending the pockets of parallel societies that we have in Denmark, that is something we have talked a great deal about. We've been talking and talking and talking about it for decades now. In fact, we have talked so much about it that at some point the tone itself became a political issue. So, no, in the ideal world, I would rather live in a society where it was not necessary, but I just miss answers, including from the author's party, to what is then done. Because we can't just keep talking and talking and talking and sitting around and talking about how it's a shame for these kids, too, without showing the will to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134226	Here you go, Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134227	I can guarantee that we have made a great many proposals on what we could do instead of, among other things. The Social Democratic Party's good proposal for compulsory write-up, but not compulsory registration, that is, that all Danish children and not only those in particularly vulnerable areas should be written up for crèche when they are born. Because we haven't tried everything else. It is 500 children a year we are talking about, 500 families a year we are talking about. We have not tried to sit around the table in a negotiating room and agree to say that we should then go out to the 500 families with a really targeted outreach effort and say: Here's an offer for you. We would very strongly recommend that you take it because it is good for your children. I'd much rather go along with that. So my point is, we haven't tried everything else before. We have resorted immediately to coercion and bans, and that is what I am contesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134316	But it's not true that you haven't tried anything else first. Honestly, if I could number the number of different integration projects that have been tried, both by the state, but also by the municipalities, then I wish we were in a different situation where it was not necessary to use the instruments that we know are going to work? Yeah, I wish, but that's just not where we are. Sometimes you just have to take stock of the reality in which we live. Then I just want to go back to what was the author's original point about being liberal. I note that in the last few days on Twitter, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier has claimed that she represents a liberal party. I would just like to say that it is not compatible with liberalism to abolish private property rights and introduce compulsory meat-free days in the public sector, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134406	Yes, please! We're gonna try to keep to the speaking time. Now I'm gonna sound like Jacob Haugaard. But we must try to keep to the speaking time, because otherwise it will be a very, very long day. I guess it does anyway, but let's try. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134420	I do not quite know how to interpret the answer to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, because it was so little that in the Liberal Alliance one is liberal until one thinks that enough has been spoken and then the values are no longer so important or how should that be understood? In other words, when it comes to testing in reality, the values are not so important that it does anything. Well, then you could just introduce a little compulsion and a little ban here and there. One of the issues that I think is obvious in that area, but which has been left out, is that of getting us to meet across. We managed to get a partial agreement on the day institutions, but what about the schools, and what about the high schools, which were even part of the government's proposal? In other words, what makes the Minister of Education, who is from the Liberal Alliance, constantly encounters a resistance or a hesitation to the obvious, namely that instead of treating people differently, depending on where they live, so get people to meet across, so that we do not experience that those who do not have Danish as their mother tongue go to the same schools and the same high schools, but that we meet, gain confidence in each other, learn from each other's standards, language and culture. It is therefore a good liberal view that we meet as equal people and are treated equally, rather than basing it on what our address is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134536	Sometimes words are just so grateful. Well, that sounds great, because it's great that you have to meet across and cross with the differences that you have and sit down and something like that. It is absolutely impossible to disagree with. If you dive into what's behind it, sir. Morten Østergaard says that it is all about abolishing the free choice of secondary school, that is to say, ending the right of high school students to decide for themselves where they want to go to high school. Then it's about distribution by ethnicity. Well, try to taste it: distribution by ethnicity. Honestly, it's not the kind of society I want to live in. That is why we need to have an approach where we go to those colleges where there are specific problems, because there are high schools where there are problems, instead of making a general fight with free secondary school elections. Let us then solve the problems where they are, instead of taking across the board the right of all Danish high school students to decide for themselves where they go to school.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134631	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134633	Yes, it must run cold down your back when you think about what kind of policy the government has been carrying out. After all, the Minister for Housing of the Liberal Alliance has reached a settlement where certain areas are declared ghettos, based solely on one of the many criteria: the criterion of whether the majority of neighbours have a non-western background, that is, their origin. Then special rules have been drawn up which only apply to those areas where the criterion applies, that is to say exactly what the rapporteur says here and says that one could not dream of. Then they have been told not to decide where to live. Their free choice to decide for themselves where to live has been restricted. But as far as high school students are concerned, I just want to say that this is an illusion. High school students are not free to choose high school, they cannot decide for themselves what kind of high school they can get into. They can search, but they are not guaranteed space to be distributed anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134727	But the two things, as Mr. Morten Østergaard is trying to equate it, because the point is precisely that when we go in and define what kind of housing areas we set in with the ghetto plan, it is precisely for action where the problem is. What Morten Østergaard is advocating is a general dispute with free secondary school elections throughout Denmark. I feel that this is the way it is, and one can then take a different view that I think we should solve the problems that exist, rather than restricting freedom for all Danes and throughout the country. And somehow it's a little weird that sir... Morten Østergaard, if we're going back to the same position, thinks it's quite awful that we go in and look at the housing composition in those residential areas where we want to solve some problems, but that it's quite nice to make student distribution on the basis of ethnicity. I simply never thought that the Radical Left would come out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134810	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134813	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Then you could say that if the government was a car, perhaps it was a Volkswagen that looks something greener at first glance than it is when it is tested through. But that was not actually the lead I wanted to pursue, but it is the sort of clue my colleagues have also mentioned, that is, the role of the Liberal Alliance in the government and that the government should have become more liberal after the Liberal Alliance had entered. So we still have a discussion about some of the things that my colleagues have also asked about. We have a government that says quite clearly: we want to share citizens' data and information across the board. We have a Justice Minister who, after 11⁄2 years, is still illegally watching the citizens in spite of an EU judgment that came in December 2016 and that said it is illegal and contrary to fundamental freedoms. We have more people who are administratively detained than we had during the 2009 climate summit. So there are a number of areas where we used to agree until the Liberal Alliance came into government that there are some fundamental freedoms that are being trampled underfoot. Will the rapporteur not say a little about this and tell us what the plan is for getting it right?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134937	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530134939	Thank you. In other words, the questioner is now addressing a great many complex issues, and it is true that in some of these areas, the Liberal Alliance, when it comes to legal certainty, when it comes to data protection and the right to privacy and all of this, is in complete agreement with the SF. But I just want to say that when you share the views that we do in these areas, it is when it comes to logging, it is when it comes to the Public Service Act, and it is when it comes to the fundamental law of law. It is better to have the Liberal Alliance sitting within a government where we can actually exert influence than it is to have them sitting outside and just talking about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135014	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135016	Well, is that it? Well, is it materially different that the Liberal Alliance is in government? The government made an agreement with the Social Democrats, it was very good that the Danish Parliament should be asked before you merge, but the intention of the data protection law is still gone, that it wants to do so. And we still have illegal mass surveillance of the citizens of this country, one and a half years after the verdict has fallen. And I do not believe that the rapporteur's project to sit in government, the great liberal freedom project, is that the registration fee should be slightly lower. Well, it's certainly a pretty poor freedom project in my optics.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135100	But then let me give you a very specific example. Exactly in the area to which the rapporteur refers, it has made a difference that we have sat in government, since it was up to national interpretation whether or not a breach of the data protection law would penalise public authorities. It has been my concern and that of the Liberal Alliance for years that we should of course be able to do so, because it is extremely offensive to the individual citizen, when it is public authorities that have some of the most private and therefore potentially most offensive information about us. It is, of course, up to national interpretation, and it was a view that we carried into the government and that was written into the law and that I think Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is actually glad that we did. And I would venture to claim that if we had not been in government, it would not have happened that people can now come after public authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135148	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135150	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur finds it difficult to balance the situation by explaining that one is liberal as in the Liberal Alliance, because things are happening where one has to think: stop it, what is going on here? For example: The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior of the Liberal Alliance believes that it is absolutely all right for the state to be a money machine that can just pull millions out of the municipalities because of parking fees. It hits, among other things. Frederiksberg Municipality, which is to deliver 130 million. kr. to the Minister for the Interior and the Economy, as we can understand, and there we have to say that we are very liberal, because we understand that one of the MPs of the Liberal Alliance, who is then also the councilman in the municipality of Frederiksberg, says: What on earth is the intention of the state going in and taking parking fees to be used for parking in the municipality of Frederiksberg. It also affects a number of other municipalities. So what does the Liberals have to do, that is to say, with the Minister now having to cash in for the municipalities on parking fees? Is that what it means to be liberal in the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135249	Somewhere it is quite awesome to stand here, while all sorts of parties have ambitions for the liberal to fill more. To get more of that, you have to vote for it if you really mean it and it's not just teasing. To put it bluntly, what the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior is saying is that what is going on in the municipalities is making money, in other words making money from the fact that citizens park their cars on the parking areas of the municipality. It is the case that if you are a citizen of this country and you have a car there are some who need it, especially if you live outside the reach of the Metro you actually hand in quite a lot of money to the Treasury in advance, because we have very high taxes on petrol and diesel, and we still have high registration fees. They've got a sneak down, but they're still way too high. So as a driver in Denmark, you are already being taxed on fire, and then it is just that we say it is not fair that the municipality, because you have to park, should make money from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135346	Mrs. Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135348	It is of course very interesting to hear that the rapporteur confirms that it is all right for the state to become a cash machine which cashes in from the municipalities. Now the two of us had an opportunity to discuss it with a different vote, and the Liberal Alliance pays tribute to the fact that there should be no party discipline, because the voters like it when you really vote city heart, that is with the heart, and here in fact there is a member of parliament and a Councilman from the Liberal Alliance who has said that what makes no sense, because that means that planned investment for the benefit of traffic and the drivers in Frederiksberg cannot be done. So I just want to ask whether this view of freedom, this liberal vision that the Liberal Alliance has here, which means that Mrs Laura Lindahl can vote differently, applies? That means, by the way, that the rest of us will get that gift, and then the majority will be gone for the about half a billion dollars that you get cashed in through this so-called state new money machine that the Liberal Alliance is going to introduce.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135442	However, there is no contradiction between what the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior says and what I say and what Mrs Lindahl says. We fully agree that the municipalities should not be money machines at the expense of drivers. Period.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135457	Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135501	Thank you. I would like to return to the green ambitions, which there are not many of Christina Egelund and the Liberal Alliance. And this is also seen in the energy issue, where it can be said that most of the money is spent on tax reliefs, and then there is a little left to the green. One of the areas where, according to industry, there is not enough is energy saving. And this means that from a number of Danish companies, Grundfos, Danfoss, Rockwool, Velux, but also wider than that in Danish industry, there has been criticism of the government's proposal. And the director of Danfoss, Kim Fausing, actually said that if the low level of ambition is translated into the final agreement, Denmark will lose its international green strength position. Does this impress the Liberal Alliance with such criticism from the business community?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135550	If you have green ambitions, it is actually a pleasure to attend the debate today, because it is almost a competition to insist on: I am most green, they are most green, there are a lot of us wearing green blouses and dresses, I have put on green shoes myself. It's like green sneaks into every party. And that is a very good thing, and it is only on that basis that one has to say that there is broad agreement in Parliament to have high ambitions in this area. Then I understand that since last night the Social Democratic Party is problematizing the funding of the plan put forward by the government and that it is a terrible thing that the Danes should be allowed to avoid a little cheaper from their electricity. And it's just such a political disagreement. I do not think it is fair that the Danes should be penalised with Europe's highest electricity tariffs. This is such a political disagreement, and we must take it into the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135641	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135643	Perhaps the rapporteur should answer the question instead: Does it impress the Liberal Alliance when business leaders in Denmark say that the government's proposals do not retain our position of strength?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135658	But in Denmark we retain our position of strength. I simply do not agree with that assertion. We have set a target for the share of renewable energy, which is the highest in Europe, above what we are committed to in our European Community. And I fully agree that we need to be ambitious in this area. So I simply do not agree with the claim and therefore, of course, it does not make an impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135718	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135721	This is a lot about Denmark and Denmark, and it is also fine; there are problems enough to talk about. But the other day more than 60 peaceful demonstrators were killed and 200 wounded. If it had been in Roskilde or in Kruså, there would have been a political martial law, and perhaps the Minister of Justice and Defence would have been fired. But here it was in Gaza, and those who were killed were Palestinians. Does not such a serious violation of democracy and human rights call for a sharp reaction from the Danish Government? Is silence in such a situation the right answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135758	But I don't see that we've been silent about it. I believe that everyone has distanced themselves from what has been going on and, as I understand it, it has also been suggested that it be examined what actually happened, that is to say to what extent Israel was involved and what role Hamas played in that. Because, of course, it is not okay for demonstrators to be killed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135824	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135826	The Danish Foreign Minister has not condemned what has happened. He regretted that the situation had escalated, but did not want to take a position. He rejected our proposal that we would have an independent investigation; Israel had to investigate itself if anyone had to be examined. Is that a correct answer in such a serious situation where human rights and democracy are being grossly violated?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135851	I do not know what the real difference of opinion is. The Foreign Minister has said that this development is regrettable. He called for a study to be made of what has been going on and who is putting forward as which party to what has been going on and, as long as we do not know, I find it difficult to see that we should then conclude on that. I think that what we are
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135920	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530135922	My question is somewhat linked to the debate that was before with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, where a number of Conservative and Left Members asked the same question, almost rhetorically, four times in a row, all of which were about how to act as a support party in relation to a given government, in this case with the Enhedslisten in relation to a perhaps future social democratic government. And now the Liberal Alliance has been working on the issue of how to tackle a government that you are more or less in agreement with. So my question is actually: does Mrs Christina Egelund have good advice for Mrs Pernille Skipper so that she is better dressed for the situation she might find after a given election?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140011	Thank you, and so we move on to such a thing as political pedagogy, and that is wonderful. Yes, we have made our procedural mistakes since the last elections, and I think we have also said this very openly by the Liberal Alliance, and this can serve as an inspiration to many who may find themselves in similar situations. I believe that the advice I will give to other parties who may be either as a support party to a government or in a government is that what is really at stake is to stand firm and fight for them and, of course, recognise at some point that there are others who have different opinions and, of course, be willing to compromise. Because that's what responsibility is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140051	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140052	The reason I ask is, of course, that there were at least several of us who thought that the Liberal Alliance was able to lift the law of political gravity when you were a support party, that is, before you entered the government yourself, namely by both supporting and at the same time being deeply critical. What is really my fundamental question is: do we currently see a break in the way the blocs act and the way the parties act in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140121	Well, I think the questioner is right to see that. For my part, I would like to say that I am, for example, in favour of the Commission's proposal. It has refused to accept the premise that as a government party one suddenly becomes such an ideologically amputated strange size which does not mean anything. I do not think that should be done as a party of government, but then other temperaments, and that must be the case. But the fact that, for example, I... in my rapporteur's speech today stressed the need for a new approach to drug policy, in relation to the legalisation of cannabis, I think that is a good expression of a new way of being the governing party, where on the one hand you take responsibility and compromise, but on the other hand you also raise some debates.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140202	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140204	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur for a good speech. One of the things I have noticed lately, and as we have noted in the Danish People's Party, is that it seems that there are slightly changed tones in at least some parts of the debate in relation to the EU issue. And I'd like to hear what the Liberal Alliance says about that. Where do we stand with the Liberal Alliance's position on the EU issue? Some people are in favour of more EU • I have understood that the Liberal Alliance has not been very strong in favour of this; perhaps in some respects the party has been in favour of less EU. But it might be interesting to hear where the Liberal Alliance as a governing party actually stands. What can we expect from the government, where you are also sitting in the office of Foreign Minister, as it is at present, in relation to the EU issue, which concerns many Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140302	Thank you for the question. And I really do think so, because I think it is important that we discuss European policy. I do not think you can make it as simple as saying that it is either more or less, and then you are on such a positive-critical scale as a party. In other words, we are a liberal party, and that means that we welcome the liberal policy that can be achieved in Europe. In other words, when Europe moves in a liberal direction, we clap our hands and are really happy and think it is really fine. When we in the European Union become overly regulatory, we are sceptical and do not think this is a good idea. In this way, it is no different from what is happening here in Parliament. With regard to the wider spectrum, it is clear that, in relation to the European Union, we will also take stock of what the world looks like. And I believe that in the time in which we live there is a need for European cohesion when there are strong forces in foreign policy that want to move in a different direction. When the United States questions free trade, when Britain comes out of the European Union, when Putin and Russia challenge European unity and, of course, try to challenge fundamental principles of the rule of law, then we in Europe need to look into each other and agree that there are indeed European values, for example. free trade, the rule of law and human rights, which are worth standing together about. In this way, of course, European policy is also dynamic. But we are not and we will never be a party that just claps its hands and thinks everything is fantastic because it comes from Brussels.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140430	Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140431	It was an attempt to answer, but I thought it was a little fluid. Can we come a little closer to an answer as to what the new line of government has meant in today's debate in relation to the views of the Liberal Alliance when it comes to the European Union? In other words, it was the case that the Liberal Alliance recommended a "no' vote in the referendum on the reservation of 3 December 2015. It was thought that we should not have any more EU and now we are in a situation where the government, of which the Liberal Alliance is a part, is actually working for more EU. Is that right, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140513	So let me be quite specific about some of the things we have often debated. The Liberal Alliance is still away against the euro, the Liberal Alliance is still away against the banking union, the Liberal Alliance is still away against the lifting of the legal reservation • at least in the form presented to us in the 2015 referendum. The Liberal Alliance still believes that defence cooperation in Europe must be strengthened. And then, of course, we have the line we have actually taken all the time, namely that we are in favour of European cooperation. But we do not think we should cooperate just for the sake of cooperation; we should work together where it makes sense. There are some specific and serious issues that we need to resolve together. I think we can agree that for example. Managing migration flows to Europe is a serious agenda in which we would also like to see a more effective European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140604	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140608	Thank you for that, and also thank you to the rapporteur for the speech and for the curious introduction of cheap cars, so cheaper cars made me aware of at least not or even better, but only cheaper. Older care is also becoming cheaper and cheaper, as more and more elderly people have to share the same resources in fact so few that there are not enough permanent staff to take care of the vital tasks. Does the Liberal Alliance believe that care for the elderly has improved since the Liberal Alliance entered government, or has it just become cheaper?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140645	In the sense that one can turn it into a matter of crowns and ears, one must say that it goes the right way in relation to what was left us by the then government. There is no welfare area that has been given more priority by this government than the older area last with the Finance Act for this year when it was prioritised by 2.7 billion. kr. Then we have an elderly minister who regularly solves the specific problems that are - specifically now in terms of how to get more sosu assistants, so there are also the warm hands that we are all talking about are so incredibly important. She, along with the Minister of Education, has taken the lead in resolving this problem. And then, on the slightly broader and more valuable agenda, there is the question of dare to put a value debate when we talk about the elderly area. We have an elderly minister who - at least of the people I know - has the longest experience in this area and knows what she is talking about. She put dementia on the agenda. She has dared to put something as taboo as our last time in the world, that is, how we get a dignified death, on the agenda. So it is both: it is both the battles of value policy, and then it is solving the specific problems along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140756	Here you go, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140758	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge that the Minister for the Elderly is sending some very good signals in relation to the care of the elderly, but it is quite a urian post if it is the case that money does not actually go hand in hand with a restricted area of elderly people. The Elders Case estimates that it has become much harder to get help. The employees consider that it has become more difficult to get time to do the job properly, and explain how timetables in home care are actually double-booked to get the ends to meet at all. And the Minister for Finance, not least, also considers that twice as much money should be spent as has been set aside if the status quo is to be guaranteed alone. How on earth will the Minister for the Elderly be given the opportunity to live up to any of the promises if it is the case that the Liberal Alliance does not also give priority to the field of action?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140844	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140845	However, it is not true that signals are just being sent and promises made, because a number of boom-concerned areas have been dealt with. As I said before, the area of elderly people is in fact the area of welfare which we have given the highest priority in this government in terms of money. I would just like to mention some other very concrete results: the extension of freedom of choice in the area of the elderly. There's a nursing home chart. A pool of 60 million has been set aside. kr. in relation to better support for relatives. We have more focus on a dignified end to life. It is also supported by 60 million. kr. A Knowledge Centre for dignified care for the elderly is hereby established. We have a mapping of the recruitment challenges that we face. We are in favour of increased staffing in the area of the elderly. 500 million has been set aside. kr. So there are, after all, a large number of completely concrete initiatives that have been decided and are being implemented by the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140933	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530140936	First of all, I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance and Mrs Christina Egelund for a fine and well-kept speech. I listened in particular when the rapporteur began by commending his very wise fellow party member, Mr. Henrik Dahl, and that was then in relation to the book "If your neighbor was a car that the rapporteur referred to. I thought for a moment that it was sir. Henrik Dahl's statements from the daily Børsen yesterday stated that he is prepared to drop government plans to change, or actually cut quite sharply, State Education Support. His reasons are, of course, that he thinks it is too unpopular to take up an election campaign. One could have hoped that he was against it because it would be crooked and antisocial and all sorts of things, but it is simply because he is afraid to lose the choice on it. But is it now the policy of the Liberal Alliance that we do not want to see a drastic cut in State aid for education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141036	Thank you, and especially thank you for the rose, of course. But the Liberal Alliance has never gone to the polls to cut the SU. So the fact that we should have dropped some SU plans is simply not right. We've never gone to the polls to cut the SU. We have sometimes raised the issue of whether it is wise that, within the amount that we now spend in Denmark on education, such a proportional proportion of the amount of support is spent versus the share that could then be released to invest in the training itself. I think that's a discussion worth taking, but the Liberal Alliance has never gone to the polls to cut the SU.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141122	But the Liberal Alliance has joined a government, among other things. with the Left Party, which has the Finance Minister's post, and which was yesterday also out saying that the plan is being maintained. Well, what the country's thousands of young students can look forward to is that if it's up to the Minister of Finance, sir. Kristian Jensen, then he will go out and cut very violently into state education support, so it will be much harder for students to make things stick together. Is the Liberal Alliance heading up into a new tree in this case? I mean, because there's an election campaign, you go out and you say, "Oh, we're not that much for it anyway?" What can the students count on? If the SU is cut down, as the Minister of Finance says, or the SU will not be cut down, as Mr. Henrik Dahl was on the Stock Exchange yesterday?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141211	The Liberal Alliance has not gone to the polls to cut the SU. I don't know where the questioner gets it. We're not. We have never made any concrete proposals to cut the SU. What I think we should be discussing is what I mentioned before, that is to say, what part of what we spend on education we need to spend on support. There I think there is something to come for, and I think we should have an open and open debate on that. Is it really sensible to spend more than half of the education budget on support? I think that deserves a debate. I also think it is completely crazy that we have a system where it is so that if, while you are studying, you have a job and make money next door, then you must be punished, i.e. set off with your SU, because you are industrious or are so lucky to have got a student-relevant job. That is totally wrong, so we in the Liberal Alliance believe that that ceiling should be removed. But I think that where the questioner is going is the question of whether the government is going to put forward plans to cut the SU. And there is certainly not my impression that the government has any concrete plans for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141313	Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141315	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. It was clear that the rapporteur was very concerned about all the monstrous taxes that exist, and I have found that the latest item on the agenda is an interest in reducing the inheritance tax after a trip around the family-owned companies and reducing the tax there from 15 to 5%. This happens despite the fact that the wise men had announced that it would impede production, because it is distorting the taxation of companies, as has subsequently been confirmed by the Ministry of Finance, which says that it is simply unwise. Well, now LA wants to mess with the inheritance tax again. And at least the citizens must have the expectation that the Liberal Alliance will then dedicate the citizens to what it is like to finance the relief of the inheritance tax for the most prosperous in this society. Could the rapporteur not reveal this? Where is it you want to get the money? Is that the care of the elderly? Or is it the daily allowance or the SU that has to finance one more round for the most wealthy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141440	I would like to challenge when the questioner says that we will lower the inheritance tax for the most wealthy. It is simply a strange myth that has been flourishing in the debate for some time. It's based on the myth that only the wealthy people die in this country. It is simply not right that we all die, no matter how wealthy we are. It is not true that only wealthy people are affected by the tax. That's what ordinary people do. The first $289,000 you leave behind for your children or whoever it is, there is a tax exemption for them, but in addition you are affected by an inheritance tax. To me, this is simply a question of fairness. Is it fair that because you die and leave your children a small fortune, you have to be skinned in treasure? That is such a reasonable view. I miss an answer from the Social Democratic Party as to whether they think it is fair that because a completely ordinary family leaves behind a house which is perhaps 800,000 to 900,000 kroner. Worth it, their kids are gonna be skinned in treasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141538	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141539	Well, the truth is, I would say to Mrs Christina Egelund, that in more than half of the estates there are, there is nothing to tax. It is true, then, that a progressive system has been put in place as regards inheritance tax. Is it a completely unreasonable principle in a society where quite great values are handed over from generation to generation, without the generation that takes over it having in itself touched a finger and with the extra curly that it is even unreasonable in relation to production? Is that a principle of solidarity? And where is it you want to get the money to fund it if you really think this is wise?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141624	So, as to whether this is a principle of solidarity, I would say that I think the opposite is the expression of such a political greed, which is that every time one can see one's cut to take money from people who have worn and dragged and actually did what we have asked them to do, namely save money, pay off their house, have a healthy private economy, have a slumped and saved, maintained their house and made sure that it had a reasonable value, then do so. Then when they die, tax dad comes, we come running and collect some of that money. And that actually makes inheritance difficult. I don't really care about them, as Mr. Orla has a lot of talk, that is to say, the most wealthy, because they can manage this treasure. Where it hits really hard are those families where there may be a house or a summer house that should move on to the next generation, and where this tax sometimes makes it really difficult for the survivors to take over the inheritance. For me, it is a matter of fundamental fairness.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141716	Thank you. Unfortunately, there is no time for further questions to the rapporteur. Next is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Once again, I would ask you to keep to your speaking time. If you do, there is room for more people who would like to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530141739	Thank you. There are probably more people who expect me to use all my speaking time to criticize the government and government policy, and that certainly cannot be thought of either, because it is true to say a lot that one could rightly choose to criticise. That is why it was also at first such a speech that I intended to make here today, in which I criticised the government for pursuing a policy that increases inequality, which takes away from those who already have the least, and gives to those who already have the most; perhaps with reference to the proposal to reduce inheritance tax or with reference to the time when poverty reforms were introduced. Of course, I was also going to spend a great deal of time on the lack of effort on climate and environment and nature, and perhaps I would mention some of the consequences of the use of pesticides and would like to have a little hidden national romantics, so that we were sure that the right was listening too. It could be something to say that the song from the Danish larks and vibes is so small is the silence that buzzing bees in the flower beds have disappeared so small, or that the highly sunny Danish groundwater is gradually filled with spray poisons in several places. It would actually be something near a perfect speech; perhaps there would even have been room for some praise for the government and the Social Democratic Party for the new tones about offshore wind farms, even if I would of course have to stress that much greater ambition is needed if we are to really save the planet and the climate. However, with a clear point that big things can come out of small steps as long as they go in the right direction. I was going to say all that today, but when I sat with that speech, I found out how little I really wanted to hold it. Because even if the criticism is correct, it will still be the same speech that we have made over the last few years in the Alternative. And I wonder if the result would be that, when I had given my speech and criticised the government, I would have the same questions as we usually have. Some would probably ask who the alternative would point to as the next prime minister. Others may have asked me how much the Alternative thinks a couple on cash benefits with two children should earn a month and where is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, when you talk about him! The answers would probably be as predictable as the questions, and no one would probably have been much wiser when we were done, because we have been there before. It made me think about how I can make a speech, which is a different speech, which can invite for a different conversation, a more curious one of the kind and one where we might all get just a little smarter on each other. That is why I have decided to talk about something that I know is of great concern to all of us: freedom for the individual, freedom for the community, freedom for our future generations, but also freedom for the lives and animals and plants with which we share our planet. Unfortunately, the dominant understanding of freedom in our time is freedom of consumption, that is, freedom is about the right to consume, about the right to own, the right to possess. You're what you buy, you're almost tempted to say. And thus economic growth and consumption become such a prerequisite for freedom. The problem with this view is that it is assumed that we are all born equal and equal opportunities. It is a beautiful thought, but it is far from reality. Far from everyone experiences that they are free to pursue their dreams and live the life they want. Many feel unfree, locked up where they live, where they work, where they go to school, by testing and characterization in schools, by leanboards and efficiency requirements at work, by rigid demands on progress in training, by hopeless resource requirements in job centres. Many experience that they run faster and faster in a hamster wheel, but without getting anywhere. The systems and structures that we have built are thus helping to limit our freedom. The same is true of the unequal distribution of wealth. In Denmark 10 per cent owns. of the richest people about half of our values. And it shows very well how different conditions we have from birth already. The question is whether we can be satisfied with that. Can we really be satisfied that we are only free as long as we have the money to consume and as long as we each play our little role in the great hamster wheel? Not if you ask me. And that's why I actually want to discuss what freedom is, but in a broader perspective. For Denmark needs a new tale of freedom. Of course, we must all have put our basic needs into the economy is not unimportant. Freedom is so much more than that. For what about the freedom and the right to live a dignified life, a meaningful life, to participate in democratic and meaningful communities, to be with the family, to the authentic presence? How do we guarantee that freedom? The freedom that we can see, of course, that the pursuit of growth and increased productivity and performance are actually holding back. This requires a showdown of growth, of habit thinking and of the systems we have created over time and to which we have chained ourselves. In fact, I think that we can only really feel free on the day when we dare break these chains, because that is the only way to make room for one to be a whole person in the real sense of the word. And it is also about freedom, at least for me, about living in balance with body and mind, both in working life and in family life, about not feeling lonely, about feeling that life is rich in meaning, and about entering into systems and relationships that do not deprive us of our dignity, but help us to make sense with ourselves, with the community. Freedom is about everyone having the right to the most extensive degree of freedom compatible with others having the same freedom. The latter is particularly important to me, i.e. the point that freedom is also about the balance between individual and community. Because if we are to ensure that balance, we must ensure strong communities, strong communities, which offer every opportunity to influence their own world, both in society, at work and at school, but also strong communities that guarantee individual freedom based on universal freedoms. And here it is true for virtue something to work with. It has now become the case in Denmark that people on certain transfer income are no longer allowed to decide for themselves where they want to live. We must no longer decide how to dress ourselves. Homeless people can no longer beg on the streets, and people living in certain places must now be punished more severely than others, and, like the top of the wreath cake, their children must even be forced into the crèche. That development is extremely worrying, because every time the many criminals against them are freed, we are criminals against everyone's freedom. Because is it not precisely the universality of freedoms that they apply to everyone who makes them so beautiful? Another problem with linking freedom so closely to the economy and consumption is that consideration for future generations is easily forgotten and, moreover, there are quite natural limits to growth and consumption. The climate crisis reminds us daily that there are clear limits to how much we can push our planet, and thus also to how much we humans can practice our own freedom without harming nature and the basis of life on the planet. The latter is actually a huge problem, because what about nature's freedom? Why aren't we better at securing it? We humans are connected to nature, we live off it, we live with it every day. Therefore, we cannot harm nature without also harming ourselves. I feel, for example. no longer free in a world where there are no bees in the flower bed out in my colonial garden, or where there are no more singing larks outside my bedroom window, or where my children can no longer come running from the garden into the kitchen and stick their heads under the faucet and drink clean and fresh Danish groundwater. But that is where we are going; that is where we risk ending if we continue as we are now. The positive story is that we may be at a turning point. After all, several parties have started playing out with concrete visions for the green transition. At the Nature Summit last week, for example, the entire opposition stood. together on an action against plastic. This is good for the future, because it shows that the world has It is there now, and the new notes actually make me wonder whether the Folketing is finally ready to take the necessary steps to ensure life on earth. In fact, in the alternative, we believe that in the future of Denmark we should make it clear once and for all that the needs of nature are more important than the desire for growth, for example. by deciding to leave the oil in the ground. Or how about we give nature its own legal rights? In fact, it has been done elsewhere in the world. The Ganges River in India has acquired its own rights, Ecuador recognises the rights of nature in its constitution, and Pennsylvania in the United States has done something similar in several cities, among others. has prevented fracking. The question is whether we are prepared to use the same means in Denmark, both for the sake of nature, but also for the sake of our children and grandchildren, those who, like us, would like to enjoy playing in the open nature and have clean water in the tap and fresh air in the playground. I do not know if we are there yet, but I hope so, because I believe in fact that our own freedom is entirely dependent on ensuring the freedom of nature. On behalf of the Radical Left and the Alternative, I have to read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government has failed to create real solutions to the challenges of reality, both when it comes to integration, climate and education throughout Denmark. Instead, the government has taken new steps away from the most basic principles of equal rights and equal value with the so-called "retirement ban," special rules in selected areas that do not apply in the rest of Denmark, stop tests in kindergarten class and ban on living where you want if you are on cash benefits. The Danish Parliament calls on the government to create mixed schools and youth education and to strengthen efforts to get more people into jobs, reduce CO2 by 2030 through more offshore wind farms, more energy research, more electric cars and ambitious energy efficiency improvement, convert state forest into untouched forest, combat plastic pollution and pollution in drinking water, and create coherent natural areas that stop the loss of biodiversity, combat poverty and discrimination in public services and invest in education. • V 72).
ParlaMint-DK_20180530142830	Thank you. The proposal is part of the further negotiations. Then there are a large number of comments and questions. First, it is Mrs Britt Baker, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530142840	Thank you for a very good speech. We had the opportunity earlier today to debate freedom, and I also noticed that the rapporteur put a question to the chairman of the Social Democratic Party about the introduction of vegetarian food. What strikes me that way is whether or not the Danes themselves should be allowed to decide whether or not to eat meat, but that the alternative is not willing to legislate when it comes to children's right to be in a day offer, children's right to learn Danish and children's right to be integrated into Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530142940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530142942	Children's right to take part in daily offers does not fail to this day. All children have the same right: the right to be admitted in a day-offer if they want to. As parents, you also have the freedom to choose from it. In fact, you have the freedom to do so, among other things. to teach your child at home, and you also have the freedom to wait to send your child on a daily basis if you consider that it is the best thing until the child is older. So it is not true that children do not have the right to make daily offers. In relation to the first question: No, the alternative will not determine what the Danes should eat, and it is also a strawman to put it that way. But we are out to say that we have a political responsibility to ensure that, among other things. meat production is being reduced, because we know that meat production is something that contributes a great deal to climate change. So if we, as decent and responsible politicians, did not take hold there, we would not be aware of our responsibility. So we have to intervene where we can, and that is why we propose introducing green days into public institutions. This does not mean that the Danes are not allowed to decide for themselves what they want to eat around the dinner table.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143043	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143044	Thank you. Just to follow up on this before, I would say that if we start from the individual child, then a tiny child does not really have the opportunity to influence whether it should be in an institution or not, if the parents have decided otherwise. But now I would like to ask a little something else, and it is in line with Mrs Pernille Skipper's statement that she simply does not have a requirement to influence foreign policy if social democracy should come to power after an election. How will the alternative use its power, its influence, as a parliamentary basis? Does the alternative plan to make demands on foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143131	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143132	I'm not going to stand up here today. I might as well say that once and for all and define the ultimate demands of the Alternative. We shall go to the forthcoming negotiations, if it turns out that we will be involved in them, I was just about to say. It depends on the outcome of the elections, after all, it is an exciting choice that we will be faced with next time. We always go to the task of an ambition to influence the future government to pursue as green and democratic a policy as possible. We would like to see Denmark in a greener direction, in a more democratic direction and in a more equal direction. That is what we are going to go to the negotiating table with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143209	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143217	Thank you, and thank you for one as usual inspiring speech. After all, at many levels we are very much in agreement with the alternative's vision of the green transition, but one of the places where we sometimes have a little debate is how to ensure a social balance in the context of a green transition. We're talking, for example. Green taxes, there is the problem that they often turn the heavy end down and, for example, they turn the heavy end down. allows people with high incomes to continue to have a high consumption of products that are environmentally harmful cars and what it may be while the ordinary employee family, who may live far away from public transport, gets into trouble. That was also something we debated when the alternative came up with its financial bill last year, I think it was. Where is the alternative today in terms of finding that balance, for example? in connection with the taxation of consumer goods of various kinds, which ordinary people also need and use?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143325	We are standing where we would prefer to see any climate policy being socially progressive, that is to say, of course, that we are taking into account the groups in society that are at the lowest levels of benefit in relation to the necessary climate measures. Now Mr. Pelle Dragsted our draft Finance Bill from last year that we introduced among other things. a doubling of the green cheque, which, it might be said, is a definite higher deduction to the lowest incomes, precisely in order to compensate for some of the climate measures that exist and we abolish the ceiling on cash aid. So we have a number of measures in relation to the Finance Act, which, at the same time, leaves much more room for manoeuvre in terms of the lowest revenue. So, of course, this is something we are very aware of, and that is why we are very concerned to ensure, when we come up with climate measures that go beyond the consumer, that it is balanced so that they do not hit socially wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143413	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143414	Thank you. But for example... in a very specific question about such things as taxes on cars and fuel and such things, many people are still away around the country, who simply cannot really make everyday life hang together, and I think there is at least a challenge when you look at a tax change. In other words, if we tax-free electric cars and all cars are electric cars, then there is a revenue that will be missing in the treasury. So how, on the one hand, will we ensure social balancing in this transition, but, on the other hand, we also ensure that, if I may say so, we do not erode the foundations of our welfare societies?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143452	So, in relation to the traffic area, it is of course a question of ensuring a level playing field when we go in and make traffic policy. We understand very well that you live in the countryside and are dependent on having a car to get back and forth, so you are not in the same way as if you live in the middle of Copenhagen and can take the metro, and we must take that into account when we make our transport policy, also in relation to energy efficiency improvements and contributions to the green transition. So that is quite right and it is also something that we are very aware of. We certainly do not want to take away freedom from the individual, in terms of how one can also have flexibility in one's everyday life, while at the same time contributing to the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143533	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143536	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for talking about freedom. Many of us appreciate that, I think. The speech could also have been about the dream of the next Denmark or the dreams of the next Denmark as I might have preferred it, because there are probably many different dreams about the next Denmark. In any case, the alternative's dream of the next Denmark is somewhat different from mine and Liberal Alliance's dreams of the next Denmark. The alternative is dreaming of abolishing private property rights guaranteed by the constitution and creating a society in which we can no longer own land in the future, but only rent land. The alternative has also recently criticised the government for restricting liberal freedoms, which is why I would like to ask Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier if she does not agree that private property, as described in the Basic Law, is in fact a liberal freedom right, and that the dream of the alternative would then also limit that right of liberty.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143650	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143651	First of all, I should like to make it clear that we have not proposed abolishing ownership, but we are proposing that a debate on ownership be held. So that's pretty much true. We believe that what is interesting about it is that it is linked to the understanding of freedom that I presented to you that freedom goes to where you start to step on the freedom of others, and that is for example. the possession of property is a very good example. And it is also a question of whether, for example, we will achieve it. big capital funds come to Denmark and only for own profit buys land that could be used for the community's good in Denmark, so don't have to have a necessary discussion about whether the way we distribute our property and land in Denmark is fair. That's kind of what we're up to, but we're doing it a lot in the optics that there are some elements on this planet, fire, air, land and water, all of which are common, and which are in one way or another something that you can't just have, because then you take it at the same time from others. We are no longer going away from Greenland until we have a different understanding of ownership. So we are just calling for a necessary debate on whether it is fair that it is distributed as it is right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143800	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143801	Thank you. In fact, in that account I think the alternative may seem to overlook the fact that a fairly large proportion of Danish wealth has been created on the basis of private property and that, as private owners of land or company, you are also allowed to keep the fruit that the work you are doing is, however, one can say, after all, after a tax. After all, as politicians, when we need funding for various measures, we tend to stick to taxation and not confiscation and expropriation. I assume that the alternative, if you want to deprive land, will also compensate, and where will the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143847	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143848	Well, first of all, we are not going to go out and start stripping all Danes of their land. But what is interesting, and as the rapporteur himself points out, is that it is now more profitable to own than it is worthwhile to work, and the value of owning something or inheriting something, about the discussion about the inheritance tax, is not something that anyone has earned it. It is something that is born into the conditions of life with which they come into existence. It is therefore necessary to have a debate on whether it is fair that in today's Denmark it pays more to own than it pays to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143922	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530143925	Also a thank you from me for a nice speech. I share many of the intentions expressed by the alternative. Yesterday we marked a celebratory day in the Danish Parliament, namely the hundredth anniversary of the entry into service of the premises, but it was also a special day for equality in Denmark, as it marked the hundredth anniversary of the first election where women could vote and where women were elected to the Folketing. After all, I think equality is one of the fundamental values of freedom that has been achieved over time in Denmark, which may have had the greatest importance and which we value most. What I would like to see is that when we talk about freedom, it was that women entered the labour market and economic independence that resulted from it, a gain for freedom and for equality and, incidentally, for our society, because we became richer and could create welfare. My question is: Is it not also crucial that you meet people with high expectations, that there is therefore not the freedom to be at peace with your own challenges and be allowed to go home or care for yourself, but that we really meet everyone who needs to be in Denmark with the same expectations that here we are free and equal and that everyone contributes with what they can?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144038	I think that is so well worded, and I can only agree with that. When I say this about the freedom to participate in democratic communities, it is also about freedom not necessarily being about us thinking that people want to lie at home on the couch and enjoy life, but that there is a freedom in being part of a community, among other things. A community which brought about the democratic achievements of the entire women's movement. Freedom is about being allowed to be part of a democratic community, to feel that you have a value, and to feel that you are helping to contribute to society, but also to influence society in what direction we should take. That is why I think it is a very good example of equality. We're not there yet. I could mention earmarked maternity as one of the things that we point out in the Alternative and will do again over the next few years, because that is one of the places where we are lagging behind. And as long as we do not dare to say that women are not free when we do not want to earmark any of this maternity leave or give as many rights to men as to women, we will have this discussion over and over again. Because freedom is not just about negotiating at home around the dining table. It is also about some structural conditions that make women today...
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144149	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144150	In fact, I think that sometimes we tend to lower our expectations of perhaps particularly new fellow citizens. We can see the research document that there are systematically lower expectations in schools of pupils who have a two-language background. There is also evidence that people in the labour market do not meet the same expectations or perhaps the same demands to do what they can to contribute with what they can now. My point is that I think it's almost the worst thing you can do about people. What makes people most unfree is if you do not have expectations of them and if you do not meet people with the same high expectations and therefore also demands that everyone do what they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144237	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144239	Well, I totally agree. That's one of them. also why, when we get new Danes to Denmark, we need a job for them from day one so that they can go out and contribute to society. I think it is also such a strange thought that we have had in Denmark. And it is a criticism of all wings in Danish politics that you may have had such an understanding: Now you also need to take it easy, and then we will find a job for you, and here in Denmark you can go on public support. It's not like you shouldn't be able to. But I think there are a lot of people who come to a country like ours who are used to working. It is simply part of the raison d'être. That is also why we are criticising this because they say that we are working only for the money. That is not true, because we are also working for the sake of value and for the sake of meaning for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144319	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144322	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for the visions as always. I would like to ask about the Danish primary school, which the alternative would like to change. I want to do that myself, so it's a little interesting to talk about what it is you want to change. I saw that the Alternative was out with a proposal to replace the subjects, not to abolish the subjects, but to replace the subjects history, social subjects, physics, all the subjects that the students have in the Danish primary school, with such themes as citizenship, climate and sustainability, art and culture and recognition. Besides, you didn't have to have any exams to assess it. My concern is if you ask me by doing so is such an old, classical academic mindset. My concern is that it is how one will ever ensure that the professionally weak pupils can find their way around all this when one suddenly abolishes the trades and replaces them with this other. And how do you want to make sure that there is time for reflection in the individual subjects when you're going to have these themes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144431	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144432	Thank you. I think, sir. Jacob Mark asked the same question a few years ago, so there are answers to it in writing, I think, somewhere. What we included in our school project was, after all, a question of creating a new framework for the existing subjects. So this isn't about replacing the trades. But we created a new framework, which had some new headlines, among others. citizenship under which there was history and social science, and we had climate subjects that have the science subjects under them. So there is nothing different in terms of content in the subjects from what already exists. Then we have a proposal for a recognition subject. It is true, it is a little new in that it is a specific educational subject that we would like to see introduced into primary school. And then we have upgraded the crafts and creative subjects all the way up through primary school. So in our proposal we have made some changes, but not a replacement. It's not like we're throwing out any of what's already there. In terms of how to practice it in everyday life, we have the basic view that the public schools should have much more autonomy in relation to how they teach children within the overall framework legislation that we make on the part of the Danish Parliament. So a little more hands off the politicians' side out in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144541	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144542	I think it is a very good idea to give schools more freedom. But when you replace subjects where there is room for professional immersion with such themes, I am simply afraid that the weakest pupils can no longer find their way around it. I am also afraid that the professionalism one has to have in the individual subjects will disappear if the whole thing becomes a theme thing. Then I also just have to ask for the Alternative fights, as we do, for a shorter school day, and I think you will have a significantly shorter school day: how can you both have the classic subjects, have new themes and have a new recognition subject and then have significantly shorter school days?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144616	Well, we're not replacing subjects with themes. Then the rapporteur has misunderstood. We do not replace with themes. We have put some new descriptions into the subjects that already exist. It is quite the same content; the immersion is quite as possible as it is today. There is nothing different in relation to how schools will work in social sciences or geography or English, or what I know. We'll put some new headlines on it. In relation to the length, it is true that in our proposal we go back to the old school day, that is, the length of the old school week. Some changes have, of course, had to be made there. Because we can't just put on more. So we have withdrawn some of the extra hours laid in Danish and mathematics again, so we are back by, as it was before the primary school reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144700	Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144701	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Magdalene Maier for a very good rapporteur speech. In general, I believe that the Danes demand that we spend more energy telling about what we each want to do than criticize what others disagree with. It became a speech that was very much about freedom. It also made me think about the limits of freedom, and it led me to an article that I read in Jyllands-Posten two days ago. It was an article that had the headline in, out, out, out, out: Why don't the police actually just stay on Pusher Street? ▪ I think that was a very obvious question that many have considered. Why don't the police just stay on Pusher Street? According to the Copenhagen Police, they do not, because there have been 53 cases of violence since the beginning of the year, and because there is an unusually high level of violence at Christiania. I find that very difficult to accept. I would like to ask the rapporteur what the rapporteur has of proposals on how to resolve this, and I would like to add a paragraph to the question, namely that the answer must not be that we should just legalise hashish. How do we resolve this with respect for the majority of our democracy that has decided that hashish should not be legal? How do we solve the challenges at Christiania?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144814	But we cannot ask a question and at the same time say what the rapporteur cannot answer. It's a difficult premise to be subjected to from up here. In fact, I travel a lot through Christiania because I live at Christianshavn and have a colonial garden over the other side of Christiania. So I get there a lot and see the inappropriate thing in Christiania as it is today. I also see how the stalls get up two days after they've been cleared. Nobody thinks it's very nice. But I also have to argue that we are here on the political side to say: that cannot be right; we cannot tolerate that. No, that's right. I think so too; that is quite right. I don't think it can be right either. But when we come up with solutions, we may have to take a step back as politicians and say: let us try some other solutions. Then it may be that we lose face because what we try, for example. is to say: Now we legalize it so that we take the spirit out of this market. But we know that this is probably the only possible solution as it stands right now. Because we've been trying to use huge resources in Pusher Street. We keep sending the police out there, and there's still a conflict escalation. We cannot continue in the same groove, so we will have to dare to try something else, even if that means going back in relation to something that we may have decided in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144921	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144922	I just basically find it very difficult to accept that there may be places in Denmark where the police can't move and where they can't be on a day-to-day basis, because there is an unusually high level of readiness for violence. You get broken tiles in your head when you're there. There are so many cases of violence. We have decided here in the Folketing that hashish should not be legal; it is a democratically elected assembly that has decided it. Is there anywhere else in society that we should be able to threaten ourselves to change legislation only with the readiness of violence? I would just like to know that in principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530144952	No, I don't see it as a threat to change the law. But it is also true that although there is not a majority in the Folketing right now for us to legalise cannabis, there are the daily challenges in the City of Copenhagen. So we may also have to look at the reality, which is not ours, but is that of the municipalities from time to time. So if the City of Copenhagen, and indeed the Social Democratic Party in the lead, asks if they can't get to try an attempt where they legalize to get rid of this, then I think we should actually be able to say, "Okay, then you get to try it."
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145021	Then it's mr. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145025	Thank you for the floor. Thanks to Mrs Magdalene Maier for an exciting speech and also thanks for a good debate we had recently in P1, where, under a rather dramatic headline about Sweden being lost, we discussed whether or not to have Swedish conditions in foreign policy and where Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier advocated that we could learn a lot from Sweden when it was about foreign policy. Is it still an attitude that is being adopted in the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145105	Now I think we're going to listen through that program again, because that's not what I said. What I said was that what we can learn from Sweden is to stick to humanism. This does not mean that we should adopt Sweden's immigration policy, because I do not think so. But the fact that people in Sweden have stuck to the humanistic morals that they have had in meeting people who are having a hard time is something we can learn from. We must therefore say that we in Denmark have had some restrictions on foreigners, some of which are certainly reasonable enough, while others have simply crossed the line of what we can decently allow ourselves as politicians, among other things. that we in this country are saying no to quota refugees, that is to say those who are in the worst position. So we can learn from Sweden's humanism, but we should not adopt their foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145133	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145134	Yes, in relation to the tightenings that have been adopted here in the Parliamentary Chamber, 76 in total, you have only voted for two of them, so that must be a very small proportion of them. So I guess it's more Swedish conditions you want in the foreign debate than what we have now. I guess that's what you're going to negotiate with if there's going to be a government base with you as a government base.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145154	We are not putting Denmark against Sweden. After all, it is a false premise to put it up as if we are either going to have Danish conditions or we are going to have Swedish conditions. There are some other solutions that we have pointed out. We have pointed out, and we continue to point out, that we are pushing for the European Union to create a solidarity key where the other EU countries also contribute and where they contribute according to both ability and capacity, but also prosperity in the country in which they live. So it is not because there are no other solutions, and you should not just set it up as if we are either doing as Sweden or we are doing as Denmark. We must bring humanism into everything we do in the field of foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145225	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145227	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the question that Mr. Mads Fuglede just asked, but where it might have been a little tricky with such a rather concrete answer from the rapporteur. So I will try to help the rapporteur perhaps to respond a little more specifically to that. What I understand the rapporteur and the alternative say is that we can learn from the Swedish immigration policy because our foreign policy in Denmark must be more humane. That's how I get it in headlines. That is where the rapporteur must correct me if I have misunderstood it. If it is to be so, then where is it that we need to change our policy on foreigners in a more relaxed way, can I understand? It was the case under the previous government that Mr. Morten Østergaard boasted that the policy on foreigners was relaxed or improved in 45 areas. Is that what the alternative would like? For a number of the restrictions that have been made under this government have been an attempt to close some of the gaps created under the previous government. So where is the alternative really, and what is the practical point of learning from the Swedes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145339	We must be careful not to bring strawmen in this Chamber. I have not said that we should learn from or adopt Swedish immigration policy. However, I have said that the humanism and the ethical sense of other people traditionally and historically held in Sweden are something we can learn from. We think that it has been let go in Denmark. I can say again that we need to have a better distribution system through the EU, in relation to how we receive people to Denmark. So what this is all about is that when we have taken some people here, we have to treat them properly. This means that they must, of course, have the right to family reunification. We can't separate families from each other. Of course you need proper treatment when you're here. One should not be placed on an island or an island, I was saying, so the children, for example. If an asylum seeker has been refused, he must not go to school with the Danish children. It's obscene. There is something humanity that we need to bring into it, in terms of how we treat the people who live in our society and stay in our society. We see stories of a mother being sent out of the country and a two-month-old daughter being left at home. I have a story from North Jutland where Muhammad, who works at the slaughterhouse, is sent out because he earns just a little too little and he contributes to Danish society, he is a member of a Danish party. Such things are unworthy of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145450	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145500	It's still a little unclear for me what exactly we need to change. So, we have to allow the slaughterhouse worker to stay in Denmark. Is that what you have to understand? We should not place anyone on an island or a desert island, what we are not doing today. Where is it that we do not welcome people today, help people in need in the world and also help many in the world with help locally? Where are we doing this all wrong? I find it difficult to see it, and I would like to know what the policy of the alternative is in relation to the Radical Left. Sometimes it may sound as if it is an echo of the Radical Left when one hears the policy of the alternative presented. Can you tell us a little more about what the policy of the alternative in the field of foreigners is? And what specific demands will be made in this area to support Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145547	Thank you. The rapporteur then has 30 seconds to do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145549	That was 30 seconds to a long question. We are not going to make concrete demands or demands from up here today. But it's all about making jobs available from day one. That's some of it, sir. Morten Østergaard mentioned earlier. This is a trade, for example. also that when we keep saying that we want foreigners coming to Denmark to know the Danish values, our constitution and our democratic rights, it might be that we should teach them in their mother tongue so that they understand what is being said. There is a lot of grip that we can use to ensure integration much more, also in relation to the way we in civil society handle this. It is about becoming part of a community and feeling that when you come up here to Denmark you are part of the Danish community. And the Danish policy does not contribute to that right now, and certainly not to the tone of Danish policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145630	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145632	Thank you. It is then the final graduation debate before the next parliamentary elections, which is why it is natural to look towards the next parliamentary elections. If you read Uffe Elbæk's February newsletter, you can see that it says that the alternative in no way supports the social democracy's refugee initiative. That is why it is reasonable to ask that question now. The alternative was not included in the proposal for adoption with the Socialists this time. Whether it is so important for the Alternative that it is important for whether or not to point to the Social Democracy, i.e. whether one can see oneself in the immigration policy being pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145718	When we get so far that we are going to negotiate, it will of course be important for the alternative to be able to see itself in all the major policy areas in Denmark. In addition, I cannot say much more today, because it will depend on a specific debate, it will depend on a specific situation in relation to where we stand. But of course we are going to the table with some wishes and with some very general fundamental views on how we think we should conduct foreign policy in Denmark. And it is no secret that there may not be any super closeness to social democracy. But that is why we are not going out today and saying that it is never possible to do so. I simply do not want to stand on the platform today and speculate that it can go one way or the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145803	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145804	No, I understand that there must also be a further dialogue towards a parliamentary election, but that is why it is still interesting, because is there any real alternative for the alternative to pointing to Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister after an election? One thing is that you say that you want to stand firm and that you want to have an influence on all areas, and I understand that you want to; that is what politicians want but is there any alternative to the alternative if you can put it that way? So, is there any alternative at all to pointing to Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister? Would it be possible to point to a third prime minister? I doubt, of course, that the alternative might point to the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145841	Well, that's an interesting suggestion. But what we allerally want is to talk politics when we come to the next elections, and I hope that the same applies to all parties in this Parliament. Let us now go to that election and speak politics and not people. And if we can get beyond the fact that we have to stand in such a presidential campaign, as we have done in the last few elections, then it would be an enrichment for Danish politics, that is, that we can start talking politics and not so much people. So our very clear approach to it is that we come out and talk politics, that we come out and point out what it is for a Denmark, the alternative would like, what it is for a next Denmark we want, and from there we take the further negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145918	Then it's mr. Øjvind Vilsholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145921	Thank you. Both the Enhedslisten and the Alternative are in favour of making Øresund an internationally protected marine area. How does the Alternative feel about us looking at several places in Denmark, where you can implement protected natural areas? impose a prohibition on the use of bottom trawls?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530145944	Well, the Øresund is a very special gem. I think we can all agree on that. We swim in it and I dive in it. And of course we must ensure full and permanent protection of the Øresund as much as we possibly can. There I know it was discussed earlier in this session, I know, not by me, but by our rapporteur, that we very much agree with Enhedslisten that we need to ensure full and permanent protection for some of these areas in the Øresund. I believe that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has actually identified eight areas that can be protected by nature, and that will clearly be what we are working for in our own nature initiative from last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150018	Well, that's really good. And we may also agree that we should have more protected nature, both at sea and on land. However, in our view, it is also important that, at the same time, we ensure that people have access to nature. And Enhedslisten has previously suggested that all-man rights should be introduced in Danish nature, i.e. on land. What is the alternative to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150050	We think it might be very interesting to introduce such a model in Denmark too, and we will certainly not reject that. I think we've all been inspired by the Swedish model, haven't we? You come to Sweden, and then you suddenly experience freedom: God, here I can set up my tent wherever I want. Because there are quite strict rules on what to do in Danish forests. It may well be that everyone doesn't know that you can ride a bicycle and walk on the trails, but you can't actually go into the forest floor. Well, I'm sure we all do that once in a while because we don't know, but there are actually quite strict rules in Denmark. So we are very much in favour of looking at the Swedish model, in other words, in relation to the right of all men in Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150128	Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150129	Thank you. I think that Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier is saying a few things that go in different directions, and it may be that the rapporteur can help me to get some clarity about this. Because, on the one hand, we have a long and good talk about freedom and we in the Liberal Alliance can only agree with that, so it is nice and, on the other hand, there is a very warm dream of abolishing private property. What does that mean? Well, is it freedom to force people to return their private property? I can't really get that to hang out. Then Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier replied to Mr. Carsten Bach earlier: No, we don't want to force people to surrender their property. But how is this going to happen? If you want to abolish private land ownership and transfer it all to the state and you do not want to force people to hand it over, how is this going to happen? In other words, does the rapporteur think that the Danes are queued up to hand over their property, or has the alternative got a few hundred billion kroner that we other people don't know about, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150238	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150240	No, we don't have that much money in the alternative. When we bring this proposal forward, it is because we would like to have the opportunity to discuss whether it is really true that there is the ownership in Denmark. Is it not time for us to have a conversation about whether it is actually fair that so few own so much land, but also that the land is something that we should actually share in the community, but we do not do so in Denmark. That is not to say that we will be tabling a motion for a resolution in the next session on the abolition of property rights. But what we could start by discussing was this: do foreign capital funds come and buy large lands in Denmark to make profits on them for their own gain, which they may even bring home to their own country, is that the way we should use the Danish land? Well, I'd like to ask that back to the Liberal Alliance. Is it okay that we use our common Danish land for foreign investors to come and buy it to build housing on which they earn their own money, or build other things where they then pull the profit out, instead of that land benefiting Denmark and the community?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150344	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150347	Now it sounds as if the rapporteur has not only tabled a motion for a resolution, but has also adopted it when she talks about our common Danish land, because ownership has not been abolished. So people who have worked hard and long to afford to buy some land own it; so it is their land. And I didn't quite get an answer as to how asking them to hand it over fits with this talk of freedom. I still don't understand. And can Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier give some examples of countries where you have freedom, prosperity and prosperity and where you do not have private property?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150424	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150428	In our own kingdom community you do not have private ownership in Greenland. It may well be that you do not have welfare and prosperity to the extent that we have in Denmark, but I think that is enough. I've just been up there last year, and it's actually a very nice country. And the principle that they celebrate in Greenland, precisely because the Greenlandic soil is so valuable to the Greenlanders, is really interesting in principle. And no, we're not going to go out and tell all Danes to turn in their land. But in relation to land that is for sale, for example, let us just say so, and the whole idea of what to do with the new reasons that come up along the way, one might ask: should they be sold to a foreign fund, or should they benefit the community?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150507	Then it's Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150510	Thank you. I would like to ask you a few questions about the inheritance tax. In May 38 the alternative presented proposals and ideas on how the next Denmark should look, and the alternative writes that a new and more progressive inheritance tax should be introduced. Today, the effective inheritance tax rate is up to 36.25%. Does the alternative consider it reasonable that relatives should be taxed more heavily when their family members die?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150553	One might ask whether it is reasonable that the way we distribute welfare in Denmark is unequal, depending on how much you inherit. And it is the case in Denmark that the most wealthy inherit the most, and the least wealthy inherit the least, so that is why the inheritance tax contributes to the social inequality. What we are proposing is to raise the bottom, so it is not the case that we just want to put full inheritance tax on all income groups. We want to raise the bottom as much as DKK 500,000, so if you inherit up to DKK 500,000, you don't have to pay inheritance tax. If you inherit from 500,000 to 1 million. kr., you have to pay the inheritance tax rate we know today, and then you get over 1 million. kr., you have to pay twice the rate today. So this is not a question of just taxing everyone with a high inheritance tax, but of actually wanting to make it progressive, so that it benefits those who actually inherit the least, and those who then inherit a great deal, because they have hardly worked for it; some of them have, but there are also many who have inherited it and where it has gone through several generations must then just spit a little more into the common fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150657	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150658	I see that the alternative also writes: 'If inequality continues to increase, we should continuously adjust the tax rate. Does this mean that there is no ceiling on the amount of the inheritance tax? Can one really get into a situation where, according to the alternative, the inheritance tax would be 100%??
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150734	I cannot say yes or no to that today. I mean, I can't stand here and guess what might be the future need. But what I can say is that, when we come out with this proposal, it is basically because there is such a imbalance in the distribution of capital, too, of income, but the much, much higher that capital. And it is a problem for our society that we have the inequality that we have. As I mentioned in the speech, it's 10%. of the Danes who own half of our values. That's not fair. On a global scale, it's much, much worse. So it is simply a question of responding to the inequality where we know it is greatest, and it is therefore one of them. in relation to inheritance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150804	Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150806	Thank you. In the Left, we are very pleased and satisfied that we have tightened up immigration policy well and thoroughly now during this period of government. After all, it is no secret that the alternative has made a great virtue out of distance to it and has been against it. There has been virtually no support for any of this. Now I understand from the part of the debate that has taken place so far, with the Alternative's rapporteur, that we are virtually talking away from making ultimate demands if there is to be a majority in favour of a change of government. If you look forward to a future financial law and then you have the situation that the rest of the parties on the left are demanding the removal of the benefits of integration, then the alternative comes in a key role where they can no longer talk out of it with a supposedly socialist finance minister. Will the alternative then put its political capital in order to demand that the integration service be removed and say that otherwise you pull the curtain away, it will not be the government, but you may still want to do so, but at least the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150909	No, because I am not here to answer specific questions of negotiation that lie in the future. Again, they are also hypothetical questions. However, I would like to reply to what we think about the benefits of integration. Because in the Finance Act that we presented last year and, as it were, last year, which has been fully funded for the last crown and even with room for manoeuvre, we have funded the removal of the integration benefit. So there is no doubt that the alternative would like to eliminate the benefits of integration. We don't help people by making them poorer. We do not help people to integrate into Danish society by making them poor. So it is certainly a political issue for us, but when we are in a specific debate we are taking stock of the situation and I am not going to stand on the floor today and say yes or no to negotiating issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150952	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530150954	Thank you. Then it's just as unclear as all the other answers we've got in this area. The alternative is against the tightening-up that has taken place, but you live with it, because you cannot really get through with anything else. Then you have sold your political project.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151013	The alternative will always fight for the policy of the alternative. The policy of the alternative is to be found in our own party programme, and we have this financial law that we put forward last year, where we have actually financed the political proposals that we would put into effect if we had 90 mandates. I don't think we'll get that. But that is our policy. That is what we are going to work for and towards and how we are going to do it, of course, depends on the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151035	We'll get to two more questions. It's sir. Christian Juhl and Mr. Carl Holst. It's first, sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151041	Thank you. The rapporteur started by saying very well that, especially after the alternative has been introduced, more green policy is being discussed in the Folketing. I feel that I have great respect for the alternative's green policy, but at 23 years of age I was at my first demonstration with NOAH. At that time it was all about sorting waste and stuff like that, and our study group was acting among other things. on a sustainable world based on the old report • Guidelines for growth. Back then, we were young people who looked up to the big, old wise people who explained what coalition course we were on on this globe. Since then I have thought that it is not acceptable to say that I am the most green, because I am traveling on the back of some old movements that have worked so hard. We have now reached a point where everyone would like to talk about the environment, but I think we should talk about it as something that a movement has brought to where it is now that we are talking about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151147	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151149	Thank you. Now I cannot find my speech, but otherwise I would have read out what I said, because there must be no doubt that the alternative recognises the efforts of all the other parties in relation to the green transition and to talking about a green policy. What I said in my speech was that when we arrived in the Danish Parliament in 2015, not many people wanted to talk about nature and the environment and climate. That said, that is not what was at the head of the political debate at the time. It has come since then. It was certainly not to try to give ourselves credit for being those who have changed it. It was simply a statement that we can feel a difference in the political environment and the political conversation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151228	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151229	Thank you. I'll go a little further, too. In particular, I would like to thank the movements outside Parliament that have been holding this debate for decades, sometimes without getting any impact, but now it is the case that hardly any parties dare not talk about it. I think we should thank all the activists for that. In this light, I would like to hear the reason why the alternative will not be included in the greenest proposal for adoption so far, and especially with the Social Democrats this time, because we were very close to being able to make a unanimous opinion. What is the reason why the alternative opts out when it is as green as it is and chooses to have a statement itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151305	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151308	There is nothing in the text for adoption, the green text for adoption, if we are to call it what the alternative does not agree with, so it is certainly not because we do not agree with the text that we do not agree with it. When we have chosen to be on another text together with Radicals, it has been because in addition to a green focus, which then takes up less space, there is a criticism of the government's political efforts especially in relation to being equal and free and equal people. We really think that is quite appropriate to criticise at the end of a parliamentary year when we have seen a very large reduction in freedoms. However, if we could be involved in two texts for adoption, we would be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151349	The last question is Mr. Carl Holst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151352	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a well thought-out speech. I can say that it is limited, on what common basis of value we are based in relation to a political starting point. But I think I would like to commend the alternative for being good at having some political discussion papers. I think you are one of the parties that is trying to draw attention to your existence and attitude and value in terms of discussion papers, and I think you deserve praise for that. Perhaps you could ask for other parties to be inspired by it, that is to say, to put forward what you meant. In one of your discussion papers, a Coherent Denmark, 38 different proposals are used. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether there have been any calculations or any reflections on the economic consequences of the 38 proposals. What's it gonna cost?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151456	It is a vision paper and it is at a level where it is not something we are going to realize tomorrow or in 14 days or in 2 years' time for that matter. It is a vision paper that presents what it really is for a Denmark we would like to have. All we have to do is look out the window. I mentioned earlier in the Chamber today the Children's Council study on how many children are ill. There are a lot of people walking around with pain in their lives. There are awful many people in our society who feel lonely. And we have a galloping climate crisis. So we have simply been forced to address some fundamental challenges in our society that we believe have gone a long way in relation to what we humans are really created for. We weren't made to live in the community we have out there right now. We can see that when we look out the window and see how many people feel bad. So that's what that paper addresses. It is at a vision level and therefore it is not financed as if it were a political catalogue of what we wanted to realise from, for example. Tomorrow and forward. It is part of our financial act, which, in turn, is well funded.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151554	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151555	These are many good proposals, but extremely expensive proposals if all 38 proposals are taken together. I say this because economic sustainability is also essential in relation to what you are resting on in order to be able to unfold the visions you have. But then we'll take another subject. The alternative is that foreign aid should be increased to 5%. of gross domestic product. I know it's gonna cost about 100 billion. kr. Where's that money coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151629	I am delighted with that question, because now I have another opportunity to put some misunderstandings in place. The 5%. come from a chronicle or a discussion post, which our former alternate in the Folketing Anders Stjernholm wrote, in which he rhetorically asked: Could one imagine increasing development aid e.g. to 3% or 5%, which has then been presented, as the alternative now seems to us that we should increase development aid to 5%.? We do not, but we do not think that it is enough with the 0.7%. In our own draft budget from last year, we proposed 1%. It may also be too little, but the day we bring something, we will make sure we fund it. But it is certainly not enough as it is now, and certainly not because we spend so much of it on Danish asylum treatment and not for help abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151708	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. The time for questions is over, and we move on to Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530151718	Integration is not about skin color, not religion. It's about choosing Denmark for. ▪ Quit quoting, for a quote is it. The words are true, the words are important, and they are the Prime Minister's from the opening speech in October. 48 hours later, after a heated opening debate, both the Prime Minister and Mrs Mette Frederiksen were in favour of a burka ban, not when the debate started, but before the end of the day. Two shifts of attitude from a prime minister and one who would like to be. On the basis of reality? Nah, based on the now classic christian castle game of power, which repeatedly takes its focal point in minorities, the different, what our fundamental freedoms should actually guarantee the right to, namely to share a country and a community without having to be the same. It is under pressure, and the opening debate was only a warning. Then came the parallel society package, which makes up for one of the most precious things we have, namely equality before the law. Whether you want Denmark or not, you must now be subject to special rules if you live in a exposed residential area. Double penalty, forced cradle rooms, pre-school stop tests. One set of rules for specific addresses, one for all of us. It's the figurative rug without end. Meanwhile, the problems of the Danes remain unresolved. I would have liked to have given the floor to some of them today, but they have not spoken here in the Things. But the Danes who exist and who feel overheard by me that you, of us in here, and whom I have met on my trip around Denmark, have therefore invited me to be here at the graduation debate today. These are some of the people who live in the vulnerable residential areas whose homes the Prime Minister calls holes in the Danish map. In Gellerup, for example. I met Shadi, who is in the gallery. He wondered why his parents, who came here in 1985 as refugees, were allowed to sit at home in the apartment and receive money without any serious counterclaims being made. Shadi is frustrated and puzzled that as a society we do not have higher expectations of his parents and the parents of others and their generation and are sure that this is the reason why too many people have not gone well enough. Then I ask: Dear Parliament, why is it not here with the many whom Shadi's parents we put in? During the past year, a majority has agreed not to allow the recipients of cash benefits to live but has not lifted a finger to get them into work or training. Today I stand with Shadi when I say: stop letting people go home alone with their problems for years. Nothing good has ever come of that. We need everyone. If you can't work, you can train yourself to get closer to it, every day, all week, year round and never on cash benefits for more than 3 years. Why not? Brian's up there, too. Brian has come here from Hanstholm, and he once agreed with the Danish People's Party. Then he hired Ibrahim from Aleppo. Brian is director of Famm Seafood, and Ibrahim is one of the first refugees he employed to cut fish on normal terms without a crown in support. At the Prime Minister's request, Brian took the refugees into business practice. Those who could do the job got it. Everyone won, and Brian got the municipal integration prize, even handed over by the Minister of Integration in his own high person. But now Brian feels ridiculous and provoked because Ibrahim's colleague from Somalia as the first on Famm Seafood must be sent back. The case has been postponed, but the risk is still there. Today I am standing with Brian when I say: stop ruining business integration work. Stop bothering people who contribute and take care of themselves. Dear Parliament, let refugees get to work from the first day, and let those who do themselves and contribute and show that they want to stay in Denmark. Why not? Finally we also have a visit from Anders. On a cold February night, I was in the living room with Anders' mother and father. They live in an ordinary residential area just outside one of Denmark's most vulnerable residential areas. With a heavy mind they told me the story of their son, Anders' brother, who went to a Danish primary school, where more and more bilinguals had arrived, and where fewer and fewer children with Danish background eventually went. Suddenly their son was the last with ethnic Danish background in the class. Everyone who knows me and the Radical Left knows that I only want the best for our bilingual fellow citizens, for their children and for integration. But when over years, and we all bear a share of responsibility here, we have allowed schools to become so divided that they do not reflect the society in which we live, and many therefore do not want to send their children there at all, we lose some of the most precious thing we have. That is why today I am dealing with Anders and his family and a lot of the bilingual parents I have met on my way when I say: Let's get rid of the divided schools. Dear Parliament, instead of making special rules for special people in special areas, let us listen to parents, both those who are bilingual and those who have Danish as their mother tongue and who want a mixed composition of children in crèches, kindergartens, schools and high schools across social and cultural divides. Why not? A parliamentary year has passed, but at Christiansborg we have not solved the challenges that Shadi and Brian and Anders and his family have pointed out, on the contrary. And how did we get here? Yes, it started when our two prime minister candidates gave up and fell into power, resigned, and fought for who dares to go the farest towards the Danish People's Party. If we continue along this path, it may not only be the Foreign or Defence rapporteurs of the Danish People's Party who pay tribute to Orbán's Hungary or do not see an enemy in Putin's Russia and want Denmark's membership of the European Union to be voted on. It may be the next government. If we continue along this path, it may be with a government that, like the Danish People's Party, believes that the climate struggle is the fight against windmills and acknowledges poorly that climate change is man-made and that fails to fight the climate change of reality, which we are the last generation to do something about. If we continue along this path, it may be a government that abandons the goal of the next generation being better educated than we are, because the money must be spent on things other than our children's upbringing, school and education. If we continue along this path, the recovery will hardly be transformed into new opportunities for those who have the least, but perhaps a deep-rooted acceptance of poverty, as long as it mainly affects minority groups, and a continued insistence on dictating who is Danish enough to become part of our community. Because with the Danish People's Party's path we have leaders who dig ditches, rule with punishment and coercion, and who love symbol politics designed for election campaign rather than reality, and that is the way that too many at Christiansborg are running right now. The Danes can then choose between two prime minister candidates who both insist that the state decide where you can live if you are a cash help recipient; which clothes you may wear; whom you may fall in love with if your family life is to be in Denmark. Vote for him who is Prime Minister, or her who will be the difference is the same and too much the way of the Danish People's Party. I think the Danes deserve a choice. Shadi, Brian, Anders and many with them hunger for a new way for Denmark, where we find real solutions to the real problems, where we solve problems with those that are about and where we fight for something rather than against someone. And I am insurmountable optimist, for of course one of the world's best and greenest welfare societies can bring about the change that so many are eager to see. Why shouldn't we? That's how we've become them, we're by not bending our necks for the future, but by looking it right in the eye and shaping it according to our common desires. That's how we can make a difference to those who are harder than us and to those who are coming after us. It will require piles of compromises, and we are always ready to make them. Above all, however, I believe that it requires a will for a new leadership that fights what divides us and does not make us shut ourselves down; which puts the fight against climate change first and foremost. Rather than settle for what we have to do, we must set out to achieve everything we can. 100% Green power and heat, 60% reduction of CO2 It must be a leadership that insists that children's upbringing and education should never be the victim of the savings knife; which creates access to education throughout Denmark and which will cultivate children's diversity, creativity and critical thinking rather than the one-sided obsession with testing, step and direction. We need it from the first day of the day in the crèche to the last day in school or education. It must be a leadership that unadulteratedly maintains that common problems require common solutions in Europe and globally; that does not fail the UN, but instead wants to build up the capacity to remedy disasters and create the basis for life from which people are fleeing today. It must be a solidarity fight against climate change across countries. We should not protect ourselves from the European Union, but set the direction for cooperation so that it becomes greener, more solidarity and better at solving the common problems. Basically, we need a new leadership for Denmark, which stands by the fact that we are a nation of people who are not alike but who deserve the same rights and opportunities. In short, leaders who hold onto who we are and never sell out of the basic values.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530152751	Thank you very much, sir. Morten Østergaard. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530152758	Oh, my God! I'm gonna... Morten Østergaard, that was quite a speech. In fact, we were sitting on the line and agreed that Mr. Morten Østergaard must have been inspired by President Trump, for President Trump has also made it a habit to make speeches where he then asks people to stand up when he is going to pay tribute or highlight someone. That's gotta be where sir. Morten Østergaard may have found his inspiration. What I came to think of was that sir... Morten Østergaard has looked up over time to the fact that one of the most important things the Radical Left has stood for, if we look at recent times like this, has been the famous 45 relaxations of foreign policy from 2011 to 2015. Sir. Morten Østergaard has called it 45 improvements, and it is almost just to run in an open door when I ask Mr Østergaard. Morten Østergaard, whether he still feels that way in relation to the relaxation of foreign policy, and whether that is the position of the Radical Left ■ that is, when I say open door, it is because it is almost possible to hear in the speech that that is also what the future must bring when the Radical Left again gains greatness and power, namely that similar relaxations are brought into foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530152915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530152916	I wonder if it wasn't a question prepared before the speech. No, it wasn't, it wasn't, but okay, okay, otherwise it's been done earlier today and in other debates maybe too, and that way things are running a little in circles in here, and we're having a good time with it. But out there in reality, people are unfettered. So, basically, I think they are tired of the debate on tight or slack and the number of legislative changes and cake eating, as we understood Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl earlier like is the goal: Never mind what the policy means, now you just have to reach 100 so you can distribute cake because you have made a three-digit number of changes to the alien law. I do not believe that this is the way forward, and I think it divides us more than it brings us together, and therefore my bid is that what I am concerned with is, of course, to get better integration and listen to some of the challenges that are here, get more people into work, get mixed schools. And, of course, it requires action which cannot be resolved with either amendment of the law on foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153021	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153024	No, it is quite the opposite in reality. People are immensely concerned about whether we are talking about austerity or we are talking about relaxing foreign policy. Is there anything that has defined Danish politics and election campaigns etc. For years, that's exactly the question. And at least I could encourage Mr. Morten Østergaard to get a little more out in reality if he really lives in the dream that the Danes out there are completely indifferent to whether we are talking about easing or tightening foreign policy. So whether there are 14,000, 15,000 or 20,000 going to Denmark a year, or 3,000 coming, is of course of enormous importance to what it is for integration that you can do for the people who come here to Denmark. Is Mr. Morten Østergaard didn't agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153104	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153105	But that is a completely different question. It is not a question of the number of changes in the Aliens Act when we count or count down or count to the side. It is a question of whether we have a track record of how many refugees we receive, and that is what we must have. We must have that, but the only way to get it done is to sort out the situation on the Mediterranean in cooperation with the other European countries, by cooperating with the countries and committing us. We know that, over time, it is the flow of refugees to Europe that defines how many refugees are coming, but it was in 2006 that the fewest asylum seekers came to Denmark, so I could ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Should we roll the Aliens Act back to 2006?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153149	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153153	Thank you. This is something I also mentioned earlier in a question to the Danish People's Party. Yesterday, the government came up with a proposal in the field of unemployment benefits, where the government imagines that you should be punished more severely, so that in future the Danes will have to have a harder blow when you quit your job yourself, for example. because you have an unreasonable boss or unfair working conditions or other things. So you have to be quarantined in the benefit system, regardless of whether you may have paid for it for decades, that is. less freedom for the individual to be able to choose it from here. So my question with radicals' history in relation to the benefit issue in mind is actually just: where do radicals stand here? Are you ready to jump on this new attack on the social security of the Danes, or do you think enough is enough, and that now we should no longer go down that road in terms of being able to preserve just the remains of the flexicurity system that we have been proud of?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153256	I'm gonna start where mr. Pelle Dragsted ended by saying that it is absolutely crucial that all people in Denmark have a clear interest in insuring themselves against unemployment and being a member of an unemployment fund, even if they may feel that they are not just about to lose their jobs. Because it gives some rights. It is a good arrangement, it is good that you pay for it, and it must also provide a security that makes you interested in doing so. We are not part of the benefit board because the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the government agreed to introduce an education ceiling as payment for the last agreement made, and perhaps that is why we only know about the proposal in the heading form. But basically, I would like to say that I find it deeply worrying that we are facing a situation in which we are at risk of labour shortages. I think it is important that we get all available resources at work, but I also think it is crucial that people feel that it is worth insuring themselves against unemployment, because it gives some rights, even if you choose a job change.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153400	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153402	I do not think that was a very clear answer, and that is, of course, in order. But this initiative from the government is on the Ministry of Employment's website, where you can read it. Moreover, there are also sensible things to say about this, but the things that relate to the attack on the rights of beneficiaries of benefits, that is to say. In other words, all employees who are members of the rights of an unemployment fund are hard to eat. This means that sanctions, i.e. how long you have to stay out of income, for example. is extended from 3 to 6 weeks if you quit your job yourself. And there is also something with unskilled and skilled workers that needs to be forced to go even further away to work. But could I not get a slightly clearer answer to the question: are radicals prepared for these new attacks on the unemployment benefit system, which will of course make it one less reason to be a member of an unemployment fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153449	Thank you. Then there is the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153453	But that is actually what I think I replied to, subject to the fact that I do not know the government's proposal and therefore have not been invited to discuss it yet, namely that I think it is important that there is a combination of rights and duties, and that it is done in a way in the cashier's system, where everyone has an interest in being a member of an unemployment fund and is also comfortable with their rights in the situation in which they had to choose another job. So I hope that's enough answers for Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted. However, I would like to say that it is also a system based on rights and obligations, including obligation to make available.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153532	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153536	Prior to the 2011 election, which was the latest election that led a red government, the message from the Social Democratic Party and the SF was that here was a Fair Solution and Fair Change, that it was a red government tax policy, neither more nor less, and that there could be no change to a comma. As you know, this was not the case with the intervention of the Radicals, and when the same message now comes from the Social Democrats on immigration policy, namely that it should not be changed, that it should not be relaxed, despite being dependent, there had to be a majority in favour of the Radical Left, then I am a little interested in hearing the Radical Left, whether they have this approach and understanding of the weighting of the Radical Left's mandates, if that is the case. And will the Radical Left accept that social democracy, as part of a social democratic government, is taking foreign policy outside the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153635	Well, that's where I brought my come out of prison card free of charge. It was one I got earlier by Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl when I asked him a question about European policy under a future government. He said, and I quote, 'Now I am not standing here in the Chamber at a graduation debate negotiating the basis of government'. This is done after an election and if the voters give support to it. But I can say, as I have said before, and I would like to repeat today, that we are the masters of the compromise, we think. We are always willing to seek compromises. But that requires listening to each other and bowing to each other, and we will expect that in all areas of government that we must support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153713	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153715	So when the radical MP, Mrs. Zenia Stampe, writes on Twitter: Fair enough that Mette F... it must be Mrs. Mette Frederiksen will base her policy on DF. But then maybe she should ask them if they want to be the support party for her; how is that to be interpreted? What gravity is there in that? What consequence will the Radical Left take of the statements made by Mrs Mette Frederiksen today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153739	No, what lies in that statement is one of the same things that I have said over and over again, namely that if you choose us from and some others to, because you want to base your government on their policy, you have to ask them if they want to bring that government to the world. You can't both choose us from and take us with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153800	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153803	Thank you for that and thank you for a fine speech from the rapporteur. The radical leader, a few days ago, perhaps a week ago, suggested that one third of the Danish agricultural area should be decommissioned and converted to nature. In the Liberal Alliance we would very much like to convert a larger part of the state's territory into free and wild nature, and we would also like to let private pilots decide for themselves how they will run their land. After all, the radical proposal completely outbids the nature policy of all other parties, at least in relation to the number of hectares to be converted to nature. It is tempting to say that it is perhaps almost economically irresponsible, even though it has been a radical virtue in the past to be financially responsible. I can understand that, sir. Morten Østergaard and the Radicals that by 2030 they will spend 1 billion. kr. on this shift. But if you look at one third of the agricultural area, which is 900,000 hectares, then that would amount to 90 billion. kr. instead. Where's that money coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530153915	The aim of the change is not to achieve it by 2030. It is a plan that needs to be implemented over a long period of time. Where I would like to reach out to the Liberal Alliance is actually more in terms of trying to create a modern, progressive, high-tech and sustainable agriculture in Denmark in every sense of economic and environmental terms. That is where we have our eyes on the most vulnerable agricultural land and think that it would be sensible for the environment, for the prospect of clean drinking water, for future generations, but also for those farmers who have those lands, if a scheme were found to convert those lands into nature, either wild nature or more extensive farming, or what we could do to get in the direction of ensuring that it was not the environment that held up and that they were given a higher level of profitability. Because it's well known that these vulnerable soils are not the most thriving shops, nor are they the ones where the value is highest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154016	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154017	It is over a long period of time, says Mr. Morten Østergaard. We can say that if one billion has been set aside. kr. per decade like that. That's how we spend the whole length of our clogs. We're 90 billion. kr. out in a 900-year plan. At least that's wearing the long light, you might say. But has the Radical Left also thought about the consequences and costs for jobs in Denmark and the downstream industry for the Danish food sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154048	Our vision is not based on the fact that less food should be produced in Denmark. On the contrary, the aim is to ensure that the part of agricultural land that can cope with it is cultivated high-tech and in a way that ensures that we are still away being a country that produces food in the highest class and that our export earnings do not fall etc. So that's not the end of it at all. But it's kind of weird that sir. Carsten Bach does not recognise that these ideas originate directly from the work of the Nature and Agriculture Commission. After all, we have discussed this before when we have discussed targeted regulation, and it is really just a continuation of the idea that we say: do not use the agricultural land that is most vulnerable to our drinking water. And of course you have to be compensated to stop it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154131	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154133	Thank you. I simply want to say something about foreign policy. I was so happy when I saw the big radical ad that now no more ditches were to be dug. I have actually felt that the Radicals were some of those who dug the biggest ditches in the foreign debate. Every time you tried to talk seriously about the problems, it was blown up as if you were either breaking human rights or as if you were a bad person. Then I thought that we could finally have a serious debate and, as soon as we entered a serious debate on vulnerable housing areas, the Radicals fell back into the ditch. I would like to ask: what is the problem of setting aside extra money for vulnerable housing areas where we can see that there is higher crime, fewer people who are trained, fewer people who are in jobs and where a large number of people have non-Western origins? Mr. Morten Østergaard is not that it is a signal that there is something that we as a society should take care of when so many people who need extra help gather in so few places?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154242	Well, sir. After all, Jacob Mark, the Radical Left, helped to grant the Landsbygningsfonden an opportunity to allocate 10 billion. kr. to implement holistic plans to make the areas attractive for others to live in. So that question is weird. We would like to allocate money to that. I think sir... Jacob Mark was out calling some of what has been implemented a GDR policy. I do not know whether it qualifies to be such a mediating view or statement. For me, and that is what I was trying to describe in my rapporteur's speech today, the picture is that what you can meet about in here and agree on in here is increasingly moving away from what are the real problems for people living in vulnerable areas. The fact that they lack a job does not mean that there are no initiatives to provide people who are unemployed, a job or education. The fact that we want to see and we agree on mixed schools and mixed colleges, there are no initiatives in relation to that. This leaves people with a strange feeling that on the one hand they are shouting at them, that the places they live are holes in the map of Denmark, and on the other hand they will not take the problems seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154348	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154350	In my optics, it is the rapporteur who helps to help people feel that we are shouting at them. It could also have been said that we know that these initiatives actually exist to help some of the people who come from vulnerable areas. The Radical Left is not part of the Housing Agreement, and after we made the Housing Agreement, the Radicals went with Mr. Morten Østergaard out and said that now the values in Denmark were in free fall because one had a criterion that was over 50 percent. with non-Western ancestry. That's what Mr. Morten Østergaard forgot to tell, was that when the Radicals were in government, they made exactly the same criterion, they were in exactly the same agreement. So what is it that, when the Radicals were in government, they wanted to set aside extra funds for those areas, but now they are suddenly values in free fall and almost anti-democratic?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154431	Well, I really think that Mr. Knox... Jacob Mark has to go back and study the agreements that have been made. The big difference in the part of the agreement that was about defining lists is that the ghetto concept is now reserved only for areas that meet the criterion that a majority of neighbours have a non-western background. The vulnerable housing areas, i.e. those which have been given the opportunity to seek up to 10 billion. kr. in the Landsbygningsfonden for improvement, is a broad circle of residential areas with a large number of criteria, which on long stretches resemble those we had when we ourselves sat in government. However, the SF has made an agreement which reserves the concept of ghetto only to areas that are at risk and where a majority of neighbours have a non-western background, and indeed, I think that is a slip of value.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154519	Then it's mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154521	After that, sir. Morten Østergaard has been passing by a few ghettos, Mr. Morten Østergaard had some revelations, among others. About citizenship and citizenship. Sir. Morten Østergaard was out to suggest that if you pass the primary school's final examination, you must automatically have citizenship. That would mean that the gang leader Shuaib Khan would have been given citizenship he did well in school earlier. Is this the only criterion which the Radical Left demands of young people in order to obtain citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154604	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Naser Khader is here. I met him earlier in the day with a training bag in his hand, where he threatened to go up and train when I had to give a speech. So it's nice to see you in this room. But back to the question. Our proposal is based on a large number of young people, and I am sure that Mr. Naser Khader has also met many of them.I even know that some of them have been past the office because they have also visited me afterwards. And it's about the fact that if you were born and raised in Denmark and never lived anywhere else, I mean like the policy we were pursuing when we were in government last time that, if you do the primary school's final examination, you have to have that citizenship, which is the most natural thing. So says Mr. Naser Khader: Well there is a gang leader who would then have been a Danish citizen. I just think that somehow speaks for itself. This means that they say: All of you, who are not Danish citizens, but are born and raised in Denmark, you cannot get citizenship because there is a gangster who would have got it if it were. It is as if they are all suspected of becoming gang leaders, and isn't that exactly the opposite signal we need, namely that it pays to look after your school and not become a criminal? And that was the criterion behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154715	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154717	Having citizenship in Denmark is not a legal requirement, it is something that a majority in the Folketing gives people who contribute to Denmark, people who meet a lot of requirements, so you can see the difference between those who contribute and want Denmark, and those who do not want Denmark. And that is why there are a lot of demands that need to be met. But the consequence of what the Radical Left is proposing is that all members of Hizb ut-Tahrir can acquire citizenship. Would the Radical Left like to give citizens of caliphate and anti-democratic citizenship, even if they are doing well in terms of education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154755	I've noticed very well that sir. Naser Khader would increasingly like to be allowed to exercise mental control over what people think is a condition for citizenship. What I am talking about are young people who have never tried to live anywhere other than in Denmark, who are born and raised here, but who are constantly being associated in the political debate primarily with the country from which their parents or perhaps their grandparents come and who cannot go to camp schools, or whatever they want, freely in the world like all other children, and who are constantly reminded of: It may be that you have never lived anywhere else, but really belong to you do not. And my belief is that if we were to pursue the policy we are proposing, fewer of them would end up as caliphate supporters, and that is part of the purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154842	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154845	Thank you very much. In 2010, Helle Thorning-Schmidt said and I am sure that Mr. Morten Østergaard remembers that if she came to power, she could not dream of moving towards a more lenient foreign policy, and that if the Social Democracy came to power, it would not be the Radicals who had to determine the foreign policy. What happened next, Mr. Morten Østergaard better than I do. It turned into 45 reliefs, as Mr. Morten Østergaard has proudly reported. Now we hear Mette Frederiksen say: it should not be the Radicals, it should not be the other red parties that decide the immigration policy, I will continue a strict policy on foreigners. This is an echo of Helle Thorning-Schmidt in 2010. What does Mr. Morten Østergaard, even though the credibility of the Social Democracy, when you say A, does B? And would Mr. Morten Østergaard trusts what Mette Frederiksen says in the light of what Helle Thorning-Schmidt said?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530154947	I always listen to what Mrs Mette Frederiksen says, and I always think that she means what she says. And apparently Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt did the same at the time. But again, what concerns me is the real problems. We could, of course, take up the problems of foreign labour, which I predict will go to the next elections. After all, you have been talked about in the 45 reductions, in other words the changes we made to create better access for foreign workers under the previous government. And that's why it is, sir. Marcus Knuth, that so many get tired of that discussion, I think 45 relaxations during the last government and 75 tightenings during the next one. And when it reaches 100 Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl cake. Shouldn't we solve some problems instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155032	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155034	But now it was neither foreign labour nor the number of tightenings or relaxations I asked about. That was the credibility of the Social Democratic Party and I hope that we can stick to that issue. Social democracy said in 2010: we are going to elections on a tight immigration policy, leaving the Radicals outside. And it was then a relaxed foreign policy led by the Radicals. What do you think, sir? Morten Østergaard that an ordinary Dane thinks when he hears Mette Frederiksen say exactly the same thing Helle Thorning-Schmidt said in 2010?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155108	Well, I am fascinated by that debate, and I also remember that during the last European Parliament elections there was an advertisement from the Left which ever ruled out border controls. And we've had that for some time now. Is this the political debate we can sort of swing up to? I think it is about what problems need to be resolved. There are integration problems. Nor do I think that we are really better prepared for the next refugee crisis than we were at the last one, because we are lulling ourselves asleep here at home without recognising that it requires agreements with all other countries. And no, the SRSF government's policy on foreigners was not dictated by the Radical Left; it was an expression of a compromise which can be found again if there is a will to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155150	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155152	Well, then, I'd actually like to take sir. Morten Østergaard a little at the word and talk about reality and the real problems. Sir. Morten Østergaard has been out in fact a little less time than I myself have been, until now, I have been there full time, and Mr. Morten Østergaard has been there, not on borrowed time, but on a little part-time out in the real reality. So let's finally discuss these real problems that are out there. When Mr. Morten Østergaard now, and that's to take Mr Østergaard. Mr. Morten Østergaard, at his word, in relation to what he mentioned in a previous speech, is going to debate with Mrs. Mette Frederiksen about a future government basis, Mr. Morten Østergaard then give an idea of what will be, let's just say the two main political points, as Mr. Morten Østergaard wants to take part in the negotiations with Mrs Mette Frederiksen in the field of foreigners? Or if I had to put it a little more squarely: what are these relaxations, sir? Morten Østergaard could imagine discussing with Mrs Mette Frederiksen? What do you want, sir? Morten Østergaard here demand?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155302	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155305	I'm gonna take it out of prison for free, which I got from mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, forward again, for I quote Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from earlier times: I am not now in the Parliamentary Chamber debating the basis of government; that is what you do after a choice, and only if the voters give support to it. What I am going to go to the polls and I think I made that clear in the speech here is that one can lead Denmark in a different way from what we see when both the Left and the Social Democrats reach out to the Danish People's Party's path on an ever-increasing scale, and this is not just a question of foreign policy. It's much wider than that. But I would like to stress that one can call it a tightening or a relaxation, I do not care, just the schools get mixed up, just some more people get into work, and just as long as we get some binding agreements with other countries, so that next time, there is a refugee crisis, we get our share of responsibility, not all the other parts of responsibility, and we do not try to wipe it off on other countries either, but that we are better off. Well, then, sir. Martin Geertsen and the Left call it what they want, and count it the way they want, and celebrate it the way they want, as long as it works out in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155404	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155406	Yeah, but I was kind of trying to play on Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard's court, about Mr. Morten Østergaard will. I therefore agree with the idea that the negotiation of government bases and such things should be done after an election. But it is fair enough that the voters are given some kind of suggestion as to what is the radical position, in addition to the fact that we all need to be better at talking to each other and negotiating a little wider and that sort of thing. So I would just like to ask: what is the position of the Radical Left in political terms when it comes to meeting Mrs Mette Frederiksen in a tower or wherever it may be?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155442	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155443	Yes, we have in the past presented a proposal as to what we think should be done to deal with the next refugee crisis better and more controlled than the last one. This spring we have presented an integration issue with a wide range of things, including: a proposal for a complete reform of the way in which cash assistance for the long-term unemployed is handled, and that is what we are coming up with. But yes, we think that Denmark should take responsibility for its part of the world's refugees and resume quotas. They were fine enough for the Fogh governments, and they were fine enough for the Thorning governments. Do you not think they will be fine enough for the next government to take just one example?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155519	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155521	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard for the speech. I could understand that, sir. Morten Østergaard's answer to Mr. Jacob Mark's question is that there are some parts of the so-called agreement on parallel societies against which the Radicals are opposed. I have also read out that the Radicals and Mr. Morten Østergaard is opposed to forcing children into crèches. We are also in the Enhedslisten, which is why I am a little surprised that Mr. Morten Østergaard and the Radicals are helping to finance the agreement. I really would like that, sir. Morten Østergaard wanted to explain.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155558	First of all, the main point of the agreement we are in, which concerns the economy, is that we will now be able to invest 10 billion in the coming years. kr. from the Landsbygningsfonden in general plans in the exposed residential areas. This is what will transform areas such as Gellerup, Vollsmose and Mjølnerparken into places that look quite different and that hopefully are attractive for far more than is the case today. This has been important to us and we have been in all housing contracts for the past many years for the same reason. Then it is true that there was also something about preventing it from being the same place that money was made for the initiatives that were now to be implemented, namely in the Landsbygningsfonden via the grant support, it is such a little technical, and there it was that we said 'because we would also like to spend money on integration' that we would like to contribute to taking money from, for example, unspent pools in the field of employment. Some of the money has then been spent in ways that we do not like. That is what life is like when you cannot find a majority, but that certainly means that some money has been released that can be spent on integration if we get a different majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155704	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155706	Should I then understand that the Radical Left somehow bought something they didn't really know what was? Because that is not just the part of what is about day-to-day offers, as Mr. Morten Østergaard and the Radical Left have a criticism of, as we also have in the Enhedslisten, but it is also the part that concerns housing and all sorts of other things. In fact, the financing agreement states that the parties to the agreement must seek the support of the community of rates for financing the introduction of mandatory daily offers. So what I'm really asking for is that Mr. Morten Østergaard makes a clear position on: Should we spend money on this, or should we not spend money on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155742	It is true that the Radical Left has a long tradition that we are willing to help increase the room for manoeuvre, so that we can invest in things that we think are important • everything from education to the green transition • and sometimes, as for example. With the latest few financial laws, there are, of course, some who prioritise in a way that we think is unfortunate, although we have actually helped to create the room for manoeuvre. In relation to the concrete here, we think that this is a wrong way of spending money and we look forward to the negotiations on the rate pool. Because, as always, we have to agree, not because someone has a veto, but because we have to agree around the table, and this is a table where Enhedslisten is not sitting. So that fight must then be fought from the outside by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155828	Then it's mr. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155830	Thank you. If we were to go and have a social democratic minority government after the next elections, I would like to hear Mr. Morten Østergaard, whether the Radical Left will be a parliamentary basis, even though the Social Democracy will continue the couple race with DF today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155858	I really think I have answered that very clearly. What we want and what I have tried to draw up today is that I believe the Danes deserve a choice. And when it comes to a large number of crucial points today, I think there are many who find it difficult to see the difference. So yes, we want to be a parliamentary basis and help bring a government to power and take part in intergovernmental cooperation if we can agree that it is not just a new government and a new prime minister, but also a new policy. That is what will be the starting point, and it is not just a question of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155933	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155935	Then I will turn it around with the problems that are also over in the red block: could it be imagined that after the next elections radicals will go in and back up a bourgeois government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530155948	We have a government to which we are in opposition, which in one and all is based on the Danish People's Party, so I would say that we have always had a tradition of working with those who want to. But there is a reason why we are in opposition, and that is why we think we need a new political direction for Denmark. If that idea should come into the Left and Conservatives, then it's all about telling them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160013	Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160016	Following on directly from the last question: now I listened to the rapporteur's speech and also in the answers that there were like two Prime Minister's candidates. One is the current one, and the other is she who wants to be, but that there was a need for a new leadership and, moreover, there was not so much good to say about either the current Prime Minister or her who would like to be. Can it be interpreted as meaning that there is a third candidate for Prime Minister, possibly the Radical rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160045	No, that should not be interpreted. What we have to interpret is that we are going to vote not only for a new government and for a new Prime Minister, but also for a new policy, and that we are concerned that what the Danes are meeting with is increasingly something that is similar and reflected in what the Danish People's Party wants. And that is what we think the Danes deserve a choice between, and then we have to see where the votes fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160119	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160121	The latter is always a good starting point. But there is a need for a new leadership, one must understand, and of two evils the Radicals then choose Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Then I think it would be fair to ask: when you choose Mrs Mette Frederiksen, what is it that you expect from Mrs Mette Frederiksen when you can now put your votes in her scales as Prime Minister? Now we have talked a lot about the problem of foreigners. There must, however, be just one point to which Mr. Morten Østergaard says that this is the most important point on the question of foreigners, where he will say to Mrs Mette Frederiksen: If we are to put our lot in your scales as Prime Minister of the two evils we can now choose from, this is the point we will go to the negotiating table with as our most important demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160159	Yes, I could quote Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl once more, but it's almost too bad. Therefore, instead of just saying quite clearly that what I want with what I said today, and what I am going to say in the future, is that I want to ensure that the Danes can see that there is a choice between directions. Although they are increasingly finding it difficult to distinguish between the Left and the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party, there is a choice to make and there is an opportunity. It just takes you to move after it, and then we'll see where it goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160232	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160234	Thank you. When the rapporteur says that the rapporteur has been in the last many housing contracts for quite many years, I wonder whether the rapporteur also thinks that it is going fantastic. The rapporteur and I both come from Aarhus and both know about the Gellerup area and have both followed the process, which has in fact been a model for the housing agreement that has also been concluded now. I think it is important to emphasise that it is not people who are the problem, but that it is perhaps in fact a structural problem that we are thinking about right now. I wonder whether the rapporteur himself would like to move to Gellerup, as Gellerup operates today, with family and children, or whether the rapporteur would prefer one of the other apartments up in Trøjborg, which is also cheaper, but a little older, by the way. I am thinking that precisely the area of Gellerup needs resourceful citizens. We just have the problem that, as the social policy effort succeeds, people are moving out of there again. So how to create an attractive area where people actually want to live, including the rapporteur, I too. That is, in fact, the challenge that we are facing, and it therefore requires correct solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160359	I think this really is a very good question, which I am extremely happy to have, because that is exactly what it does; it requires correct solutions. The overall plan for the Gellerup area seems to me to be such a real solution and which, like others, can get money from the Landsbygningsfond to be implemented. After all, there should not be fewer people living in Gellerup when we have finished implementing the overall plan, I believe that there will actually be much more, but it will be in mixed housing: owner-occupied housing, cooperative housing and general housing. I think that is the lesson that everyone has taught, that it was a mistake, in terms of housing policy, to make those very large concentrations of general housing in the same place instead of making the diversity that could make it interesting for people like me who would like to live in, for example. It's a townhouse I own. That is why I believe that we are well on the way. What is against me, and what I can feel affects both housing organizations and residents, is when the area is to be declared ghetto at the same time, because a majority of residents have a non-western background. In fact, I am quite sure that this does not seem appropriate in terms of getting more people to move to the area, especially when you make rules that apply only to those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160513	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160515	However, the housing agreement is precisely about resolving the problems that the rapporteur then agrees with must be resolved. And then it is true that the headline in the folk has become ghetto. I would also have liked to have had a different expression, but I am just not so concerned about the title, I am concerned about the content. However, I think that the rapporteur is sticking people in the eye if it is the case that the rapporteur continues to maintain that it is simply a matter of non-Western background, since it is actually the case that you are not being proclaimed to live in a ghetto area simply because you have a non-western background. Other criteria must also be applied, such as: No education, no work, low income or much crime. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160559	These are two agreements. This is one that we are involved in, which is about the economy of the Landsbygningsfonden, and which can make the overall plans come true, and it is another that we are not involved in, because we think it has gone from evil to worse. I think we have had a common criticism of the use of that ghetto concept over all the years, but it has been done anyway, where a number of criteria had to be met in order to get on the list, which then meant that there were some special conditions, including access to certain special resources. Now it works in this way that there are the exposed residential areas in the broad sense, which are similar to the definition we had in the past, and then there is a list which is only ghettos, and to get on that list, the residential area must be exposed, where a majority of residents have a non-western background. That is the condition. A residential area cannot become a ghetto unless a majority of residents have a non-western background.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160658	Thank you. Then I think we should give our colleague in South Jutland a chance to speak, Mr President. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160707	Thank you. On previous occasions, the Radicals have advocated that the introduction of the benefits of integration was a mistake. Where do the Radicals stand today? In his excellent speech, the rapporteur made it clear that he had become wiser, and we have seen that too. Study tours in ghettos and other things have been a good input by getting some input from the real world outside. My question to Mr. Morten Østergaard is: Are you still away from the integration service? And if so, how much is it going to be raised so that it is in line with radical values?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160801	The proposal for adoption that we have presented today says, among other things, that we believe that discrimination in the system of benefits should be stopped. I always think that we should discuss how to set up our cash assistance system so that, on the one hand, it ensures a strong social safety net and good opportunities and, on the other hand, it also ensures that there is a real incentive to improve and look for work. What I do not like, and it is a principle, is that people in the same situation are not treated equally. There are no different prices in the supermarket depending on how long you have been in Denmark. You do not get a discount on your apartment or anything else, and that is why I think that the basis, the minimum subsistence, must be the same regardless of who you are. That is why what we have proposed instead, and which I am surprised the government has not grasped, since this issue has now been dealt with, is, of course, the effort. As I also said in the speech today, the expectation, if you are on cash aid in Denmark, is that you should be doing something, and that is why we say that no one should be able to be on cash aid for more than 3 years in Denmark, then something else has to happen, otherwise it will happen year after year. If you do not have the primary school's final examination, which is the case for many cash aid recipients in the vulnerable residential areas, you could be activated with it every day, every week, all year round, and that is where I think we should put in, rather than hit people on the wallet.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160922	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530160926	Thank you for the rapporteur's kind attempt to respond without giving me and others a sense of what it is about. But about differentiating the level of benefit, it is probably slightly in line with what you did when you introduced youth benefits for everyone at a certain age, but when you say that there is suddenly a difference between whether you have one year or the other, even if you are born straight after each other. Let it go. Thinks sir. Mr Morten Østergaard, that increasing or abolishing the benefits of integration, that is to say, increasing the dependency of those who come to the country, will hamper or promote the influx of refugees into the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161022	So, thank you. We came all the way around there. Youth benefits apply to all young people, regardless of how long they have been here, and that is why, in my view, they are not discriminatory. What makes a difference, I think, for people to get started is if they meet with expectations of it and that we let right and duty go together, and we have done that too little. If the integration benefit was the solution, the start-up aid should have solved all the problems we have discussed for skinlessness today, in the years it had been there. Does it matter what kind of welfare society you come to? Yeah, I'm sure it does. Therefore, it is probably wise to commit ourselves with other countries on how to distribute refugees so that it is not determined by chance or rumors of what welfare systems there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161103	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161108	Thank you. I asked Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who is a candidate for Prime Minister, earlier this day whether the Radical Left will have any influence on foreign policy if Mrs Mette Frederiksen were to form a government, and I almost got the impression that the Radical Left should not count on it. That's why I'm going to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard, whether you agree to point to a Prime Minister from the Social Democratic Party, so that you cannot influence such an important area as the policy of foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161146	I have sat and smiled a little for myself down here on the chair, because I think there are so many who have given evidence that this is probably not the case. There is almost no limit to how much influence we will have and how much influence we had on what I saw as a compromise between the Social Democracy, the SF and the Radical Left at the time when the last government was formed. We must understand this has almost led to the greatest humanitarian disaster since the Second World War, and hence the large refugee quotas we have seen since then. This is going to be a silly way of discussing, and frankly I think we would be better off if we discussed which policy can be pursued, which brings us to a better place and where we do not have to give up our fundamental values. If we commit ourselves to other countries, it is not a question of wiping out on our neighbours the responsibility for the refugees who come to Europe, but also of not being responsible for more than is our responsibility. We could do that if we committed ourselves to other countries. Then we knew how many refugees were coming. I have no wish for many refugees to come to Denmark. I have a wish that the situation is under control and that we cooperate with other countries on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161247	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161250	I certainly did not hear an answer to the question I asked. Will the Radical Left be satisfied with a government which cannot be influenced in the area of foreign policy, where I understand that there are wise nuances • can we safely call it between the Radical Left and the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161314	As I have now replied over and over again and also said in my speech, what we aim to do is to give the Danes the choice they deserve, that the problems of refugees and integration can be resolved without giving up the values, and that is what we will meet the Danes with in the elections that will come before we have a final debate again. We will then, of course, seek the compromises that will be needed so that we can have another government that not only has a new Prime Minister, but also a new direction, also a new political direction for Denmark, where we are actually getting closer to providing people with the certainty that everything from refugees to integration is under control. And yes, we will have an influence on that, just as we will have an influence on all other policy areas. That goes without saying, and I think that is the way it is in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161358	If Mrs Karina Adsbøl is quick and smart, she can come up with the last question. She always is).
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161404	Thank you. I'll make it quick. The rapporteur says that the Danes deserve an election. I can promise the rapporteur that there will be some time too, so that you can take it easy. Then the rapporteur also says that too many restrictions on foreigners have been implemented, and that leads me to ask a question. Because it is a little difficult to find out what the rapporteur thinks in his speech. Does the rapporteur recognise that we have parallel societies today? Does the rapporteur also recognise that there are many who must flee from negative social control? Today we have two safehouses in which we protect minority young people who are just fleeing honour conflicts, and many of them are being sent on reeducation trips. We have also seen this in a series of television broadcasts, and we have also seen the mosques behind the veil. So when the rapporteur stands and says all these things from the platform and sits and cheats the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Left for everything they have done in the field of foreigners, what do the Radicals want?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161509	There is not one of the problems mentioned here by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, of which I do not recognise the existence. What is just my impression, after talking to many of those who live with the consequences of those problems, is that they do not feel that it is the Danish People's Party that is fighting their cause. They don't. One might also ask oneself: if it was the medicine with ongoing changes to the law on foreigners that was needed, why are the problems not resolved yet? It has been Danish People's Party's only, or at least the most important, mark since 2001. It has been possible to achieve virtually what you want, and it has appeared to every financial law except for the few years when there was a social democratic government. So have you slept per hour, or has the Danish People's Party overlooked the problems? What happened? I think the problem is that we are not concerned about solving the problems of those people, because then it was some other thing that needed to be done, and then we should come to them and try to listen to them. That is what I have done, and it has led to some of the proposals I have presented today on, among others. mixed schools, mixed day-care institutions and mixed high schools... something that the Danish People's Party doesn't want to touch at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161619	No, the Danish People's Party has not slept per hour, certainly not, and I could also hear that from the rapporteur's speech. For the rapporteur's speech was very depressive, and it sounded as if the rapporteur was very sad about how much the Danish People's Party has had to say in relation to the restrictions on foreigners. So we certainly haven't slept in class. But it's just a little unclear when the Radicals want something else. After all, we want border controls, and the Radicals do not want that. I'm sure they want it not to be there. So it's kind of hard to figure out what the Radicals want. The rapporteur also said that the Radicals do not have a great desire for many refugees to come to Denmark either. But the Radicals are talking about a lot of things from the platform, among others. That one should have a choice in relation to the PM post. So is it because the radical rapporteur himself wants the Prime Minister's office?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161712-2	No, that's not what this is about. What this is all about is precisely what I was talking about, namely the problems that remain unresolved and that neither border controls nor all the other things that have characterised the policy to which the Danish People's Party has voted over two decades have been able to resolve. We understand that after two decades we still have an agreement that Denmark has become more and more divided. The Danish People's Party has not been able to do anything about this in the 12-14 of the last 16 years of power. My point is, there's got to be something else and more than just those perpetual changes in alien law. It does not solve the problems of social control, it does not provide mixed housing areas or schools and institutions, and that is why we need something else and perhaps some others too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161803	Thank you very much, sir. Morten Østergaard for the effort. Welcome to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530161814	SF is Denmark's green party. This has been the case for a long time, but recently I woke up to a challenge: the prospect of competition from completely unexpected edge. Now the Left was the green ones. Wow, I was thinking. After halving the funds for energy research, trying to sabotage the development of sea winds, introducing an environmentally damaging agricultural package, yes, then the Left had become green. But that's great news, and as a socialist, I don't mind sharing greenness. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister had allowed himself to be inspired more by comic Ali than by bliss, sir. Svend Auken or Mr. Steen Gade. He might as well have said that the moon was made of green cheese. For with the Green Left in the lead, the government presented a flux of energy, setting up to spend far more money on lowering taxes and tariffs than on developing renewable energy and continuing efforts to save energy. There is no guarantee that we will achieve the government's own modest target of 50%. renewable energy by 2030, when the money is prioritised in this way. More comical Ali here than Green Left, unfortunately. When a mandate was to be given to how much renewable energy the government was to work for in the EU, the result was similarly discouraging, i.e. just 27 per cent, while Sweden and a number of other countries work for 34-35 per cent. The latter is actually socio-economically sensible, good for the climate and very good for the Danish business community. On festive occasions, the Prime Minister can otherwise entertain business and others with the importance of pushing internationally. But where it really snows where it could really make a difference, nothing happens. So we can do much better in Denmark, and we can do so for the money the government has already put into the energy project. It is a question of using them correctly and wisely, and I am sure we can. And we must have far better solutions, they are ready for use, and it is simply a question of political will whether you are genuinely green, because the money is there. Then it could be that the government had turned green in other areas, because another big green challenge is how we ensure more nature in Denmark. Many parties play out with green suggestions. SF has made a nature play with the Social Democracy, and both the Radicals, the Alternative and Enhedslisten have strong nature play. I am delighted that there are so many of us about the offer. But the government is lagging behind. In fact, the government will reduce the special protection areas, Natura 2000 areas, by as much as 23,000 hectares, although Denmark is already the country in Europe that has the smallest share of those areas. I do not expect the new Minister for the Environment and Food to be able and welcome to him today to promise that Denmark must, of course, maintain the protection of the vulnerable natural areas. But that could be a good way of putting action behind the Minister's words about being more environment-than food minister. I really hope that the Minister for the Environment and Food has not just chosen a role as a comic Ali's little brother. So no, the Left has not really become a green party, and that is actually a great shame, because we need more green visions than before, green hopes. You still find that only to the left of the middle in earnest. We need a new green course and a more socially responsible policy. And yes, I don't expect the Left to change their logo into a red color. The poverty benefits that the Left Government reinstated after the government in which the SF had been involved had them abolished mean about doubling the number of poor children in Denmark. Child poverty is plainly a sin for children and, worse still, it hurts them for the rest of their lives. That is why it is absolutely crucial for the SF that we abolish the ceiling on cash aid, which creates a lot of poverty and very, very few jobs. At all events, we want to give all children a good start in life. These are more visits from the midwife and healthcare professionals, so that the problem is caught right from the start. It is a question of better standards in the nursery and kindergarten, so that teachers have better time for children, not least to help those children who have some kind of social problem. All this would have a real impact on our common public economy. Here there are great opportunities for really increasing the supply of labour and employment, but not least by giving many a good life, not a worse one. There are also positive consequences of strengthened action on the working environment, vocational training for more people, free psychological assistance and, above all, better tax control. These are the famous dynamic effects, where the Ministry of Finance still chews on the statement that SF forced them to do last year, very reluctantly enough, but they were forced to promise it. For me, it's just about getting started. It is expensive when we do not invest in people and welfare. But, of course, welfare is not just a matter of what is worthwhile. It is also part of a good life, part of it in many ways good societies that we have. That is why we must also ensure prosperity and good life, even where it costs, simply because it is solidarity, fair and good. This applies to the socially disadvantaged, to the sick and, above all, to the elderly. Until 2025 I will not reveal any secrets, because I know that we all know that there will be 150,000 more older people over 65 years of age. It is good that we live longer, and many will be able to take care of themselves, but others will need more help. We must ensure that they receive proper home care and good nursing homes, and it is not free. Therefore, SF has proposed that the municipalities should be provided with additional money as the number of older people in the municipalities increases, and we hope to be able to gather broad support for this in the Folketing. The second problem is that the starting point is just too scraped. Too many older people experience that new faces are constantly coming into their homes. This is due to pressured municipal budgets. SF wants money to be set aside for all municipalities to develop what is called permanent teams in the care of the elderly, so you know who comes through the door. From the government, we hear other tones. The great inequality in wealth among Danes must be enhanced by abolishing the inheritance tax. Berlingske runs campaigns and calls inheritance tax a penalty. Excuse me, but it's pathetic. Taxes are not penalties. These are necessary contributions to finance our common welfare. You might think they're too big or too small, but punishment isn't. The inheritance tax is such a contribution. It contributes about 4 billion. kr. a year, and that corresponds to 10,000 extra home helpers. Is that a reasonable contribution? Yeah, I think so. Consider two people: Lucky and Not. Lucky might inherit $5 million. kr., Not inherits nothing. The 5 million. kr. is about 20 years of income. Is it not reasonable, then, that Lucky contributes a little extra to our common welfare? From the present settlement fee, the contribution is about DKK 700,000. So there's 4.3 million. kr. Back up. Maybe that's 17 years of revenue. Is it unreasonable and unfair for Lucky to contribute a little to the common fund? No, I do not think so, and especially not because those who inherit large sums are very often those who are wealthy in advance. It is clear that if you still want to distribute a few billion kroner extra in tax cuts every year, then there is not enough money for increased welfare. In fact, this is what the government admits when it envisages growth in welfare expenditure of only approx. 0,3% a year. It is less than half what is needed if we are to provide the same service to our children and the elderly. It looks as if there is a majority in the Folketing that believes that they 0.3 per cent. is a little too little, but things must be linked financially. So we're going to choose between welfare and more tax cuts. It's easy. That choice is easy for SF. There is also a desire for more money for tax relief, which causes the government to propose removing the State's contribution to rent subsidies in the general sector. Fortunately, that was thwarted. We ended up with a large number of initiatives which I think make good sense. I refuse to close my eyes to the problems of a large number of residential areas, problems associated with unemployment, social problems, a failed housing policy, poor language skills and poor education, but also ethnicity. Can that be said? Yeah, you can. Not in the form of general, prejudiced, hateful attacks on all those who have a family background in a non-Western country, but in recognition of the fact that there are still too many places where there are unacceptable social control and violence and women's oppression. I'm not gonna stand for that. That's where we're supposed to stand on the side of the oppressed. Let me conclude by stating that I am actually optimistic, at least in the sense that I believe that the problems can be solved, both in terms of climate and environment, in terms of welfare and in terms of better integration. The Danish economy is strong, and there is money for both the green and the red if we want to. For me, there's plenty of hope. It suits me well, because as I said, SF is Denmark's green party, and the color of hope is green.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530162914	Thank you. Then we move on to the questions, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530162920	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. It is always nice to be optimistic about such a May day of sunshine and everything, and I would also like to congratulate the dress, because there has been quite a race here lately, a dispute about being greenest, and I can see that the Minister for Finance has put on a green tie, and the rapporteur from the Left has a lot of green on it too, but Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr strikes them completely with a green whole suit. If someone else had done the same thinking, perhaps it is very good that it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr who is sticking to it. But when we're at that green thing, isn't that what I'd like to hear from SF's optimistic outlook on life: Isn't the future renewable energy using wind turbines at sea? In other words, should we not now have the perspective that this is where the electricity of the future should be produced and not know, as has been done so far, to stress people with large wind turbines in their backyard? We hear a lot of sad stories about how you feel very annoyed by these big wind turbines, and if the perspective is that we can actually get the renewable energy, but get it from wind turbines out at sea, isn't that where we have to bet in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163047	As I said, I'm a socialist, so I don't mind sharing with others, but dressing green isn't enough to be green. But Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is of course welcome to dress a green suit, if that means that we can make an energy agreement that ensures great ambitions for sea winds there I fully agree with the Danish People's Party. And it is also the case that we can already see that there are zero bids on offshore winds, which means that it is most likely that it will become a good business for the Danish state to create offshore wind farms. Then there is the question of the sun and the wind, and there I would say that I am not deaf to the many people who think that it is challenging with a windmill in their backyard, but I still believe that we need to develop by landwind. I think that what we can have in mind is to use some of the places that are not directly adjacent to the residential area it can be along motorways, and in fact it can also be in some of the corridors we have put around, so that we think a bit intelligently when we expand by landwind. However, it is also crucial here that we involve the municipalities so that they can think about the land in their local plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163159	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163200	Thank you. So, compared to the corridor and this kind of thing, I just understood that compared to wind turbines that were previously perhaps 50 m and which are now 150 m, SF is now talking about wind turbines of up to 250 m, which must be allowed to stand on land • 250 m tall mills. And then you talk about corridors and highways. So, in my pastorat, there is a motorway where ten mills have now come, which is 150 metres high, and I can promise Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that those people are not myself in my neighborhood who must live with the gene from the mills in their gardens, into their living rooms, etc., think that those mills are ample high and they have no reason to think that the mills are on a motorway and that they do not bother them, because they do. Is it not time for us to take the step and say: renewable energy yes, please, wind power yes, please? The future is offshore out at sea with these very, very high wind turbines and so to have a huge perspective on it, great visions for it, but to free people from the nuisance it is when you put these big wind turbines on land.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163306	It is vital if we are to achieve our goal of being fossil-free by 2050, that we also invest in land winds. The interesting thing about land winds is that this is the prerequisite for further development at sea, because that is where the wind turbine industry is being developed. I have to say that if we did not have windmills, I think we would see an increase in renewable energy, which I think would be a pity, because we have to make sure that it is totally green. Because this has to go hand in hand. In addition to developing renewable energy, we must also ensure that the Danes deliver energy savings in order to achieve our objectives. If we do not expand renewable energy massively enough, we will have to deliver even more on energy savings, and then we will certainly not be able to do what the government is proposing to do to lower the electricity tax, because then we will not have enough green electricity to deliver if we also want to secure climate accounting.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163358	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163358-2	Thanks for the speech. It is often the case that when you feel that you have a patent for something in this case the green one is competition scary, and I do not know if that is what has hit Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr since she spends so much of her speaking time laying out the policy of the Left instead of telling about what SF wants. But enough about it. What I really want to know about is distribution policy. I just need to hear the SF's rapporteur in concrete terms: will the SF make demands on a possible future S-led government to abolish the cash benefits ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163441	SF is always up for competition on the green, I would really be happy if all of you exceeded us, because then Denmark would be a green country, then we would be a pioneer country again, and then we would be a great power, I think, as another party here in the Folketing says. I'm only up for that. Actually, I'm a little into this competition thing, so come on! Around the issue of making demands on a future social democratic government, there should be no doubt that the SF wants the ceiling on cash benefits abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163514	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163515	That was a very clear answer, and I would like to commend the rapporteur for that. That is probably the most clear answer we have received from that platform today. So many, many thanks for that. What about when we get to the integration service? Is that something SF wants done away with? And is that something the SF will demand to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163536	SF believes that all the poverty benefits have a very, very sad element in them that it makes people poor. It doesn't get people to work. That is why we are concerned that people have a decent performance and something they can make a living on. So we really wanted us to look through all the benefits and make sure that people had a decent living basis. However, our demand is what it has been all along, and I have said this very clearly: the ceiling on cash aid must be removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163601	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163602	SF has, of course, helped to conclude a number of agreements on the so-called parallel societies. One of them is the removal of 11 000 ordinary family homes, while at the same time banning people with the very lowest benefits, cash benefits, integration benefits, educational assistance, etc. That's what you might be wondering. After all, these are the very low-cost family homes in which these people can afford to live, and one has to ask quite openly: I mean, where do these people really live if they are not to live there and if the homes are removed and they are not allowed to move in anyway? Where are these people gonna live? I think, then, that a left-wing party which believes that social problems in residential areas should be solved by banning entry and by removing cheap housing must give rise to surprise.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163711	Firstly, we say very clearly that this is a structural problem we have created here. We simply have to solve it. I don't think it's okay that we in Denmark say: Well, but the poor have to take care of themselves; we put them out in some areas, they just have to live for themselves. We really believe that the best thing for Denmark and for the people who are already socially at risk is that we live together, that we live together, that we meet in a common day care institution, that we meet in primary school, and we only do that if we live together. That is our reason to enter into these negotiations at all, namely to ensure coherence in Denmark. I think that should actually be the task of every socialist. When we look at this quite specifically, I think a little bit about Mr. Henning Hyllested knows about Aarhus. For it will be the case that in the future a cash aid recipient will not be referred to the Gellerup Park, that is quite right, but perhaps will be referred to Trøjborg, where the housing is better, but where there is also a more mixed housing stock. Don't we have an interest in that? Of course we do. We do not think that it is only those who are socially at risk that should raise the social problems. We believe that some of the people in this country who are wealthy should also be involved in lifting them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163826	Now the housing companies have pointed out that they cannot solve the problem. They don't have the cheap housing these people can afford to pay. So what we are doing is throwing the monkey over to the municipalities, which, moreover, express the same thing, namely that they do not have those homes. As far as many of our residential areas are concerned, I would like to ask: is it even possible to place the people we are talking about here, in other words the most vulnerable people? I find it strange that a socialist party is looking out for a target group of the very weakest people in this country, the most vulnerable people from the most vulnerable residential areas in which they live, and is throwing themselves at them and saying: "You must not move in there, and we will also remove the cheap housing that you can afford to live in. And then you rely on the municipalities to solve this, even if the municipalities and housing companies say that they cannot solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530163914-2	I was born and raised in social housing. I was really lucky, you might say, because I lived in Vallensbæk in a red brick building where people from all sorts of mixed social layers lived. We met in primary school, and it made me have some role models that were important to look up to. That's what Mr. Henning Hyllested talks about is something about believing that these people are special people. Yes, I was one of them, and I didn't want to be isolated. I didn't want to be so away from the other-like, so hidden away as we experience people being when they're out in the socially vulnerable areas. There we say very clearly that we want them to live elsewhere. We want to help build homes elsewhere, and part of the housing agreement is also very clear that the money we are going to earn by selling housing from, we are using to break down some of the homes and to build new general housing. I am aware that this is going to be a challenge for some municipalities, and I expect that when the KL agreement is negotiated, they will demand that additional funds be available.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164022	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164023	Thank you. All these many tax dollars, which SF would like to have for redistribution, must come from somewhere, and that place is private business. Therefore, SF needs growth in the private sector. But it is the case that we see a sharp increase in labour shortages: 25%. of construction companies have experienced production restrictions due to labour shortages, and 40%. Danish industry's member companies have experienced having to give up finding a qualified employee. Nevertheless, S and SF, together with DF, have increased the amount limit in the amount scheme and thus made it more difficult for reasonably paid foreigners to work and pay taxes in Denmark. Does the SF not see a need for employers to have access to the workforce they need and what initiatives will the SF initiate for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164123	Yes, there is no doubt that industry needs skilled labour, and that is why I think it is grotesque that the government has chosen to save on vocational training. Because if there is something we need, it is 1) skilled labour that young people are given the opportunity to become skilled, and 2) that we have unskilled people made skilled so that they can manage on the labour market of the future, and so that the industry actually has skilled labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164147	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164147-2	Well, there is no doubt that education is important, we fully agree on that, but it absolutely cannot solve the problem alone, so how about getting some tax reforms, some labour market reforms and some foreign labour? Could these be initiatives that the SF could endorse?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164207	Firstly, I find it interesting that the Liberal Alliance in this way almost neglects that education is important: well, it is important, but... my point is that it will be crucial that we turn unskilled into skilled workers. We have 60,000-70,000 unskilled people who will be out of work by 2020. Why not upgrade them to skilled workers? Then they'll fit into these jobs, and then there's no need to pick up foreign labor. Secondly, it is absurd to hear the Liberal Alliance talk about the importance of education, while at the same time saving on vocational training. That's where you could start.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164244	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164245	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for the green speech, and thank you to Denmark's green party, as we have heard today from the SF. It's a good thing there's a fight for that seat. That is only positive. But since SF is now so green, I would like to ask: is it not time that we stopped producing all fossil fuels in Denmark, including the oil we are pulling out of the North Sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164313	I certainly hope that we can introduce a ban on coal in Denmark by 2030, as the Alternative, the SF, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten have written a common chronicle about what we want. Because it has to be said that coal is one of the largest contributors to our CO2 when it comes to the extraction of oil and gas in the North Sea, it has to be said that the extraction itself is much more climate-friendly than if instead we had to import gas from Russia or oil from the Middle East. There is simply much more efficient production in the North Sea. That is not to say that I think we should continue and extract even more, but the Tyrafelt we have is actually also giving money in the treasury so that we can do other green things. I think it is a pity that the alternative is not included, because then perhaps we could spend even more money on green investments. But I have noted that the alternative generally chooses the position of not being in, and then we take the green tow.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164415	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164416	Well, there is a very clear reason why the alternative is not included in the North Sea Agreement, and that is that we basically believe that we should not pull oil out of the ground, either on land or on water. It is simply a completely ultimate demand from us or a position on which we stand, that we should not extract oil. If we want the green transition, we must leave the oil in the ground. But can I understand the fact that at some point in the future the SF can agree with the rest of us that we should leave the oil in the ground? For what is involved is that as soon as we put growth ahead of nature, namely by saying that it is important that we get the money in the treasury, then the concern for growth trumps the concern for nature. So can we get that balance tipped off?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164507	Yes, we can, if we can push through together, that in the future we are not driving in petrol cars or diesel cars, because that is the challenge. If we only did what the alternative proposes, namely stop oil tomorrow, I would guess that it will also apply: no oil imports tomorrow and no petrol imports, and then we will have some challenges like this in terms of mobility. It is hypocritical to say that we must not produce oil ourselves, but that we can import oil elsewhere. So I'm guessing that the alternative will be the raw product, namely no oil. And if you want to, we simply need to build up the infrastructure for electricity, I think we need to invest in electricity and also develop both electricity and other forms of non-fossil cars, because it will be crucial if we are to be able to deliver on no oil.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164553	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164554	I would just like to follow up on the fact that there is a choice, that either you want foreign labour or you want to give priority to education. At the moment, we are in a situation where, unfortunately, all education in Denmark is reduced with the re-priority contribution. We are also in a situation where a large number of places are beginning to show a shortage of labour. The reality is that it is the opposite. If you can get people to come to Denmark because there is a job, then they pay taxes, then it increases our welfare and our ability to invest in the things we want, education, green conversion etc. We have a job card system and other arrangements, and if all those who are here today went home, if freedom of movement were abolished and people went home, then we would have no room for manoeuvre to prioritise welfare on the basis of. That is why I think it is a counterposition to do when it is actually the case that those who come here and contribute their taxes contribute to our welfare, and that is why we should not be afraid to invite more as long as there is a job for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164659	I also think that Mr. Morten Østergaard has a little more like that pondus behind it, sir. Morten Østergaard says, because I know that the Radical Left does not want to cut education, but rather prioritise it. But I have to say that it is already possible for companies to obtain foreign labour. It's not like you can't get foreign labour. I mean, you can do one of those things. see that there are lots of Poles working on our construction sites that work lots of Germans and Frenchmen etc. So the point of saying that there is no foreign labour in Denmark at all is simply not correct. What we are talking about is labour from third countries, and that is where I think my concern and my party's concern, among other things. is about the fact that we are experiencing Ukrainians going on, for example. agricultural holdings or horticulture or in our forests for an incredibly low salary. That is what we do not think is reasonable. We simply do not have to underpay people, so that other people cannot really get a job, because then there will be competition on wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164759	Then I have a great idea that we can negotiate in the 30 seconds it takes to make the follow-up question. In other words, we say that we are relaxing the rules for getting people on job cards, provided that you pay collective wages and that you take in apprentices and provide internships for people who are in vocational training. If you do these two things, we get money in, and we invest that money in education. It's home!
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164825	Uh, it's nice to see Mr. Simpson. Morten Østergaard so optimistic! But the point is, we have an amount limit. And the reason we have this limit is because we're talking about some jobs where we already have people who don't have jobs today. Why not use the power to train them, to upgrade them and other things, from unskilled to skilled? They'll be able to get into those jobs. And then there's the limit. Above it, we can easily get your smart data technicians from somewhere or your smart medical researchers or something. It is possible, of course, with the limit on the amount. As far as we are concerned, we are afraid that the focus will disappear from some of the many people who are unemployed in Denmark, that we will use our energies to get them to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164907	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164909	Thank you. We are currently negotiating a media agreement. I hear over and over again that SF is opposed to us initiating a process to sell TV 2. What are the arguments against selling TV 2? It is the case today that Denmark is almost country no. 2 after North Korea, compared to the state owns so much media business if you take Danmarks Radio and TV 2 together. What are the arguments against starting a process to sell TV 2?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530164948	It is very interesting that a government party calls what is happening in Denmark, North Korea, yet it is a little violent. I don't think so. I think it is important that we have a public service in Denmark. I think it is important that we have two Danish channels that actually deliver something for us Danes. It creates a national community, and I have noted that Mr. Naser Khader is very concerned about this whole Danish thing. I am very concerned, for example, about the fact that we are dealing with the problem. have a common language, that we develop programmes that are precisely in Danish, that we have a national framework of understanding. Then I don't understand, sir. Naser Khader's enthusiasm for selling one of the tools we have in the public service. After all, it is really letting go of some of it and perhaps risking that we will have a very sad development in our media market.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165038	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165039	Now I'm not comparing Denmark to North Korea. What I am saying is in relation to owning so much media business, so Denmark is a country where the state owns almost three quarters of the media business, and one of the reasons why we want to initiate a process to sell TV 2 is that private people can also provide public service. Nobody says that when we sell TV 2, TV 2 will be different than TV 2 is today. After all, TV 2 Norway was sold to Egmont and continued to provide the public service. I'd like more public service, much more. It is good for Denmark that public service is provided, but it does not need to be provided by the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165124	It is a little thought-provoking that one of the government's parties says that one would like to have more public service when what has been proposed in the media negotiations is that we should have less public service. Then I hope that the Conservatives will put their lot in the scales with the SF, which says that public service is important. It is important that we have good children's programmes, it is important that we have good youth programmes, because we know that the media consumption of young people has been heavily fragmented, and if we want them to have such a common framework of understanding, we must provide good public service. So I really hope that we can have a small alliance in relation to the Conservatives and the SF going over and saying: no business, not the savings that are on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165208	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165209	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The Left has, of course, concluded a number of agreements in recent weeks with a number of parties to combat parallel societies and also to ensure better integration. As far as children are concerned, we made two appointments on Monday. SF was in one, and I would like to thank you for that, but I did not quite understand why SF would not be part of the other agreement, which is precisely to provide a mandatory learning offer to the 1-year-olds and thus ensure that they are well integrated in this country and learn the language. What was the reason SF didn't want to join?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165305	Because it was a bad suggestion. Honestly, that was a bad suggestion. We're in on forced day offers. In fact, we believe that children should go to both day nurseries and day care centres, because that is where people meet across the board and get a better understanding of each other and develop the language. We were actually willing to go a long way there. But where we get off is when the bill gets stupid. That's when it comes to kids being there from 8:00. 12:00 to 9:00. 17.5% and that children should not sleep during that time, because children must learn about democracy. Now I've been trying to have a 1-year-old child myself, and she couldn't stay awake from 1 a.m. 12:00 to 9:00. 17.00. Then parents also have to pay for diapers and for food. If you want to make this an offer that is really understood and caught and becomes part of their reality, then it probably also requires that we dare make it a free offer. That is what the SF proposed, but unfortunately the government could not agree to it and that is why we are not in the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165409	I think it is important to stick to the truth when you speak in this Chamber. It's not like these 1-year-old kids aren't allowed to sleep in the time they're there. But it is also natural that when you make an effort and for that matter put 14 million. kr. In that, you also want to make sure that those children get something out of it. I think there is a contradiction in the fact that, on the one hand, the SF wants to introduce compulsory day-to-day services for everyone in this country, but, on the other hand, it does not want to introduce compulsory learning services, so that the very children whom the SF rapporteur also mentioned in the rapporteur's speech will have a good life. So the rapporteur has to explain it to me one more time. I think there is a contradiction between the points made by the rapporteur in his speech and the fact that we do not want to be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165501	I would like to try again with Mrs Anni Matthiesen. For us, of course, it is a question of ensuring good integration. There should be no doubt about that. In fact, I think we are very much in agreement that this is actually our wish. What we think is necessary to ensure that it is good integration is, of course, that it becomes a day offer that you are there from 8 p.m. 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 in the morning, as appropriate, for the afternoon, that is, you are part of it with all the other children. Here, however, you choose to make a special offer from kl. 12:00 to 9:00. 5 p.m. where the children must be present all the time. Then you can say to this little child: Okay, you can do it sometimes, but at least you have to be spiritually present almost all the time. We're talking about kids 1 year old. I simply believe that it is crucial that there is time for children to be children and to be with other children, but that also requires that we do not have that one-sided focus on a particular solution. I think that's a real shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165554	We're gonna squeeze in another liberal. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165558	Thanks, that's always great to hear. Britt Baker previously asked a little about both the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration benefit, and I do not think Pia Olsen Dyhr really answered about the integration benefit. For the benefits of integration are, after all, a cornerstone of our foreign policy. I believe that it has contributed to the fact that we have significantly increased the number of refugees on the labour market, as the Prime Minister mentioned, we have gone from about one in five to over one in three who have entered work after three years in Denmark. I also believe that it has been at the heart of curbing the influx of asylum to Denmark. In 3 years we have gone from being one of the most popular destinations for refugees and migrants to being down to no. 16, I think, in the European Union over the most popular destinations in Europe. Does Mrs Pia Olsen recognize Dyhr that the integration benefit contributes to getting more people into work and fewer people into Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165658	In fact, I have not seen figures that actually prove that integration benefits are what get people into work. On the other hand, I have seen figures from the Ministry of Finance which clearly show that because of the boom we have, 13 000 more people have been employed but not because of the reduction in benefits. So I would certainly like to look at the figures, because that is certainly not what the Ministry of Finance has sent over to the Danish Parliament so far. Secondly, we have said that we sincerely believe that when you make people poor, you also make it much, much harder for them to become part of this society, and that's no matter where you come from or who you are. When we make children poor, so that they cannot participate in birthdays on equal terms with others, because we know that you have to bring a gift when you go to birthday, and they can't afford it, and then they get away, they get more and more excluded from society, and that's not good for anyone, not at all if we want to increase integration. So we would like to look at the fact that the benefits are coming back. But what we have said very clearly is that the ceiling on cash benefits must be removed; that is a requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165801	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165803	Thank you. I can only say that we are far from agreeing. So let me put a question in another direction, which is what I also asked Mr. Morten Østergaard on the • he didn't really choose to answer the question in relation to the credibility of the Social Democratic Party when it comes to foreign policy. Helle Thorning-Schmidt said in 2010 that she could not dream of moving towards a more relaxed foreign policy and that it would not be the Radicals who should decide the policy of foreigners. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr herself knows what happened in the c. Thirty-and-a-half years, when there was a Red Prime Minister. What does Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr think about the credibility of the Social Democratic Party when one hears Mette Frederiksen say almost exactly the same thing that Helle Thorning-Schmidt said at the time, after which Helle Thorning-Schmidt did exactly the opposite of what she said?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165855	I'm not gonna be the one to grade Mrs. Helle Thorning-Schmidt in Parliament. I do not think there is any doubt that SF and Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt have sometimes had some fights between themselves, but if I am to assess Mrs Mette Frederiksen, then there is no doubt about her credibility. I believe that Mrs Mette Frederiksen says what she means and that she will also deliver on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165923	Then we go to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165927	Thank you. I'd like to pick up on sir. Henning Hyllested's question, to which I do not think there was a very clear answer. This is about the housing agreement that SF is part of. After all, it is an agreement which prohibits people on transfer income from moving into certain residential areas, which are just by chance the residential areas where you can afford to live if you do not have so much money. So there I just want to hear SF: What is your answer to those people? So where are these people gonna live?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530165959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170000	It is true that cash benefits recipients are not allowed to move to the 16 areas on the ghetto list. That is quite correct. Mrs Rosa Lund is right about that. But there are other areas of general housing in Denmark, and as I mentioned before, Gellerup is well enough on this list, and there can be no transfer of a social assistance recipient, but it is not Trøjborg, and there can be a transfer of the benefit recipient. I seriously believe that the children of the help recipient will feel far better by living at Trøjborg than in Gellerup. I think it's much better to live in areas where you're mixed up. I cannot understand Enhedslisten's enthusiasm that the socially vulnerable should live with the socially vulnerable, preferably a little isolated from the rest of us. I believe in mixed residential areas, because that is where we get to know each other; that is what strengthens the cohesion; that is what makes us understand each other's problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170053	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170054	I fully agree that mixed residential areas are a very good thing. I'm not talking about anyone being isolated here; we don't really talk about that in the Enhedslisten. I am just asking the SF's rapporteur where these people, who are now not going to be able to afford to spend anywhere, because there is a ban on them living in certain residential areas. Housing associations say there will be a shortage of 11,000 family homes. It certainly means that there are some people who are going to be missing a place to live. And I just want to hear from SF: Where are these people going to live?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170130	Firstly, I myself mentioned two examples before, as I am sure Mrs Lund heard. The Gellerup Park is actually more expensive than Trøjborg. It would be better to get into Trøjborg, but there are just very, very long waiting lists. There it would be much better for them to get ahead of the waiting list. Because what I'm concerned about is some of those social housing areas' waiting lists. I am, for example. grew up in one in Vallensbæk, where there are 20 years waiting list. There I think it would be good for the children of the recipient of cash benefits to grow up, because then you live together. There is a challenge to getting more housing, and we must help to achieve that. Firstly, when selling housing, money will be able to be used to build new homes. I also think that together with Enhedslisten we could actually find some solutions in Copenhagen on where it is that we should build next time. I hope that we can agree that we should build out in North Harbour where I know that there are some people in Hellerup who are a little upset that they will have a view destroyed, but it will be an obvious area to build in the area and that we reserve an area there to always be for public housing. The problem is, of course, a little that when it is built, it is often private homes, and it then pushes people together in some other areas. I think this can force housing policy to the next level by ensuring that we experience some other general housing. But I'm not saying this is the solution to everything. I'm not saying that. I know there are challenges in this, but I think that if we don't get started, we're gonna miss a chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170258	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170302	Thank you. I would actually like to come back to this agenda on foreign labour, because there is simply something in the rapporteur's reply to Mr Beazley's question. Morten Østergaard, whom I cannot get to vote with the image that I normally have of the SF, namely as a party that has an international outlook and also has an open mind view of people. This is actually how I perceive SF, and I think SF would like to see itself that way too. It is just incredibly bad in that when it comes to, for example. As Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also pointed out, we insist that the door should only be open to particularly well-educated, highly-paid foreigners who, according to the SF's recommendation, should earn at least this DKK 418,000. a year. My question is actually quite trivial: what is really wrong with a foreigner who can maintain a salary, let's say DKK 375,000.? What's wrong with him anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170357	There's nothing wrong with him.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170359	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170401	But he is not good enough for him to enter the Denmark where the SF decides.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170408	It depends a little on which country he comes from. If he comes from an EU country, he can actually look for work in Denmark. We have free movement, and I think there are a great many Danes who have noted that there are people of other European origin who work in Denmark. It's just to put it in place, because I've noticed that the Liberal Alliance and the Radicals make this sound like we're keeping foreigners out. We don't really do that. What we are concerned with is the talk of third countries. When I hear from our mayor at Langeland, Tonni Hansen, tell me about people who have come down to the union with a paycheck where they get 12 kroner. in an hour to work in a nursery in Denmark, we have a problem. That is why we have entered into a serious discussion about setting a limit on amounts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170454	I'm sorry to have to say this, but no matter how short an answer you get, you only get two rounds. Then we'll have a final squirt now with mr. Carl Holst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170501	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her speech. As regards the number of tightenings that have taken place since the change of government in 2015, the SF as a party has been behind a dozen of them, 12-13 pieces, I think, out of the 76. My question to the SF rapporteur is: how many of those people have not been part of will you roll back? Or may I ask another question: can Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr give me three examples of austerity which, at the time of a change of government, one wishes to roll back?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170556	Well, I think that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has such a very good sentence, which he has used several times up here: Government is not really being negotiated in the Assembly Hall, not at all when we have not had a choice. We have not had the opportunity to have a new Prime Minister at all, and I would like to wait until I stand and negotiate with Mr Beazley. Carl Holst about what to say in it. But I would like to say so much as that we are dealing with policy proposals of this kind. We are looking at whether it is good or bad in terms of getting a more socially fair Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170629	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170630	Now I think you have to be careful about doing Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's theorem for something you can just use every time you don't want to relate to it. I think, sir. Morten Østergaard referred to it three times and called it: Here is the ticket out of prison. Out of prison compared to saying your opinion? I am asking for a political debate and for a sense of what the views are so that we can share our views. Which three of the seventy-seven tightenings that have taken place will the SF prioritize? In the service of public education, I think we should know. Having it rolled back has nothing to do with government, it has something to do with SF's attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170719	I will give two to the rapporteur. There must be some kind of compromise in relation to what we are talking about. First of all, I think this proposal on compulsory learning offers is a really bad idea. I think we should set up compulsory day-care institutions, we should be in day-care centres all day, it is good for integration. That would be a proposal that I would be working for, so that things will change; there should be no doubt about that. In addition, the SF is very concerned that Denmark is again going to take quota refugees, we think it is absolutely crucial when you ask other countries around the world to lift their international responsibility, that Denmark should of course also do so. In fact, I think it is a little shameful that we do not accept quota refugees in a world where we have such great challenges. But, as I said, we will then be negotiating with a future government, and I think the Left understands that very well, it is a similar situation that they may again find themselves in one day.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170816	Thank you very much to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, and warmly welcome Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party, who has even attracted audiences from our Nordic co-operation to listen to her today. Welcome to them, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530170833	Thank you for the floor. Now we've been sitting here in the Assembly Hall the last like this. 9 hours, but I have sensed by looking out the window that it is brilliantly good weather outside today, and the summer is really over Denmark. I think the Danes are looking forward to a holiday, to a swim in the North Sea, to an ice cream on the harbor and perhaps a bike ride in the Danish country. Others stick to watching cycling on TV, I do that personally. I love to bend on the sofa to the sound of Jørgen Leth's voice, which describes mountain landscapes in the Tour de France. That's the best I know. I know the PM loves the Tour de France, too. Last year he was on the charm offensive with President Macron to convince him that we need to start a trip to Denmark. As we wait for success, I will take you on a small tour of Denmark. We start in North Jutland. If you as a bicycle rider have to go down and bite the asphalt, there must be help to get from the health care system. That is why the government has set aside 800 million in the Finance Act. kr. to the nearest health care system. It is something that matters locally, for example in Frederikshavn, where you have got 6 million. kr. to a doctor's office. Unfortunately, a puncture hits the bike team as we pass through the scenic area of Hammer Bakker in North Jutland. Never mind. Never mind. While the bike is patched, we enjoy the beautiful natural area. Here soon one of Denmark's greatest natural restoration projects will start. This has been possible because of a lot of private funds, but also because of the money we Conservatives had placed in the Finance Act in connection with our last agreement. It's a green fingerprint that we Conservatives are really, really proud of. We now arrive in Midtjylland, of course through the home of my party chairman, Viborg. Viborg actually means sacred mountain. When riders drive up the steep mountains, we sometimes see that they drop their water bottles, enthusiastic children pick them up and hide them as souvenirs. It is also the only case in which I can accept the throwing of plastic into nature. The field therefore stops at Færch Plast in Holstebro. Once they boasted that all their material was made on virgin plastic, brand new plastic. Today, they boast of the exact opposite, that they recycle plastic from our mortgage system and use it to make food packaging instead. We need to have even more success stories like this in the future. I would like to commend the opposition, which has presented a very fine proposal for a new plastic action plan. Soon we will also come with ours from the government with even more good initiatives. In Aarhus, the field runs through the Gellerup Park. Here the Minister of Justice has recently visited to talk to both residents and police about how to create more security in the area. Aarhus Vest has been hard hit by gang war. Just as doping riders are severely punished when they do not follow the rules, we must also punish those who create insecurity in the streets. That is why we are strengthening the police by 1.3 billion. kr. Towards 2021. We are increasing admission to the police school by 300 students both this year and next year. Fortunately, it is clear that the government's gang package is working. The gangs are under pressure. In 40 days, nine gang members have been given more than 75 years in prison. Fortunately, the number of shootings in public spaces is falling and in one year 40% has been set. more gang members in prison than the previous year. It is record high, and how pleased it was to be able to read on the front page of Berlingske Tidende the other day that the gang Loyal to Familia crumbles. Of course, the trip also offers a single start. It takes place in the green energy capital, Esbjerg. Here you will be able to see from the bike that the construction of Horns Rev 3 is in full swing. We are also in the process of negotiating a new energy settlement here in the Folketing. On the conservative side, we hope for a broad settlement and for an ambitious settlement where we jointly take responsibility for future generations. I can hardly bear to think about how much the debate today has been used to talk us away from each other instead of talking us closer to each other. If that means that we miss our opportunity to act, we will never be forgiven by future generations. No tour de Denmark without a drinking break, and the field makes stop at the Danish-German border. We would like to reduce the volume of cross-border trade. That is why, in the autumn, we made a major business and growth package for nearly 15 billion. kr., where we among others. will remove taxes that make it more attractive today to trade in Germany than to trade in Denmark. We hop on the iron horse again and drive 177 km on to Nyborg. Here we find the Skovbrynen Children's House. They are very successful in meeting the modern children's family. They want flexible opening hours, the possibility of combining home care with an institutional space. Our Minister for Children and Social Affairs, Mai Mercado, wants this model to be extended to the rest of the country. That is why we welcome the agreement that has been made on day-to-day offers, and I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the parties of the Folketing for the agreement that everyone managed to make on a new family-right system. In the Conservative People's Party, we want to make a stronger effort for our children. We know from among other things. American research that the first 1,000 days of a child's life are crucial to how they proceed. That is also why we have put children's education into debate. Fortunately, most parents are doing well, but there is a problem when there is a minority that does not teach their children the fundamental values we have in our society, and that is why compulsory day-to-day provision may also be necessary in the vulnerable residential areas. The field now crosses the Storebælt Bridge, which on today's occasion is closed to traffic. We have had to give the Minister of Transport a promise that we will be lowering the Storebælt tariff even more as a thank you for your help on this occasion. A good cycling team must be able to attack, but also to protect and defend each other in the field. For decades, a political majority has reduced our defences in one conciliation after another. For us Conservatives, it has felt like an out-of-category increase to convince most other parties that we need a strong defence. But now we have succeeded. The defence will have a substantial boost in the coming years, so the allocation in 2023 will be strengthened by nearly 5 billion. kr. That's why I'm gonna let the tour go for a walk past Korsør. More than 60 new jobs have been created by the closure-threatening naval station. It's a direct result of the defense settlement. As legislators, we must be helpers for our many talented companies in Denmark. Therefore, we send the field through a Conservative municipality, Høje Taastrup, so that the riders can experience Sjælland's most business-friendly municipality. Should the Danish business community have a share of wind on the cycle path in the future, we must continue the fight against the generational tax. In the coming years, up to 23,000 Danish companies will have to make a generational change. If we do not want to risk that this could lead to redundancies among the more than 300,000 employees, we must continue to reduce the tax on generational shifts. We have already come a long way at this stage. We have been reduced from 15 to 5 per cent, but if we are to achieve our goal and help the Danish companies that create growth and welfare in Denmark, we must continue. Let me briefly turn to another foolish treasure, namely the treasure of ending up in days or, as we call it in the Conservative People's Party, a bit harsh, but that is what is happening, the death tax. For when our field goes from Høje Taastrup and is heading for City Hall Square, we pass Vanløse. This is where we meet Rasmus Drews. He recently told us in the Berlingske Tidende that on the day he can't be on earth anymore, he wants his sister to inherit him, but because a sister isn't counted as his immediate family, our legislation means that he must be taxed by more than a third of the values he leaves behind, values that are already taxed once and for all. We do not understand that in the Conservative People's Party. Now we have reached the finish line in Copenhagen. Our chance to start a tour depends to a large extent on the fact that we have a strong and well-functioning capital. Etap's over, but before you go all hot, I'm gonna give out today's sweaters. The white youth shirt I will give to the young political talent of the Danish People's Party, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. He has distinguished himself as a strong rider, and I know that he and our Justice Minister have worked well together in the past year. I would like to give the Green Point Shirt to Mrs Britt Baker, who has spawned in a short time to be the new political rapporteur of the Left and who has very well represented her party today. Then there's the dotted mountain sweater for someone who always goes towards the heights. It's gotta be sir. Uffe Elbæk and the Alternative. There is no such thing as a green policy. We don't always agree, but it's nice to have a mountain rider in the Folketing. Then, of course, we shall finish off with the yellow shirt. This year we have put Denmark record into employment. There are fewer on public support than there have been for 11 years, and growth is higher in Denmark than it has been for 10 years. In short, Danish economy is in top shape. It's going well in Denmark. That's why I think the PM should be at the top of the podium in the yellow shirt. Some may wonder why I am not giving it to my party chairman, the Minister for Justice, but frankly I think that the Prime Minister is better in tight cycling than my party chairman does. Although I may also have to give our both clever and very charming Crown Princess absolutely right: These things rarely dress men over 40. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172020	Thank you so much for the fantastic pace. Now we move on to the questions, and the first questioner is Mr. Simon Kollerup of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172029	Thank you. If the government has been around so much by bicycle, I understand that it seems metal tired here at the finish line with less than a year to election and has completely lost breath. So now you can gather air while the first question comes here. It is, of course, about the energy initiative. I often know the Conservative People's Party as the business party, which is why it has puzzled me so much to read in the energy scenario that there are no measures at all in relation to energy efficiency improvements in buildings. This is precisely a matter which the business community has highlighted as a lack of ambition, a lack of concrete action that they lack. That is why my question is: why has the rapporteur's party not secured this in the energy proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172122	Thank you for the question. I'm sorry if I sounded a little out of breath during the bike ride. It may also be related to the fact that I have a small baby pushing my internal organs, but that is of course no excuse. I think the government has put forward an ambitious proposal which sets out a good green direction for Denmark. In terms of energy efficiency, we have chosen to prioritise the funds where we know the returns are highest, and that is in industry. There has been a great deal of criticism about the current energy saving scheme, among other things. from the National Audit Office, including: That we have spent part of taxpayers' money to pay for some energy renovations that would have come anyway. Having said that, housing must, of course, also play a role, which is why the government has also put forward a strategy for the whole housing sector with concrete targets for 2030, 2040 and 2050. However, we are happy to discuss it further in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172218	Now the rapporteur says it is an ambitious proposal, but I just have to quote Kim Fausing, who is Danfoss' director. He has said that it is a bad idea not to include these energy efficiency improvements in buildings, and he has also said: if the low level of ambition is translated into the final agreement, Denmark will lose its international green strength position. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party exactly why we are going to lose the green leadership and start with a business sector that really lacks concrete measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings. I do not quite understand why business has not been followed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172307	We are always happy to listen to the green business community. Of course, you also have to be a little critical of the source, understood in the sense that it is clear that there are some Danish companies who make a living selling energy efficiency solutions and who will always want more. For us, it is crucial that we do not pay for anything that will come anyway, and that is one of them. what the National Audit Office has pointed to in their criticism. We have, in fact, been very concerned by energy renovations of buildings, among other things. Mr Bendt Bendtsen, our distinguished European Parliamentarian, as rapporteur on a directive in the European Parliament which has really moved a few fence posts in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172341	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172343	Thank you for that, and thank you for the tour. I noted that the rapporteur was a trip to Korsør down at the fine naval station, which we are also very pleased about now. Elsewhere in Korsør lies the heavily burdened residential area of Motalavej, and right next to it there is a day care centre with over 60%. children coming from inside this troubled residential area. The Conservative Minister for Children and Social Affairs has now brought that figure down to 30%, and that can only happen by admitting some children other than those living on Motalavej. So I just want to hear: how is it good conservative policy that children who have grown up in the villa a little further away or at the other end of town now have to be driven into this day care center to get that percentage down, instead of those children being enrolled in the day care center just around the corner where their parents really wanted them to go? Why is it that these children should act as integration consultants in the government's ghetto plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172454-2	Thank you for the question. I have noted that an agreement was reached on this the other day that the Danish People's Party was not part of, and it is quite fair that we look at this point differently. For me, it is very much about cohesion that we have a responsibility to ensure that Denmark is linked. We control that, among other things. by ensuring that there are not too many people coming to Denmark and that we can deal with those who come here, but we also ensure the cohesion, by living mixed, that we live mixed and that we go to school mixed. And one way of achieving this is to ensure that today's institutions have a reasonable distribution. I grew up in a real village school myself, and I think I was in 4th or 5th grade before the first one came to my school that was not born and raised in Denmark. I do not think that is good for the Danish children who live there either. I think it is good for us that we meet different cultures and that we get to know each other, and I think that applies in this respect too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172550	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172551	But is it not such a good conservative policy that it is they who are causing the problems that also have to pay the bill? These children are the children of parents who have settled on some residential road somewhere in Korsør town with the hope that the children among others. could come down to the day care center just around the corner. The problems at Motalavej have been created by the fact that there are some, mainly immigrants, who have lumped themselves together there and have created a parallel society there, thus giving rise to the problem that there is now a day's institution next door, which has become what one might call a ghetto children's garden. That problem was created by the parents on Motalavej and not by the parents on the villa road. Why is it that the children on the villa road have to pay for other people creating a ghetto?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172645	I do not believe that the children on the villa road pay any price, and I do not think it is a fair language to say that it is the children who come from socially disadvantaged residential areas that have caused the problems. We're talking about two or three-year-olds who have to learn to commit themselves and who have their whole lives ahead of them. I believe that it is in the interests of all children that we interfere, that we do not build ghettos, that we do not create parallel societies, and I am rather surprised that the Danish People's Party, which is so concerned about Danish traditions and culture, cannot also see that if we are to succeed, we cannot have parallel societies in Denmark. And this is an effective way to fight parallel societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172724	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172726	Now there is a great deal of interest in the energy negotiations that are running, and there are among others. an interest organisation • Synergi • which has been out with some announcements about energy efficiency improvements. Apparently, new savings are being made using a new method of calculation. By including the impact of existing energy taxes to a much greater extent than before, the EU's energy savings requirements will be met by 2030. After all, we in the European Union have a requirement that we should have energy savings of 1.5%. a year. The Enhedslisten would like it to be 2%, and now the government's initiative is to come up with a new method of calculation, so that it means that it may have had an effect that we have had some high energy taxes from 2012 to 2020. It must then be counted in a new inventory method. Against this background, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we should go for this EU target to be achieved with some real energy savings from 2020 to 2030, or whether this should be achieved by making some new creative accounting and bringing some effects from 2012 to 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172843	I can reassure you, sir. Soren Egge Rasmussen says that we in the government do not use any creative methods of calculation, either at this point or at any other point. It is clear that if we are to achieve an EU target of 1.5% energy efficiency on final consumption, we are doing so on the basis of the permitted methods in the EU system, and we are, of course, sticking to that. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen asks that in reality it could be higher than the 1.5%. It should also have been seen with my conservative glasses. It does something when we set European objectives and when we push up the level of European ambition. So I would only think that was good.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172920	Well, there's a prospect that the driver's position on the bike will turn into something about you being dragged in the back of the field. I have seen that the Conservatives have reported something a week before the government made its move to the energy negotiations, where among other things. "If it's up to the Conservatives, a total of three new offshore wind farms will have to be set up until 2030." The rapporteur now mentioned that the Conservatives are in favour of a broad and ambitious settlement. I would like to know whether the rapporteur still believes that an ambitious energy agreement with three large offshore wind farms should be set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530172957-2	The announcement we made in the Conservative People's Party actually came on the same day that the government presented its plans to build one of the world's largest offshore wind farms, which will be able to supply what corresponds to Denmark's seven largest cities with green energy. What lies in the government's initiative is that we are reporting out clearly now with one park of 800 MW, but that we are also saying quite clearly that it is not a question of how much more so, I think it is a pity when you try to make it look as if the government only wants one offshore wind farm. Because that is not a possible scenario in what the government has presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173031	The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173034	Thank you. I would like to ask a few questions about our drinking water, our groundwater, which is not feeling so well at the moment. After all, we have an historically high level of contamination of our drinking water. In one in ten drinking water wells, the level is above the permitted level in relation to pesticide residues, i.e. pesticide residues, and one in four drinking water wells are contaminated. What are we gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173100	I am really glad that Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier is asking about this. In fact, I myself was somewhat provoked by a wording used earlier by the questioner in relation to drinking water. Because it came to sound as if you can hardly drink the water from the tap in Denmark, so polluted is it. I also find it very difficult to recognise the figures presented by the rapporteur. The latest figures I have received from the Ministry show that 26 per cent of findings have been made. of the boreholes, but only in 3.5%. of the boreholes it is above the limit value, and that is some slightly different numbers. What we can see in particular is that the findings that are being made are in the upper layer from terrain and 30 m down. This is especially where it is seen to have become clean. This shows that it is the sins of the past that we pay the price for, in other words pesticides, which have been allowed in Denmark before, but which are no longer. But we must not rest on the laurels, and that is why we have also drawn up a pesticide action plan which, as far as I remember, is unfortunately not part of, but in which, among other things, we are involved. go in and protect what is called the drilling areas, i.e. the area around the ground water drilling, better than we have done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173211	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173212	After all, it is a question of voluntary protection, and we clearly believe in the alternative that we must be much more ambitious. I can say, in relation to the figures on drinking water that I know, that it is GEUS that is behind them and that it is in 10%. of the boreholes where drinking water has been found which is above the pollution limit value. But the debate on what figures are right can be taken afterwards. I would like to ask another question. For one thing, drinking water, which we can be really worried about, is that we should not rest on the laurels at all, but another thing, of course, is our farmland. Denmark is one of the most cultivated countries in the world; together with Bangladesh we are the most cultivated country in the world. We have 60%. agricultural land, and 80%. is used for feed. Should we not do something more to get more nature instead of having so much agricultural land in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173259	The numbers I'm referring to are from 2016. I do not know the year of the questioner's figures, but it may be in there that there is a difference. Now I think it seems wild if there's so much difference. This isn't voluntary with the drilling-related protection areas compared to these washing places, which I remember the agreement. In relation to the farmland it will be a little fast with not so much time left. made this agreement on targeted regulation, which makes it easier to grow the land that can hold to it, but otherwise I agree with the desire to allocate more to clean natural space and get more wild nature in Denmark. There I think the alternative has presented some really exciting ideas in the nature play that the party made some time ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173340	The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173343	I too, as a total sports idiot, would like to welcome an excellent speech with lots of bicycle metaphors and thus also take a sprint through some of the things that have been affected in the past. Thank you for your reply, too, to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I think it is so important that we recognise that children born in Denmark are just children, regardless of who they are, and that if they are allowed to meet across the board and meet each other across the board, we actually have some of the most fundamental things in our society, namely that which creates trust. So thank you for that part of the speech, too. What I would like to ask is a little further to what Mrs Magdalene Maier was talking about, namely that with the sins of the past in drinking water. Probably always will be. If we find something in our drinking water, no one's gonna put it directly in it. It is the sins of the past that are sinning. That is why we must be very careful when we allow ourselves to deduce more. This was, of course, some of the things at stake in the agricultural package that Conservatives, before becoming a government party, were very critical of. I would just like to ask Mrs Mette Abildgaard: is it not the case that today we are probably more sceptical about the basis on which it was made then, because it has come to light that the researchers who were behind it recognise that the time pressure did not carry out proper risk calculations and so on, and that we are in danger of having to stand and say again at some point: well, that is the sins of the past, unfortunately there is nothing to do about that. We kicked off back then around 2015-2017?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173512	In relation to drinking water, let me just clarify. I got a little messed up before. Where we see the fall in pesticide residue measurements is in the newly formed groundwater, the top 30 m from terrain and down. In relation to the agricultural package, I have to say that it is a few years since we finished it and moved on. What we criticized from the conservative side was the application of some calculations. However, it is clear that what has emerged in relation to laboratory errors is not something that can be blamed on our government for being responsible for, because it is in this sense some calculations whose origin lies further back in time. It is clear that this leads us to consider whether there is a need for adjustments. We'll know that when we get the updated data from the lab.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173556	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173558	But we can surely agree, in order to take up the theme that I really wanted to address, that perhaps it has been a little like that with the openness of the process that has been going on, the openness of the data base, the openness of the authority-based research and the conditions under which it has been carried out. This brings me to the outstanding issue of the Public Service Act, where we are still negotiating away, even though it is in the government's framework that we want to relax. I would just still like to demand an answer from the Conservative People's Party: does it stand by what you said before you came into government, that you want to roll back, or at least significantly relax, and can we expect there to be a real debate going beyond the target photo to determine whether the relaxation that has been presented will really make a difference in the real world?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173647	It was quite a transition, I have to give it to Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard, from agricultural package to public law. The Conservative People's Party has not changed its attitude to the Public Service Act. We continue to believe the same as we have done so far. I personally was one of those who stood and demonstrated down at the Palace Square the only demonstration in my life when the old Public Act was passed because there were some elements in one that were not good. Negotiations are now under way. This is an expression of a compromise between both large parties in the blue block, but indeed also in the red block, which has very strong positions, including with regard to the public law. How these negotiations end, indeed, I think the questioner knows better than I do, but time has to show that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173729	Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173731	Thank you. I will follow up where my colleague Mr. Simon Kollerup ended when it came to energy efficiency improvements. After all, we made it clear that an industrial mastodont like Danfoss at Director Kim Fausing thinks that the government's proposal is unambitious and that it can have consequences for our position of strength. Now I am so glad that the rapporteur has just mentioned Mr Beazley's report. Bendt Bendtsen, who knows something about this area and who has been rapporteur on a proposal for it here in the European Parliament. Sir. Bendt Bendtsen has also spoken out about the energy project, and I quote: "... a two-legged energy initiative, one of which is energy saving. Unfortunately, it is almost cut out in the proposed proposal. He goes on to say: "Why on earth are these priorities not reflected in a new energy initiative to reach the future? There I would like to ask the rapporteur, since the rapporteur has now acknowledged that Mr Beazley is a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Bendt Bendtsen has a great deal of insight into this matter and has said this: does the rapporteur here today agree or disagree with Mr Bendt's report? Bendt Bendtsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173837	Well, that's the starting point, sir. Bendt Bendtsen has in his statement that he has worked on energy renovation of buildings in Brussels. He has a great deal of insight into that. In the government's game, we've been playing the game of spending 400 million. kr. on energy efficiency improvements. That's quite a lot of money. We have listened to the criticism that has come from the Reichsaudit, in relation to where one should take action, where one should have its primary focus. All figures show that additionality, i.e. returns, is considerably greater in industry than it is in private households. This does not mean that we do not necessarily have to do anything in private households, but there is just a lot to do in industry where it socio-economically gives a higher return before we get to private households.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173919	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173921	I listened to the rapporteur's speech, and it was quite entertaining as such a green bike ride in Denmark, but I am afraid that parts of that bike ride may end up in a black hole if that is how you do not have any objectives for where you want to go with your energy policy. So now that this whole area of energy saving is written out of play, I just want to ask the rapporteur: does the government have any objective whatsoever of reducing energy consumption in buildings at some stage in the future? Because without a goal, you don't get very far either. So is there a specific objective? Let's hear about it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530173957	It is simply not true that the government has written out energy efficiency improvements, because it is addressed. It's being addressed with 400 million. kr., and it does that where it socio-economically makes the biggest gain. By the way, we are putting in place a plan for the housing sector by 2030, 2040 and 2050 for how we will have it refurbished. There we will set more concrete targets than were actually achieved in the housing strategy of the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174022	Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174024	Thank you. First of all, thank you for an enthusiastic speech by the rapporteur. I must say in relation to the tour de Danmark that I really do not think Jørgen Leth could have done much better. The only disappointment was that the trip didn't reach North Zealand at all, but maybe next time it will. Now Conservatives have been wearing the green bourgeois shirt long before it became modern in the Left, and it obliges to be a green bourgeois profile, so I would like to ask a few questions about nature policy. We have a much-pressed and fragmented nature and, to put it mildly, it is not going well to protect the endangered species of animals and plants. We are far behind in fulfilling the European agreements we have concluded in the field of nature. For 13 out of the last 17 years, we have had a Left-led government with conservative support, and in those years, among other things, we have. the hare was on the red list, and more species of birds we can no longer hear. So in recent years Conservatives have been the support party for a Left Government and also sat at the government table. How does Conservatives feel about reversing developments in relation to nature and biodiversity? Is it ambitious enough with conservative glasses? And how will Conservatives ensure that we do not leave a poorer nature to our children and grandchildren?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174146	Thank you for the question. The Assembly Hall was 100 years old the other day, and there I was reminded of one of my most proud debates here in the Assembly Hall, and it was a time when we discussed biodiversity until half past five in the night here in the Assembly Hall that biodiversity was on heaths and on excessive heaths and all sorts of other places. Enthusiasm was great, and it was because we agree that we have huge challenges with diversity in relation to animal and plant species. To be honest, I do not think that this has been achieved in the last three years, but every government has a responsibility to act. That is why we have also created a natural package for 365 million. kr. We Conservatives have written into the government base that nature goals should be created for Denmark, something that among other things. Denmark's Conservation Association has been calling for many years. We must then have goals for how our excesses should feel by 2020, by 2030; how our heatses should feel, etc. So far, we have set aside 80 million. kr. I recognise that is not enough, but it is money for us to get started and get action started.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174247	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174249	Well, I hope that we will then agree that the government's natural package is, in such a way, a patch on an open wound when it comes to turning the decline into progress. So now I am asking a little more forward: do the Conservatives agree that the municipalities play and must play an important role in nature protection, and are the Conservatives prepared to give the municipalities some more muscle so that the green Danish map can get more substance, for example by. to allow municipalities to propose relevant and endangered habitat types for Natura 2000 protection? And are the Conservatives also taking part in the proposal to draw up some action plans for all the relevant habitat types, so that we also achieve the goal of reversing the decline in species?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174339	Yes, the Conservative People's Party is so ready to make action plans for habitat types. That's exactly what we set out to do with these nature goals. And yes, the Conservative People's Party is willing to discuss how to ensure that the green Danish map is even better implemented in the municipalities. Now it is still relatively new that they have got the working tool at all, so we will also try to see how the municipalities have implemented it. In relation to the Natura 2000 areas, we had a very good debate on this in the Parliamentary Chamber recently, and no, we do not see from the conservative side that the municipalities should have the opportunity to appoint. There we appreciate state uniformity in the quality of nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174414	Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174417	I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks it is fair that in future there will now be Danish parents whose children can no longer go to the local kindergarten but who instead have to be moved to a ghetto children's garden. What will the rapporteur say to the parents whose children have now lost the right they had before to go to the local kindergartens?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174444	I think it has never been a right to go to exactly one kindergarten rather than the other kindergarten. I think that is very different from the municipality to the municipality, what the policy is like in relation to it. I have heard a figure in connection with this agreement, which says that it is equivalent to approx. 2% of the children who are to start in a new institution must start somewhere other than where they would otherwise have been intended. I don't think that's a lot of kids. For me, it is crucial that we ensure coherence in Denmark; that we ensure that we do not have parallel societies where there are kindergartens where there may be 60 per cent there, as the rapporteur's colleague mentioned earlier, in a day's institution. It does not provide a good basis for learning about Danish values, learning about Danish culture. We must put an end to this, and that is why we are pleased with the agreement that has been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174530	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174532	So you just have to conclude that it just doesn't matter about the 2%. children, and that is an unfortunate attitude. I would like to know whether the rapporteur, if he could choose for himself, would choose the local kindergarten for his child or a ghetto nursery.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174548	Well, what I am arguing for is that there should be no ghetto children's gardens, and I do not think it is possible to call a kindergarten where there is 30%. of the children who come from a socially disadvantaged residential area, a ghetto children's garden. So the whole point is precisely that we should not have these parallel children's gardens in the future, but that we should have mixed day institutions. And at any time I wish my future child would go to a day care institution where it also meets a child named Muhammad or Elisah.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174615	There is generally too high a noise level in the Parliamentary Chamber. You can confer and talk, but do it outside. The next question is Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174626	Thank you. I would like to ask you about the government's lack of ambition about offshore wind turbines. If we look towards the Netherlands, we can see that they have just proposed more than eight times as much compared to offshore wind turbines up to 2030. Should Denmark not, as a green leader nation, have higher ambitions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174651	Denmark must, of course, have high ambitions. That is also why we have proposed building one of the world's largest offshore wind farms of 800 MW. It's not enough, it's not gonna do it alone. That is what we have already decided towards 2022. Then we will have to expand with more after that. But offshore wind turbines aren't the only thing in this world that works. It's like we've been extremely focused on it. It should be borne in mind that we also set aside a great many billions to create a pool for technology-neutral tenders of 215 MW every year. So that way you can't just look at the individual technology form. But we need more than 800 MW, and there is no doubt about that in the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174732	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174736	We Social Democrats are not the only ones who do not think that this is not ambitious enough. Business is also talking about it. For example: says the wind turbine industry about the government's action in relation to sea winds: If the energy agreement results in Denmark hesitating to make concrete decisions,... then gamble there with Denmark's strength position as a green winning nation. ▪ Does that impress the Conservative rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174807	Well, I always listen to the wind turbine industry and have good cooperation with them on a daily basis. But it is also clear that the wind turbine industry wants as many wind turbines as possible. We also do that in the Conservative People's Party, but we have to do it in a socio-economically wise way where we spend the money at the times when we get the most green energy for the money. Right now there is much to suggest that we are going to pay too much by deciding everything now, whereas we can get more for our taxpayers' money by waiting until 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174837	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174840	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I'm a little concerned that there are a lot of young people in this country who have a lot of pain in their lives. And I was actually quite happy that our Prime Minister addressed it in his speech. I think this is something we need to do something about. We can see that more young people are being diagnosed with anxiety; in fact, I think it has tripled in a few years. There are more young people who suffer from depression, and in general there are more young people who are miserable. There is also a great survey by Politiken today that shows this. You can do two things to remedy this problem. One can prevent, and I think that it is a major debate, how to prevent young people from getting ill. But at least you can heal and make sure that they get the help they need. But for a lot of young people it is really expensive and it is not certain that their parents can afford to pay the help they need. If so, for example. is such that they have to go to the psychologist over a longer period of time, they can get subsidies if they are lucky. And subsidies don't cover the whole amount. Why does the rapporteur really think that it is reasonable if the rapporteur thinks that if you break your leg as a young person, you can get medical help, but if you get anxiety and the psyche breaks, you cannot get help?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530174956	Well, I think it's really nice that Mr. Simpson... Jacob Mark has focused on this issue, among others. in cooperation, I had almost said, with the Prime Minister, who also addressed it today. And that is something that we politicians need to take seriously. Young people with scars on their souls do not provide the best conditions for a bright future where you can become whole Danish fellow citizens. I am very pleased that 400 million were set aside for the last wage-pool agreement. kr. targeted psychiatry for e.g. children and adolescents. It's money that's well spent. But that does not mean that we are in the finish line, and that is why the government is going to come up with a proposal in relation to psychiatry. We're going to talk a lot more about it. The Minister of Health has set up this youth committee, young panel, which among other things. should also try to learn more about what the causes are for these young people to have wounds on their souls. But no, in principle I cannot justify why you have to pay if you have a heartache rather than if you have a sore neck.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175051	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175054	Thank you for the good answer. There are some municipalities that have introduced some form of free psychological assistance for young people, and then there are many different schemes. We put it in Køge, where I come from. What you have done in the young people's pool is for a very limited target group. It is also very important to provide free psychological assistance from 18 to 20 years now, but there are more young people than that. I noted that Stephanie Lose from the Left was out to say that at some point we have to work on providing free psychological assistance in general. You could start with young people. Could the Conservative People's Party see itself in an agreement one day when you simply do away with this and say that now there must be free psychological assistance if you need it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175133	Well, the Conservative People's Party could easily imagine that we are getting a much better health offer for young people who are struggling with anxiety and depression and are hurting their souls. It is, of course, a question of whether we can find the money for it. I do not know what it costs in crowns and ears, but I could imagine that it is still a little something that needs to be found. But if we can find a way to finance this which can be defended, so that we think it is worth the money, then there is no fundamental desire from the Conservative People's Party in any way that it should cost psychological help.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175202	Then it's mr. Per Husted, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175204	Thank you for the floor. It was a good bike ride we were on. I may have missed some North Jutland in that context. What I want to ask is something that most families of children and also future fathers and mothers, I assume, are very concerned about, and these are phthalates. I would like to ask the rapporteur how she views the removal of taxes on phthalates. The Danish EPA has described how a number of these problematic phthalates are documented or suspected to be endocrine disrupting and harmful to our reproductive capacity. Is the removal of these charges linked to the green profile and the consumer profile that the Conservatives would like to show us?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175256	I did not quite hear whether the questioner said North Jutland or North Zealand, but I think it was almost North Jutland. I would just like to say that we stopped both in Frederikshavn and in Hammer Bakker. So that's where we were, too. In relation to this issue of phthalates, it is clear that nothing should be allowed which poses a health hazard to people, and neither is there in Denmark. We have EU limit values to be complied with. This is, of course, very much an EU-regulated area, and I am pleased about that, because we are a large European market in which we trade with each other and where we must be able to be sure that the sucking or sucking bottles we buy from Germany or from the Netherlands are not harmful to our children too. So we are very pleased that this is regulated at European level. I do not believe that a Danish tax has much effect on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175346	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175347	That's right. The rapporteur was in North Jutland. I missed Himmerland, I should have said. However, is there still not a symbol value or signal value in that we are taking the lead precisely in such an area that is so important for our children in particular and then, of course, affects everything we can in the European Union? When the rapporteur thinks it is in the European Union, how does Conservatives view making an extra effort in the European Union in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175415	Well, this is something that is being regulated by the European Union. That is why I am also extremely pleased that Denmark plays a really strong role in pushing on at European level in this area. That is why I am also proud that the former Minister for the Environment managed to bring together all the parties of the Danish Parliament on a new chemical action plan, which among other things. As one of the focus areas, there has to be a strong voice in Brussels; there has to be a Danish lobbying to ensure that it is clarified much more quickly whether the substances we have also just suspected of being endocrine disruptors are harmful or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175449	Then it's mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175451	Thank you for an excellent rapporteur speech with cycling metaphors. That's what I like and understand myself. So I would like to ask about one of the great mountain stages we can look forward to here after the summer, not in the Tour de France, but here at Tinge, namely the climate negotiations. There I want to hear whether Conservatives will promise that climate negotiations will actually set climate targets so that Denmark can take the lead in meeting the Paris Agreement and keeping the global temperature increase below 11⁄2 degrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175535	I was just afraid that I would have to go out and learn about cycling, because my knowledge probably goes to the metaphors I've fired from here. However, the rapporteur asks about the negotiations we will have after the summer break about a new climate plan. I cannot stand here and promise that there will be a climate target. We have no problem with that in the Conservative People's Party. We supported as the only bourgeois party the targets of the previous government for 2020 and the 40-percent reduction target there. This also means that there are a large number of other bourgeois parties that do not want climate targets, but which set much more targets in the green area, for example for the share of renewable energy. Of course, there will be a climate initiative which also has objectives. But fortunately, there are also many other types of objectives that can be of value, among others. for the transport sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175634	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175635	After all, the Paris Agreement means that Denmark must accept just as much CO 2 Enhedslisten has ambitions to do so before. But by 2050 at the latest is what we have promised. With the government's current level of ambition, we are nowhere near being able to achieve it, so I would like to know what the Conservatives will do when I cannot get a promise that the climate negotiations will result in something that does something on CO2 What will the Conservatives do to achieve our goal in relation to the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175720	Of course, a climate plan has to reduce CO2 I was specifically asked into a climate target and there was my answer more dismissive. But, of course, the transport sector must be reduced, for example, and that is why, on the other day, we, the Conservatives, repeated the proposal we have made earlier on for green company car taxation. We know that the company cars are some of those that drive a lot of miles on the roads, and we know that the incentive to make green purchases is not present today, so it will be an obvious place to join forces with efforts in relation to the other car park.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175754	Then it's mr. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175757	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur for his speech, and thank you for a quick, frantic distribution of sweaters. But I'm sure there's a party in the government that thinks they deserved the mountain sweater for a quick ascension, even if they quickly fell down again. You promised from the government in your energy project that you would build an ocean wind farm of 800 MW. The rapporteur knows that we think it is unambitious. That is why I was very pleased when I saw that on 22 April the rapporteur on Twitter wrote that Conservatives wanted three wind farms by 2030. Can the rapporteur here today promise that this will happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175855	Well, there is no contradiction at all between what I wrote on Twitter that the Conservative People's Party means and what is the position of the government. The government has already announced that there will be one large offshore wind farm, and that in 2022 we will have to decide how much extra needs to be developed in relation to offshore wind turbines. Nor does it make sense to compare the social democracy and government's approach to offshore wind turbines, for the Social Democracy aims at 2030, and the government aims at 2022, where further decisions need to be taken. So it is in every possible way completely connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175929	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175930	Well, I am very pleased that Conservatives' rapporteur is now promising that it will come at a faster pace than what the rapporteur has written. So we look forward to supporting it when you get it through the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530175948	Well, we have to assess by 2022 how much more sea wind will come. It may also be that something completely groundbreaking is happening in relation to landwind, which makes it suddenly make better sense for us to expand with more landwind than otherwise; so I know there are other parties in the Folketing who have no desire, parties which, among other things, have no desire. The social democracy usually cooperates closely with that, but I promise there is no green space when it comes to this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530180011	The last question in this round is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530180015	I'm sitting here getting a little bit of a picture that the Conservatives were greener before they came into government. I can well miss the bourgeois green voice that the Conservatives had before they came into government, I may miss the fact that there had also just been an e-bike in the speech that could point a little more into the future, and I think it is a pity that we seem to be wasting some chances. The short-term economy is being weighed so high in the government that I think there are some green opportunities that are being neglected. The rapporteur praises, for example: This technology-neutral supply, and I have to say that we have had a long process in which we have clarified that we could get more for the money if we chose a different form of supply, where there would then be a small risk that the Minister of Finance would not sleep so well at night, but I think we should live with that. One could, in fact, land on a solution where one got more green energy for the money if one had chosen a different type of supply than that which has landed. Can the rapporteur not see that there are many things in this proposal for an agreement that could be much better and that could be much greener?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530180124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530180125	I do not think there would have been a much better and far more ambitious initiative from the government if the Conservative People's Party had not been a part of it. I am quite proud of the green results we have delivered during the year we have been part of the government. We will have a stop to the exploration of oil and gas on land and inland waters; a goal that by 2030 all coal production will have to be phased out for electricity use; a goal that at least 50 per cent. of Denmark's energy needs by 2030 must be covered by renewable energy; and a goal that by 2050 Denmark will be a low-carbon society. These are all the results that we have helped to achieve because we have entered the working space of a government. Now we have put forward an energy proposal which in many, many ways extends far into the future and which gives green results, green solutions, but of course there is also room for negotiation, that would be strange other, and that would be boring other. And then I fully agree that economic risk-taking is greater with the Enhedslisten than it is with the government, but I am delighted that among other things. the economic wise men have been supporting the choices made by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530180231	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530180232	Yes, it is a free round if you want to stop the search for fossil fuels on land after you have found that you can't find anything in the underground. I think that, after the whole debate here today, the red bloc is going for a climate and blue bloc is going for a refugee election, and I think it is really a pity if the Conservatives end up supporting the idea that it will be a refugee election and not a climate election. I would like to ask the rapporteur now, when reference was made to who you are listening to, if it would not be good for the government to listen more closely to the recommendations that come from the Climate Council, as indeed blah. has recommended that there should be a CO2 has recommended how many electric cars we should have by 2030. Does the rapporteur not see more sense in listening to the Climate Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530180319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530180321	Well, we very much appreciate the input that comes from the Climate Council. It was also something that Conservatives at the time supported was established as part of the Climate Act under the previous government, and we are also happy to listen to them when we have to make our climate plan. It comes after the summer holidays, and there we will address a large number of questions, among others. in relation to the transport sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530180343	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Now there has been debate well and bravely for many hours, so now everyone needs a meal break and it's coming. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530190213	The sitting is resumed. From a member of the Danish Parliament Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, I have received notification that he will not be able to rejoin as a member anyway, as announced earlier today. Jette Gottliebs (EL) therefore continues as a temporary member of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530190234	We shall now proceed with Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party And I understand that this is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530190246	Thank you very much. Today, we will conclude the last full parliamentary year of this parliamentary term. That is why I would also like to take this opportunity to make a number of personal observations which not only look back at this parliamentary year but at the entire parliamentary term. First of all, I have a great deal of respect for democracy and I also have a great deal of respect for my fellow Members of Parliament. Many viewers may see a half-empty or almost empty Parliamentary Hall, but it is also important to remember that a large part of the legwork takes place in the committees, in the parties and not least outside Christiansborg's walls. My point is that it is not only when the camera is on that we are working; it is, in my view, the smallest effort that the rolling cameras catch. It can be said that the overall political effort is helping to produce political results and making a difference for the people we represent, and that is what this is all about. Our policy must be felt in everyday life out there in reality. When I was elected as a new member of parliament in 2015 to represent Inuit Ataqatigiit and Greenland, it was immensely overwhelming, and that is because there is a great obligation to represent your country on the basis of the abilities you now have. In time, however, this also led to some amazement, and my wonder is related to the role of Greenlandic MP, because in 2015 the North Atlantic members were not in central negotiations, in conciliation, in important political agreements, and I saw that we were often met by a wall. That is why I think it is important to bear in mind that during the parliamentary term there have been historic improvements for the political representation of Greenland. We are taking part in key negotiations, we are partly taking part in conciliation and we are participating in important political agreements. This does not always happen directly, but all in all it has a huge impact on the Greenlandic population. This has also become a new reality, one can say, and I think that is important to recognise. That is why I would also like to extend a great deal of thanks to the government, to the Prime Minister and to the parties of the Danish Parliament for listening when we speak Greenland's case. Since 2013, the number of Greenlanders resident in Denmark has increased significantly. On average, there are pr. years moved almost 300 Greenlanders to Denmark, and in a Danish context it may not sound like much, but the last decade 3,000 Greenlanders have moved from Greenland to Denmark. It also means that it is a quarter of all those born in Greenland who today live outside the country's borders. This should be of particular concern to Greenland. I foresee that the group of Greenlanders in Denmark in the coming years will not be smaller, but larger, and this is because we in Greenland have not solved the fundamental challenges such as the need for increased growth and industrial development, that we have not strengthened the primary school, which we need very much, and not least that we have not done away with a political debate tone in which everyone who is not judged Greenlandic enough will be judged out. For Inuit Ataqatigiit, the key policy areas are to be solved in Greenlandic society, but unfortunately we do not see any action that will enable this to be resolved sufficiently over the next four years. Then it can be said that, if possible, more Greenlanders in Denmark make our work in the Danish Parliament and, above all, in the Greenland Houses even more important. Greenlanders in Denmark demand stronger representation, and it is not only the socially vulnerable, but also the many well-functioning Greenlanders who are in Denmark. I would like us to work for even more well-functioning Greenlanders in Denmark, and therefore Inuit Ataqatigiit recommends that we sharpen our efforts to get more Greenlanders through education in Denmark, to get those who have chosen to settle here in Denmark into the labour market and to ensure that they have the right tools to do so. In addition to the many voluntary forces, the many good forces that are around the country, among others. In the Greenland Houses, I would also like to see the representation of Greenlanders strengthened, both in voluntary forums, but also in political forums. I therefore hope that several Greenlanders who have chosen to settle in Denmark will stand for local elections, regional elections and local representation. And in the same way, we in Inuit Ataqatigiits believe that it is appropriate to examine the possibility that Greenlanders in Denmark will be able to vote when elections are held in Greenland. This applies both when there are elections to Inatsisartut, but it is also very relevant when there are elections to the Folketing. Something that has been very clear to me in my time in the Folketing is that Greenland is fighting for a place on the political agenda. Greenlandic MPs can help to strengthen the representation of Greenland and put Greenland on the agenda, but we also know that in a democracy it is the majority that applies. Many of my colleagues who sit in here may even have Greenlandic voters around Denmark, but how much does this agenda fill their daily lives? With regard to the Kingdom Community, I would like to say that the Kingdom Community must be developed in order to be preserved. I think that is a fact to which we in the Folketing must relate. On the Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we would like to see a community of kingdoms developed towards more equality and a common understanding between each other not only at a political level, but also at a social and cultural level. We believe it is important that in this Parliament we work side by side at political level to solve the common challenges that we have. In other words, even more involvement is needed and we are working towards a more equal decision-making power, including between Greenland and Denmark, in these 32 areas. For this to happen, it is a prerequisite that Danish and Greenlandic citizens live with each other in respect. It is also important that all the citizens of the kingdom know about our common history, our common present and our common culture. We would like there to be closer cooperation in the field of business where it makes sense for both countries. Greenland needs an increased view, even when we look beyond the Kingdom Community. It is therefore important to emphasise that Greenland's foreign policy interests are also contributing to increasing trade efforts. From Inuit Ataqatigiits side we will come up with an initiative in the autumn in relation to a modern kingdom community in development, a kingdom community for the benefit of all. With these words, I would like to thank you for the parliamentary year. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and I would like to thank the government, the parties of the Folketing and my good colleagues for the parliamentary year that has passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191051	Thank you. Then there are some brief comments. Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191057	Thank you. The rapporteur talked a lot about having to go through a successful course of education in Denmark. I very much agree with that and, as a teaching rapporteur, I often talk to the Afterschool Association. It is the case that we have many Greenlandic children who come to Denmark for a post-school stay. They do so because they have to learn Danish or because they have to have a degree so they can get further education or because they live in a settlement where they cannot go in the superstructure. Then there are strong forces in Greenland who say that English should be the first second language. How does the rapporteur view the possibility of these children coming to Denmark if they have not had Danish at any time, but only had Greenlandic and English as the first second language? What does it look like when it comes to getting a successful everyday life and education in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191153	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191155	Thank you very much for the question. We also had the opportunity to discuss it when we had a Community debate here a few days ago. I think it is important that you also have the opportunity to learn Danish in Greenland. I will try to say this as clearly as possible, because I understand the need to learn English and to strengthen efforts to learn English for Greenlandic schoolchildren, there is no doubt about that. We just need to be aware of the opportunities that exist today where you can take an education in Denmark. There are some options that I find difficult to see they can get anywhere else on the same terms. That is why I think it is important to have an interest in the fact that we also have Danish education in Greenland and also give it priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191239	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191242	Thank you for that answer. I fully agree with the rapporteur. I think it is important that you also learn Danish in Greenland. It is the case that many of these host families, as there are, also when you have a post-school stay in Denmark, prefer students who at least have some Danish language when they come to the country. Does the rapporteur not believe that finding enough host families in the future can be a problem if it is the case that you cannot Danish at all when you come?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191312	Thank you very much. I know that several people have expressed concern about this re-prioritisation, and I also know that a group of experts has spoken and some of the recommendations have been ignored. I think that we should look at the overall picture and take the debate in Greenland. Part of the process is to come to a family and then learn Danish. And one thing is what you can learn in a school, another is being part of a family and thus learning the language. I believe that this is extremely important, even in the future. I know from many of these afterschool children that it is really important that they have a family, and that there is, like, a secure framework, you can say about it, because you are a lot out of the way literally when you come as a student Greenlander here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191356	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191400	I shall continue a little along the same lines as my honourable colleague Mrs Annette Lind, namely on the Danish language. About a quarter of all citizens in Greenland are of Danish origin and speak almost only Danish, and then there are a large number of mixed marriages. Most Greenlanders are somehow mixed up with Danish citizens. Therefore, it may be surprising when you see it from Denmark that you choose to give priority to English, since in a way Danish is the prerequisite for Greenland's functioning, that the cooperation between Greenland and Denmark works, and that you have the opportunity, not least from Greenland's side, to benefit from the many good things that Denmark can offer. So I would really like the rapporteur to be a little more precise: does the rapporteur agree with the priorities of the Greenland Government when it comes to Danish, English and Greenlandic?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191507	Thank you very much. Now it is the case that Inuit Ataqatigiit is in opposition after the elections. It is a very narrow government, or what to say it is a government with a very narrow majority that we have in Greenland, and there is a need for a debate on it here in Greenland. I do not think that this is something that we should take up too much here, but I have expressed my own position and I think that we need to ensure that there are some educational opportunities. One of the things I hear is that one can also take an education in English in Denmark, and one of the things I pointed out when we had the Community debate a few days ago was that one cannot read medicine, that one cannot read law, that one cannot read psychology, for example, and that is also some competences that we will need in Greenlandic society in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191553	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191554	But is it not the solution that the Greenland Government and the new majority are committed to improving Danish education when it lags behind, and when Danish education and the Danish language are the key to improving conditions in Greenland? English isn't. English must of course be a secondary foreign language, as it is in many ways also in Denmark. So why is it that the rapporteur is a little bit psyched and will not attack the priorities of the Greenland Government? I simply do not quite understand that, because the citizens of Greenland are being let down.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191635	Thank you very much. I do not think I am vague in my wording. I think I have gone quite a long way in saying what my personal opinion is, namely that I am concerned that Danish is being downgraded. My experience with Greenlandic politics is also that it takes a really, very long time before these things really get into play, and I think it is important that there is a discussion in Greenland about what you really want to do. And there I certainly hope that some of the things that have also been mentioned today will be considered in that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191705	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191706	Thank you. This may come as a surprise to the rapporteur, but I would like to continue in the same vein, namely the importance of the Danish language in Greenland. Before doing so, however, I would like to thank the rapporteur for our very, very good and productive cooperation. I was also pleased to hear the rapporteur's comment that the Commonwealth must be developed in order to be preserved. I think that is the right view, regardless of whether you are for or against independence, because a strengthened Kingdom community is for the benefit of all. I know that the rapporteur has fought hard to strengthen the area of justice, and indeed we have done so during this period of government, and I know the rapporteur's efforts in favour of Greenlanders. And I was glad that yesterday the Ministry of Education could announce that we are coming with a pool of 21⁄2 million. kr. for extra Danish teaching to native Greenlanders to ensure that it is not something that will be weakened. Then I come to what I would like to ask, namely Danish in Greenland. For I believe that as well as that native Greenlanders • Greenlanders who move here • have challenges with Danish and that is something that weakens their opportunities for development in Denmark, it is a problem for young Greenlanders to go from primary school to secondary school where the language is Danish. Let me sum up by asking: does the rapporteur agree that it is more important to prioritise Danish as a language in Greenland than it is to promote the downgrade of Danish in Greenland because of this populist independence movement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191846	Speaking time has passed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191848	Thank you very much. In order not to risk putting some words in my mouth, I would like to put it my own way instead of just saying yes or no. Because I think it is important to give priority to Greenlandic in Greenland. It goes without saying that it is an important language to be able to speak in one's own society. I'm really sorry I can't do it. I also think it is really important to prioritise Danish forward-looking, there is no doubt at all about that. It is true that when you go to university or in education in general, it is of course important to know Danish, but also to know English. I would like the language area to be strengthened in general in Greenland, and it is indeed the case that we demand that our young people should be able to speak three languages, and that is a real challenge in practice. But I want to say that I still think that we should stick to this Danish thing. Finally, I would also like to thank you very much for your cooperation. It is really, really important that we can help to achieve concrete results, because that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191954	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530191955	First of all, to clarify: it was by no means to say that priority should be given to the Greenlandic language. I think Greenlandic as a mother tongue and the primary language speak for themselves, and I think that our Faroese colleagues are actually a very good example of this, because there you have a very good experience of preserving Faroese as your mother tongue, but at the same time having Danish at such a high level that very many young couples move on to high school and then to a higher education in Denmark and, of course, next to it learn English. Should it not be the goal in Greenland that you have Greenlandic as the primary mother tongue, Danish as something you use at such a high level that you can go further and educate yourself, and then English next to it as a third language?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192044	Yes, I personally agree with that. What my party as a whole thinks should I not be able to say, because I have not had the opportunity to discuss this with them. What I can see is that the Greenlandic houses report back that there are a lot of Greenlandic students who find it difficult because they are not good enough for Danish when they study in Denmark. That is why I have also called for consultation, precisely to see what we can do, including by the Danish Parliament, to support them. And then there is no doubt that Greenland has a huge responsibility to ensure that our young people have some basic skills. We know that there are challenges in relation to mathematics, in relation to Danish and in relation to English for a rather large group of those leaving primary school. And that is why we say it is important that we strengthen the primary school in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192130	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192132	Thank you. And also thank you for your fruitful cooperation. I think this is a very good period we have been through in the last year. Interest in Greenland and the Faroe Islands has increased dramatically. Everyone takes a much more active part in the debates on the Kingdom Community and such things, and I think that is a good thing. Within one week we have now had a more than 5 hours long debate on the Kingdom Community, after all, that was a record. In addition to that, yesterday we had a rather extensive and very thorough debate on Camp Century and American pollution. So I think we're in a really good gang. One of the problems that I think must be greatest if you live in Greenland is the economy, namely that the talk of independence is also based on a genuinely independent economy. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether she and her party have the opportunity to come up with some visions about which way Greenland should go if at some point you are to have an economy that can bear independence.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192232	Thank you very much to the questioner and thank you for your good cooperation. It also shows that we are Greenland's free voice, and that we work together broadly with several different parties here in the Folketing. However, this is an important prerequisite for achieving results. I would just like to say a few words about the Kingdom Community and the development of the Kingdom Community, because that is what I think is interesting in the short term. We often see these historical matters, which also have such a slightly negative light on them: Camp Century, Pituffik, many of these foreign policy matters, where there is some secrecy and some uncertainty about what has actually happened. I would really like us to replace it with something positive and some new stories that we can work together. And that requires that we give and take each one, so I hope we can look forward to that. As far as independence is concerned, I think that this is about business development. It is about increasing growth in Greenland, and something we have worked for is an Arctic investment fund, which has been rejected in the first place, but which we will continue to work on in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192339	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192341	I had the feeling that a lot of people would sign up to it, but you have nothing concrete. Could it not be that the Greenlandic politicians here in the Folketing, together with Greenlanders from the government in Greenland, sat down with this government and said: Now there has to be concrete talk so that you actually got on with it? Because I believe that, of course, there must be a fund that can be used if we are to have realistic investments in Greenland and have to move on, not only to airports, but also to, for example, airports. developing fisheries and developing tourism. Then there will have to be a basis for moving on. I think we all owe each other that it shouldn't just be talk. Now we've been talking about these funds for two years, and now there's gonna be reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192423	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192425	Thank you very much. This requires political goodwill on the part of Greenland, one can say, so that is one of the things I will try to work on. After all, the business area has been taken home. But I still think we shouldn't give up. After all, there was a cooperation across Greenland and Denmark a few years ago, where you just looked at how we could remove some of the barriers that are to increase exports from Greenland and increase trade. I think we should take that up again, it has been many years since then. It might be interesting to see whether a new Commission or a report could be made with some recommendations on how we could help to increase cross-border business cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192506	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192510	Thank you. Thank you, too, for your speech to the rapporteur. I would like to focus a little more on the subject of language, even though on Friday we may have had a rather long question debate, where language also filled a great deal. In his speech this evening, the rapporteur said that, in a democracy, the majority counts. The reason why I take note of this is that I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it might perhaps be a more local majority, which could determine which language there was a second language, and whether one could imagine that the individual municipality in Greenland, if a majority there wanted Danish as a first foreign language in Greenland, could then decide, or perhaps that each school board should actually be allowed to decide for itself which language would come after Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192603	Thank you very much. I would say that in that case it should be up to Inatsisartut to decide exactly what decision-making power should be. We have a really strong opposition in Greenland with Inuit Ataqatigiit and with the Democrats, and I know that there are a lot of sensible people sitting there who also want to play a part in fighting for a sensible solution. There is no doubt that there is a need to strengthen language teaching in general in Greenland, it shows the results, it also applies when we speak Danish, and it has become a greater and greater challenge over the last few years for Greenlandic students who choose to come here. So it's a challenge in itself, I think. And then there is a very long way to go to say that we can give practical priority to the English language. This is one of the points that IMAK, the teachers' association, has made. So there must be first a political discussion in Greenland on how to prioritise it. I know there will be a very strong opposition that will try to fight for some sensible solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192659	Here you go, sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192701	Thank you. I'm about to let the language rest, if I may say so. In his speech, the rapporteur mentioned this with the common present and common history of the Kingdom Community, and that is where I think the language takes up a great deal. However, in my opinion, the rapporteur perhaps forgot to talk about the future, because there could also be quite a decisive language. However, I would like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to attach a few words to the economy and the future economic situation of Greenland and the people of Greenland in the event of increased autonomy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192740	Thank you very much. I have, of course, pointed to this point in the debate on the Danish Communist Party that we are spending 3 billion. kr. in the social field, and 3 billion. kr. in a society with 56,000 people to the social area is really, very much money. I really think it might be interesting to have a discussion in Greenland about whether we have taken over a welfare system that we have not been good enough to manage, i.e., we have actually come to client make a lot of our citizens. This is a discussion that I think is interesting, because I also have a professional starting point in the discussion. It is interesting to look it up against a block grant of 3.8 billion. kr. A year, for how can it be that we spend so much on social matters without seeing the results we need to see? For that would be a good thing in relation to education and the social area, the area of justice, for that matter too, if we solved some of the social problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192839	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192843	Thank you very much. Thank you for your speech, of course, but also thank you for the cooperation that we have here in the Danish Parliament and which I very, very much appreciate, because it gives me some other dimensions of the Kingdom community than I necessarily have in my daily work in here. I think it has been interesting to follow the debate on languages in here today, and I think it is a little bit more than just language as a practical one, because I think it is also a lot about languages such as the cultural one. That is why I am a little curious when the rapporteur talks about the future of the Kingdom Community and a more equal kingdom community, whether the rapporteur sees Greenlandic and Faroese culture playing a greater role in the Kingdom Community, among other things. Here, too, in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192925	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530192927	Thank you very much. I really think that Greenland and Greenlanders who are in Denmark help to make Denmark bigger, make the kingdom community bigger. This helps to create a more rich society, a more culturally rich society and also a more diverse society. So we also contribute to the overall picture of Denmark, and in this way we contribute to Danish society and to the kingdom community. So I think there is a need at a concrete level to ensure that. There are some of us who want to gather the threads because we are a kingdom community, and we will be for a number of years to come, so let us be comfortable in the time we are together. I have experienced during the debate on independence in Greenland that the more the skies it became, the more it looked like a relationship where one party, and it was Greenland, had almost a leg on its way out of the door, and this makes the other party perhaps a little more unengaged and has difficulty in seeing why the sour there should be a lot of time spent on lifting these 32 areas and we need to have a kingdom community that works well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193033	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193035	Something I have discussed with the rapporteur several times has been the whole of art and culture more like a field and how there could be closer cooperation there. I would really like to hear something more, because I just think it is symptomatic of the debate that we have here that we are suddenly very concerned about an internal Greenlandic debate on foreign languages. All of a sudden, we take it a lot on ourselves as if it is the most important area. I'm a little curious about this very thing with the equivalence of how we can be in a kingdom community together, and what initiatives there are also about this diversity in the Danish art and culture world in terms of Greenlandic art and culture, which is stronger and stronger year by year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193119	Thank you very much. I know there is a very ambitious project along the way, which is about making Greenlandic art visible on Louisiana, because it helps to kick doors into other places in New York and elsewhere around the world. I really think that I see an advantage in that, if we work together, we can also help to create opportunities together. I see the same thing in the movie area. I think it is really interesting because I think that movies can burn Greenland much more than some brochure about how exciting Greenland is as a tourist destination. So I think the use of culture as a lever to create opportunities in business, too, and see it as part of some foreign policy, some trade policy, are some very interesting and inspiring ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193209	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193213	Many of us followed the Greenlandic election with interest and the Greenlandic election campaign and also, as Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has mentioned several times, the debate on independence. At one point it struck me that in its own way it was actually a replica of electoral campaigns which they conducted all over the globe, namely that it was, like, confidence in the future or confidence that one was master of one's own destiny, which was somehow behind it. And in discussion with Mr. Christian Juhl before, when it came to the economy of the future of the Kingdom, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen replied that it was important to have a counter-tell so that it was not always the negative cases that marked it. Perhaps I would like to ask a little more openly about this: What is it in some places that the discussion about what is going to happen in the long term could possibly be done, so you got a feeling, no matter what you think about independence in Greenland, that we are actually master of our own destiny?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193322	That is a very interesting question, and thank you very much for that. After all, it is both about foreign policy and about feeling that you are being involved, and it is about increasing involvement in relation to decision-making, so perhaps Greenland will get a little more in on some of the decisions that are being put forward by Denmark. I also think it is important to say that there are quite a lot of positive stories that might not always get home to Greenland. If you look at the statement, which came from the Prime Minister's Office, there are quite a lot of things, perhaps small, smaller things, we achieve here in the Folketing, which are positive stories in the short run. But I often experience that it will be so much the historical that is going to fill. I would really like us to be better at drawing a line in the sand and saying: okay, how can we further develop it too? For it is actually something more constructive and positive, and there is a better energy in it than there is in constantly looking backwards and saying that in the 1950s or 1960s there were perhaps some negative stories. But we want to help create a better future, a better Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193431	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193433	When I have this discussion in such a broader context, what is it that makes people react as they do around? ensure that all pupils gain confidence in their own opportunities in the society in which they are to live. I think that it may also be some of the things that it is about, in other words, where it is not only foreign policy and the things that one somehow hears about via others, but that it is also very much about the things that are close and close. What are my options? Can I see a way forward in this community where I'm the one who decides what to do and where to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193520	I will divide my answer into two. One is about the confidence of Greenlanders to be able to see opportunities in their own society, and I think it is important to remember that there are a lot of people who have completed primary school or may have completed without having received a degree, but who experience that there are not very many opportunities in their own society because it is difficult for them to get an education. Here, languages and professional competences are one of the challenges that many encounter. So I think it is a separate issue that Greenland should be very concerned about, i.e. to create some opportunities for their own in their own society. The second is about the kingdom community, and it is also about having a confidence that you have a place in Denmark, if this is where you choose to settle or at least in the kingdom community, even if you live in Greenland. And there I think there is still a great task to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193610	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193615	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for this day-to-day cooperation. Then, as others have also remarked, I could use a very beautiful wording from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, who says that the Commonwealth must be developed in order to be preserved. I also noticed here in reply to Mr. Morten Østergaard, that precisely the will to say that now we are putting a line for some things with which both parties have made mistakes over the years. I find that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has been so concerned about getting a positive definition of the community of the future and not that which is reproaching on both sides. But could Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen try to put up some more pointers that will define the Kingdom community in positive terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193658	Thank you very much. It is, of course, a major discussion, and it may be difficult to answer everything in one minute, but I will try to make some offers. I still think that this Arctic investment fund is a bid; it could also be part of a dialogue that part of the block grant was included in an investment fund or in something that is at least an investment in the future in Greenland, because that is some of what I think has some interesting perspectives. Greenland needs to create some growth and manage the few challenges in the field of education and social affairs. After all, this 10 million has been set aside. kr. to strengthen conditions for children and young people in Greenland, and it is of course interesting to see how it should look forward. Is it like what the Folketing has chosen to contribute? It's a haunted area, and then Greenland's gonna have to take care of the rest. At any rate, I believe that there are a great many people in here who are still preoccupied with the conditions under which children and young people live. I think it might be interesting to ensure the right to vote for Greenlanders who still have a connection with Greenland but who have chosen to settle for a shorter or longer period in Denmark. I think we need to look a little more at some flexible arrangements... it could be voting for a Greenlandic MP in the next parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193817	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193819	The road to independence for Greenland must be more and more steps where you become more and more independent. Since the 2009 Self-Government Act, no further areas have been taken home, and 32 areas are still being dealt with from Denmark. How does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen view the possibility of taking back more of the 32 areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193844	Thank you very much for the question. I really think that when I'm home in Greenland, I find that there are 20 definitions of what independence really is. I spoke to a candidate for the Inatsisartut election and asked the person if one can really just replace self-government with free association and then say that we are self-employed. Is that satisfactory? And then he said, yes, because then something happens. It was a person from another party, and I was a little puzzled, because it can be said that it does not really mean much, because we are not more independent as a starting point. We have not taken back any more areas; we have not managed the economy; we have not managed some of the basic things that are also needed. So I think there is a need to find out what we really mean when we talk about independence in Greenland. In any case, I would like to follow that forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193936	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530193939	Thank you. In fact, I would also like to start by giving a great deal of praise to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and hope that she can take so much credit from all the parties here. But I do, because I think it is actually unusual that we have a member of parliament from Greenland who is so committed to so many matters here in the Folketing and is really trying to get as many prints as possible in the areas that are important to Greenland. Rosen also applies here from the bourgeois camp, and we very much appreciate it, although I probably shouldn't say it, because of course we are hoping for a blue mandate from Greenland at some point. However, I think that right should be right, and I would like to commend it. I think it is a little unreasonable to attack Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for language policy, which she does not support, so I will wait to do so for the next Greenland parliamentarian. However, I would like to ask whether there are more things we can do in the field of defence. We got many things on Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's initiative in the defence settlement. Are there any other initiatives that Greenland would like to take for the benefit of Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194042	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194044	Thank you very much to the questioner, and thank you in the same way for the good cooperation. Sometimes I hear that people are also worried about how I handle it when I get these negative comments, but fortunately I get a lot of good comments, and some of the best I can get are when I hear that I am the best representative that Greenland has had in the Folketing. It's amazing to get such support from home. However, it is also nice to have the support of this House. In relation to the defence, a defence settlement has been concluded which also helps to strengthen the defence in Greenland with what is equivalent to approx. 1 billion kr., and that's a huge amount of money. Civil society education thinks I'm really interesting. Now we have some money set aside for an emergency training programme in Greenland. I think it is important that we work in a strategic and long-term way to ensure greater involvement of Greenlanders in defence tasks. We see it in the field of police and justice and in other areas, and I think it is quite the right way to go to ensure greater involvement of Greenlanders in the tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194153	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194158	Thank you. I have noticed that it is very often the negative stories that find their way to the Danish media when you get notifications about what is going on in Greenland, and rarely the positive stories. One of the stories that have filled a lot in the past has been the history of failure of children, abused children, children who go for lye and cold water. And then I just want to ask whether Inuit Ataqatigiit has a plan, an attitude, an idea of how to deal with that problem. Because it is very important for the confidence that can be gained in Denmark that Greenland can do it itself and that the Greenlanders can do it themselves. So it is really important to know the initiatives that will be taken to solve this type of problem. It is something that affects much in the ordinary Danish consciousness, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194250	Thank you very much for the question. I gave a presentation to the Association of Greenlandic Children yesterday and answered exactly the same question. I think it is very much about reversing the efforts that we have in Greenland. In many ways it is built around a Nordic welfare system. Our legislation, which we have chosen to make ourselves and for which we have been responsible for almost 40 years, is very similar to Danish legislation and Nordic legislation in the social field. I think there is a need to focus on early action, on the 0-2-year-olds, on prevention. I think that's where we can make a real, real big difference. I think we need to really turn this area around, because it is extremely incalculable sometimes when you have it. I myself have been responsible for this area in Kommuneqarfik Sermersooq, of which Tasiilaq is a part. It was one of the cities mentioned in the article in Weekendavisen, and unfortunately it is a very recognizable picture. This is a really big challenge in Greenlandic society. I think you have to spend the money you spend in a whole different way if you ask me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194403	Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194406	Thank you. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the cooperation which the rapporteur is a large part of here in the Danish Parliament. Now it is the case that Greenland has a huge geography, and there are both towns and villages, boats in the east and west and north and south. For the young people in the settlements it can be difficult to have contact in the world, and it can be some of the things that make it difficult to be young in the settlements too. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur what it is like with the Internet in Greenland. How widespread is it? How well does it work? And are there any things that should change in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194454	Thank you very much for the question. After all, it is a Greenlandic matter and to reply very briefly: the Internet is very expensive. There are also a lot of people who cannot afford what may just go on and then have to log off. In some places you have 3G, in others you have 4G, so it is very different which access there is to good and accessible internet around Greenland. I have said many times that I think digital infrastructure is almost as important as physical infrastructure, and in many ways many in Greenland are just as dependent on being on the web and having those opportunities. I know that it is also a challenge for municipalities around Greenland to make ordinary day-to-day management work together because internet access is not as good.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194544	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194547	In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that it was worrying that there are so many Greenlanders who choose to move away from Greenland and mainly move to Denmark. What exactly does the rapporteur think it is necessary for this traffic to start going the other way again, i.e. that the Greenlanders come home to Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194615	Personally, I think it is a great deal about a political debate tone. I think it is important that there is room for everyone in Greenlandic society, also for those who are Danish and come from elsewhere. I think it means a lot. Then I think that this whole elementary school thing really means a lot. When your children grow up, you are concerned that primary school is good and offers good opportunities for education for your children. There was a leader from the social workers who at one point said that it was just difficult to get social workers to Tasiilaq, and one of the concerns was that you really wanted a job for your husband or woman if it was, and that you really wanted the primary school to be good for your children. That's how we think like people. It's about basics. It is also about creating jobs in Greenland. It is also about increasing growth in Greenland. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194721	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194724	Thank you and thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech and thank you very much for your cooperation in the day-to-day work that I appreciate very much. What I want to ask specifically is the agreement that has been reached here and now, among a large, broad circle of parties, including the alternative, on criminal justice. After all, a prison is being built in Greenland, and the idea is that the imprisoned Greenlanders who sit here in Denmark are going to Greenland. One of the things I have been thinking about on this occasion is the need for the staff to be recruited in this context • social workers, prison officers etc. Now I do not know how much the rapporteur is involved in this or whether the rapporteur can comment on what needs to be done to find the right staff in Greenland. This is important because it is a very difficult group, one can say that comes back to Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194834	Thank you very much. It can be said that those who are already sitting on, among other things. the asylum in Nuuk, but also elsewhere around, really also requires really, very much. We've got some asylum officers who get 5,000 kroner. less in salary per month than the Danish prison officers. That is why there are some unfair terms of pay that I think need to be taken into account. In the asylum in Nuuk there are 17 out of the 29 norms that are occupied. This is already a cause for concern to this day. When we know that, of course, there must be even more employees in the new institution and, as a result, we need even more competences, even more tools to deal with people who have been sentenced to detention, I am concerned that we have enough asylum officers. In addition, of course, there is also the need for psychologists, psychiatrists, employment consultants and social workers. It is a concern and it will be a difficult task. Right now, it's a lot about the physical framework. I also think it is important to talk about human resources. For it is those who, in everyday life, help to ensure that we are working precisely towards rehabilitation, which is a goal in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530194943	There are no further comments, so thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530195000	Thank you very much. The parliamentary year has brought with it many important issues. Agreements have been made that have consequences for our everyday lives. Conciliation has been reached and discussions have been held back and forth, including about the Kingdom Community. You see a great interest in following the process of independence that we have at home in Greenland, a process that I sense has caused a great deal of concern in this Parliament. I would just like to mention a few examples that concern my fellow Members in this Chamber. That's when it's, among other things. is about whether the new coalition in Greenland will make English the first foreign language. And it is about Chinese investment interests in our planned airport buildings. We must always ask critical questions about the issues that concern us. This applies not only to concerns on the Danish side, but also to concerns on the Greenland side. The vast majority of parties in this Chamber support and have adopted the Self-Government Act. The Self-Government Act is today the law that sets the framework for the whole process of independence between Greenland and Denmark. This year we have once again put Camp Century on the agenda. Gradually, the whole Camp Century affair is filling a lot in the political life of the whole Kingdom community, but also at international level. It's a story that unfortunately refuses to stop. Only yesterday we had an open consultation with the Secretary of State on Camp Century. New information keeps coming up. The Foreign Minister could say yesterday that Camp Century is now called a defence/research project. This means that a clarification of the international responsibility for the clean-up of American military remains is being drawn up. Never let it be okay for the Kingdom community to let the Americans leave their waste in the wild with Danish blessing. Never let it be okay for the Kingdom community to go through a long political fight to get answers to what the Danishs have actually allowed the Americans to do by activities on the ice, activities that have resulted in mobile nuclear power stations on the ice sheet and nuclear weapons in Greenland. This despite the fact that Denmark itself had a nuclear reserve. Camp Century and the extensive pollution left on the ice are one of the many examples of activities and decisions taken by the Danish state, which still fills a great deal in our political landscape today. These are decisions that were made over the heads of Greenlanders. Recently, the Chinese interest in the Arctic has filled a great deal in our debates. Denmark supports China's observer status in the Arctic Council. It is a signal that Denmark supports China's interests in actively participating in Arctic development. The Chinese have published their plans and interests for the Arctic and the new shipping routes, which are the new silk road and future trade with the West. It is an infrastructure new arrangement in the Arctic and the Arctic, a new order that will ultimately give Greenland a new trading strategic location that gives us a great economic potential for the future. For the Chinese, the infrastructure in the Arctic is of great importance for the success of the new silk road, thereby showing the Chinese interest in signalling a kind of co-ownership of this process. It causes the Americans to lift their eyebrows, and they have asked Denmark to slow down this Chinese advance in the Arctic. The United States is concerned about the Chinese talks and talks with Greenland. Denmark is now interfering in internal Greenlandic political matters, despite the fact that Greenland has the right to negotiate matters already settled and has the right to its own bilateral talks with other countries, including China in this context. The government calls Greenland's talks with China problematic and calls it a foreign and security policy issue for the kingdom. Denmark itself has a targeted marketing plan with China in advance. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a team to find Chinese investors with an appetite for what Denmark and the Danish business community have to offer. It is a job that does not make the government say that the need for a European security policy is a matter for foreign policy. If the Commonwealth is to have good conditions for good cooperation, it requires playing with open cards to each other, especially when it comes to American interference and politics. During these years we are witnessing the aftermath of American interference in the Kingdom community. Unfortunately, there are bad experiences that we need to learn from. By September it will have been 5 years since the Reichsaudit made the spectacular criticism of the preparedness in Greenland, including a serious criticism of the lack of a sea map. Greenland still hasn't got its chart. The charts have been delayed and the defence has announced that there is no means of handling the preparedness for a proposed mining project. The mining project will therefore be informed that they themselves will have to finance preparedness. It is among the many issues that cause me as a Greenlandic MP to react. I believe that if the Kingdom community wants to work together well, then we must also ensure each other's security in areas that have a significant international focus and which offer a business potential for both parties. If Denmark is to act as an Arctic nation or great power, as Taksøe mentions it, it requires Denmark to maintain a good relationship with the Arctic part of the kingdom community. This requires a special effort to promote the responsibilities in Greenland, which are 100 percent under Danish responsibility. Greenland is a domestic and foreign matter for Denmark. Today it is subject to 32 responsibilities relating to Greenland under Danish jurisdiction. It is 32 areas that constantly need the same improvements and attention that they have in the rest of Denmark. It is a hundred per cent Danish responsibility to ensure that the case areas have conditions appropriate to today's needs, a need worthy of the kingdom community. One of these areas is the justice area in Greenland. Legal certainty in all parts of the Commonwealth is not as strong. It's limping in Greenland. It is a one hundred percent Danish responsibility that needs urgent improvements. The government has shown political will to improve the Greenlandic justice system through the government base and budget appropriations. It must be stressed that the legal certainty of the people of Greenland is much worse than that of the rest of the Community. It can and must be done better. I still have great hopes for the North Atlantic unity that the Ministry of Justice has established, and I look forward to close cooperation to ensure that everyone feels a share of the improvements that may now come in the near future. The legal certainty of Greenland's citizens in Greenland must be strengthened. The funding allocated to improvements should be seen as only part of the implementation of the 2007 recommendations of the Court of Justice Commission, which still remains to be implemented. Finally, I would like to note that the Prime Minister is looking forward to the Kingdom meeting which will take place in the Faroe Islands next month. I wish the three respective Heads of Government a successful meeting and hope that they will have the opportunity to get into depth with the new Greenlandic coalition agreement on inter alia. the Danish language, which will certainly provide an exciting dialogue between Greenland and Denmark. And thank you for the parliamentary year that has passed and thank you for your good cooperation in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530195817	Thank you. Then there are some comments. Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530195822	Thank you. I will start at the end of the rapporteur's speech, precisely with the Danish language. Just as I asked Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen about the children who are in Danish post-schools, I would also like to ask the rapporteur here because the rapporteur's party leader is the banner of learning English as the first second language. There are a lot of children who are in post-school in Denmark. At Mors, at Galtrup Fødtskole, you have a large team with 25 Greenlandic children every year. They're under pretty good conditions. They are in Danish conditions, and they learn Danish, get an exam and can pass on in the Danish education system. Where does the rapporteur see these children to be in the future? Do they have to be sent to England under unordered conditions, to the United States? What is there in the future for all the many Greenlandic children who attend Danish afterschools?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530195914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530195916	I believe that the Greenlandic children will still have an interest in coming to Denmark and learning Danish. I think that interest will continue, regardless of whether the coalition believes that the English language should be the first foreign language. No one in the coalition has said that Danish must be abolished. You don't. I myself have personally attended a post-school in Denmark, precisely because I felt that I did not speak enough Danish, and that Danish filled very little in my consciousness. I also knew that it was an important language to learn to go beyond my own city at all. I think I share that thinking with many people. I also believe that it is up to our parents to ensure that, at an earlier stage, we also ensure that children have a strong foundation in all languages, both Greenlandic and Danish and English.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200010	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200011	I believe that everyone who has attended school knows that the third language you have, that is, the second language, is difficult. For those of us who live here in Denmark, it is German. Not many people are so good at it. It's like the Afterschool Association says that a lot of these kids are out with host families. The host families only want a Greenlandic child if it is such that it can do something Danish. What will it look like in the future, the rapporteur believes, if it is the case that you do not learn Danish as the first second language, but as the second language? And does the rapporteur think it is important that a proper Danish language should be able to get a proper education in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200102	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200103	Yes, if you want to take your education in Denmark, it is absolutely important that you have a strong Danish language. But the Danish is also very different in Greenland, depending on where you are now, where you have grown up, and which languages were spoken at home. Where I come from, in Uummannaq, we learned Danish at school. We had excellent teachers to teach us Danish, but our opportunity to practice the Danish could lie in a very, very small place, because we had no Danish language friends. There were no Danish children with whom we could practice our Danish with. I also believe that this is an issue that many people can nod to today too. Even at home we speak Greenlandic in the family, but when we turn to another language, we turn to English. All our children do. But it is not only because we think the English important, it is simply because we live in Nuuk, where you have the opportunity to speak so much Danish in everyday life that we think they have a very strong opportunity to practice the Danish much better than anywhere else in Greenland. It is very often a matter of priority from family to family.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200212	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200213	Thank you. I would like to ask you a few questions as to whether we should strengthen the Kingdom community. I think we've talked about that before. I believe, in fact, that regardless of whether you like me believe that the Kingdom is something that we must preserve forever and ever, or whether you are more in favour of independence, it is a strength for Greenland to strengthen the Kingdom community. By this I mean closer business cooperation, by which I mean that Greenland uses Denmark as a bridgehead for the European market. I would like to comment on what we have just said, that is, the importance of the Danish language. I do not think we can strengthen all these areas without also providing young Greenlandic students who would like to continue in high school where the language is Danish. It cannot be done without strengthening Danish. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether, in the short run, the rapporteur cannot see the value of the fact that as long as the high school takes place in Danish, Danish is a hundred per cent the way forward as the primary language beyond Greenlandic in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200322	I fully agree with the questioner that Danish is an important language. It will still be for a time after Greenland has become independent. For Denmark and Greenland will have relations with each other many, many years later. I also believe that Denmark and Greenland will be each other's closest friends and partners in many respects in the future, even after the political cooperation between Denmark and Greenland has gained a very different status from today. Having said that, I still think it is important to keep an eye on the change in the Kingdom community. This is incredibly important if you want to each other more than just a kingdom community in the future • at a time when Greenland is very much discussing autonomy • that you from both sides are going to say: What can we do to strengthen our relations as a more equal partnership? Or how will we shape the kingdom community in the future • at a time when both the Arctic and Greenland are definitely in political change?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200425	I will come a little closer to the question. In other words, as long as the high school in Greenland is in Danish and I hope that it will continue with always Danish and the high school is thus the bridgehead on to higher education, can the rapporteur explain to me what the logic is in downgrading Danish and thus downgrade young Greenlanders' opportunities for further education? So, as I remember, we had the student council president of a high school in Greenland in the northwest who said that the political game of independence is used to enchant the needs of Greenlandic students for Danish. Can the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200513	I do not think in any way that sneaking anything is the way forward. I don't think so. I also think that as long as Denmark and Greenland belong together, we must ensure that the Danish language is strong, not just for educational purposes. I certainly think that a language is a tool that must be strong and good and solid, not only for educational purposes, but also on all the leaders and edges of a society that has an awareness of what the kingdom community is all about. That goes without saying. But in addition, we are also citizens of the world, and we would like to have closer cooperation and relations with other countries, and there is also an absolutely crucial language that we need to master if not on an equal footing with Danish, then at a good level.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200553	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200555	Thank you. It's about the future, and this is about getting some capital for Greenland. I'm not as nervous about the Chinese as some others are, but I think it might be a really good idea if we helped each other build an arctic fund. Since the rapporteur is close to the government in Greenland, I would like to hear: what is the concern of building an Arctic fund together with the Danish Government and possibly with other capitalist circles if it could be used to develop business, tourism, fisheries and such things in Greenland? I have not quite understood it, and I think it is a little too bad if it does not succeed, because at least it should not be the money it will be lacking, nor the desire to help each other get things going.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200649	I have always said that the future development of the Arctic on the economic potential that is being implemented is important. I always like to see Danish active participation in it. We know what Denmark stands for. We know what Danish legislation is. We know about Danish mentality and Danish values and Danish principles much more than we do with the Chinese, much more than we do with the British or other countries for that matter. I also think that it has its natural approach that Greenland and Denmark can make a win-win funding in those areas that certainly have great potential for economic gain in the Arctic regions. So I am very much looking forward to seeing the new government take a look at the areas to which Denmark is also handing out, and I certainly hope that it will result in good results, good agreements that can ultimately be thought of further in economic terms than just the process of independence and independence, but that you also see each other as economically possible partners, which is what brings benefits for many generations to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200800	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200802	Thank you. Well, that's a good thing, 'cause maybe something's gonna come out of it. I have just received the government base from Greenland today. I haven't read it, I just skipped the main points. That's exciting reading. I have wondered, because I thought it was a matter of course that Siumut and IA, and who else might be part of a new government, would continue because I think there were some really good tactics in the old government. Can the rapporteur, as one of the parties inside the government, say something about the reason why we have not put together a wider body and made a government as narrow as we have done? What is the reason for not involving IA in such a government? I would do a great deal at home to ensure that a government was given the breadth and soundness of its work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200849	I believe that it is more the chairman of the national government or the chairman of the Naala Suisut who can answer why it has ultimately been decided not to include IA in the coalition partnership. At least I know so much that it was the fisheries policy and the fisheries legislation that were the reason why we could not meet. I nevertheless believe, despite the fact that we are not in the coalition, that the government and government parties and the opposition can find very good solutions in areas of such great and important importance to the Greenland economy, both for tourism and mining, but also certainly in the fisheries sector. So I hope, although one has not come into the coalition, that there will be a great willingness to make big deals with the government too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200938	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530200940	Thank you. I would also like to ask about the language it has a huge impact on the relationship between Denmark and Greenland. And the new Greenlandic autonomy has announced that you want to make English the first foreign language to learn in the Greenlandic primary school instead of today, where it is Danish. Today it is the case that the implementation rates at the three Greenlandic colleges where teaching is taught in Danish are very low due to language challenges. It is up to one third of the Greenlandic students in the high schools who fall out, primarily because they have difficulties in being taught in Danish. It is inevitable that when one then downgrades Danish in primary school, the difficulties will become even greater. Has anyone been made to look at what this will have to do with the implementation rates in high school and higher education, which are mostly happening in Denmark in Danish? What will that mean by loss of competence? How many extra will fall from in high schools and in higher education? Did you get someone to look at it? Has this been considered, or is it purely ideologically conditional, that one has now decided that one will move away from Denmark, and then one will tone down Danish teaching?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201053	The fact that you want to turn Danish into another foreign language is not a new discussion, it is a discussion that has been there for some years. And there are some individual Members of Inatsisartut who have tabled motions for resolutions and have raised questions about this over the years. But this is the first time that it has come into a coalition agreement to make English the first foreign language. That does not mean that we will do so tomorrow. It is an agreement that will be taken up, and it is certainly not only the coalition parties that will make that decision. It will be a decision that will ultimately have to be made in Inatsisartut, and we will also have to make an impact assessment and analysis to see what it will mean for our children, what it will mean for the high schools, what it will mean for the kingdom community • what it will mean for many things. So I think it's a process that will take time. And despite the fact that I personally believe that English should be the first foreign language, I still have my reservations, which I think should be taken seriously and seriously, because this is not just about me and my assessment, it is also about our children and our generations in the future. As long as we belong together, the Danish language is extremely important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201211	Thank you. I am delighted to hear it, and it is a little more softly worded than what I have heard so far. And I am glad that these considerations are being considered, because this is a very dramatic step and a very fundamental change in the Greenlandic education system. So I am very pleased that Mrs Aleqa Hammond says that it must be analysed thoroughly before making the decision and that it is not just said ajunngilaq, that is to say it will be all right. I am sorry that that is almost the only word I can say in Greenlandic, and it is of course too bad that we cannot do anything Greenlandic here. But I am delighted with a little more subdued tones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201247-2	To the point of apostasy, I would say that this is a major problem, and it is not just because of the language, so that it is the Danish language that causes it. There are dropouts in all educational institutions, including those where Danish is not the main language. This is a general problem that we are struggling with. And it is also extremely important that we have political attention to this and provide the necessary guidance to ensure that we keep students in schools until they are finished. However, I also believe that, in a society where we are dealing with several languages, there will always be a strong political debate and a language policy which is very often based on emotions and which very often leads to unnecessary disputes. But I think it is important to look at it in a helicopter perspective and see why it is so that it moves in that direction too because it is a sign that the kingdom community is changing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201343	Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201346	Thank you. I would like to ask a question about the differences between East and West Greenland. Because if I imagine an independent future Greenland, I see some major problems in the differences between East and West. One of the things I would like to ask more precisely is how the municipal reform has worked in the form of greater equality between East and West, for example. the fact that Tasiilaq was placed under Nuuk Municipalities. And it is on purpose that I do not say that they were merged, but that was the second thing that happened. Is that something that I can hear from Mrs Aleqa Hammond about what policy is in relation to the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201437	Yes, when Denmark made its municipal reform, Greenland did quite a few years after its municipal reform. They moved from 18 municipalities to four major municipalities. They gave it a few years, 4 to 6 years or so, and then they also began to discuss it around society, not only municipal politicians, but also among ordinary citizens, where they said that the divisions of the municipalities were too large. The region I myself come from in North Greenland is the world's largest municipality and we are only a few thousand people up there. This also means that local democracy is of great importance to us. You felt that some decisions were being made over your head in another city, and there are many negative things you've linked it to. That is why I think it is quite natural and appropriate to discuss the size of the municipalities, but certainly also that the cities are so different and that they still belong to the same municipality. This has also meant that the smaller places feel overlooked and that they do not have a strong enough voice. So I believe that the way we divide ourselves must always be under discussion and debate to ensure that local democracy is strong, especially where you feel weak.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201551	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201553	Yes, and now I asked specifically about the relationship between East and West, and the reason for that is, of course, that there are very large differences. But when you have just made a municipal reform that makes a municipality cross-border, has this led to increased centralisation? Has this led to a more weakened East Greenland, or has it led to a strengthening of, for example, Tasiilaq?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201617	That is true when the questioner says that there is a very big difference, not only geographically but also in social conditions, from east to west. This is a fact and we had hoped, and we also hope that the new municipal structure will help strengthen East Greenland in a completely different way than has been done in the past. Having said that, there is also a very large difference between North and the rest of West Greenland, so we have great differences and the standard of living is also very different from one place to another. I also think that the natural urbanisation where people move to larger places happens precisely because they want to have better schooling for their children. They want better access to hospitals and they may want better access to cheaper food than elsewhere. Yes, we have great challenges in Greenland to ensure equal treatment for all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201707	Thank you. Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201709	Thank you. The rapporteur is, of course, a strong advocate of an independent Greenland, and when you say in the same breath that there are many Greenlanders living in Denmark, as far as I remember, it is more than 10,000 people, I would like to know what consequences the rapporteur envisages for those who live there on the day when Greenland is an independent state.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201741	Yes, if only I could give an easy answer to that! That's a difficult question. We have freedom of movement in the Kingdom community. The Danes can move to Greenland as they please, just as Greenlanders can move to Denmark as we like, and to the Faroe Islands and the like. Very often it is the case that many move down here and are here because they study. They're here for a few years, and then they'll come back. But there are also many people who move down here because they feel that hospital treatment and the treatment of diseases are much better, and access to good doctors and specialists here is easier and better than it is at home, and I understand that you are looking for that too. But there are also many who have come down here because they feel that they can have a better life and that they can have a better life than they can in the village or small town they come from. There are all kinds of different people who have moved down here. I also believe that as the political change that is...
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201848	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201848-2	I know there is a very short time to answer such a rather big question, but I would like the rapporteur to address the consequences for Greenlanders living in Denmark on the day when Greenland is an independent state.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530201904	I think that the Greenlanders who live here in Denmark, despite the fact that we have not gone and become independent yet, are also discussing independence in Greenland very much, because it also affects them down here, not only the Greenlanders, but also Danes. I also believe that the fact that we are discussing community in our everyday lives does not take up so much. We don't talk much about community at home. Nor do I believe that the private Danish family speaks so much about community in everyday life. I think we should all give ourselves time to discuss and think about what the world looks like both for Denmark and Greenland at a time when Greenland has become independent. I think we will make some very different observations, but certainly also interesting ones. But I still believe that Denmark and Greenland will be each other's closest partners in a completely different way than we have been in the past. After all, we have 300 years of common history and shared experiences and shared successes that we have created with each other, which we can certainly use for a time, even after Greenland has become independent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530202005	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530202007	I'd like to talk a little bit about the native language. In fact, there are two native languages in Greenland: there are Greenlandic, and then there are Danish, and approx. A quarter of Greenland's citizens have Danish as their mother tongue. So why on earth is Danish treated as a foreign language when it is a mother tongue that is entitled to as much respect as Greenlandic as a mother tongue? That is the crucial question, and then you can have English as a foreign language, just as we do in Denmark. See, that'll be the good solution. In the Faroe Islands, with skilled Faroes, it is the case that you do not have a large minority. Yet one has managed to have Danish as a language, like a Kingdom language. So Danish is not just a native language in Greenland, but it is also a rich goal, and therefore it makes no sense that one treats it so stepmotherly and wants to make it a foreign language. Does the rapporteur not agree with this wise analysis?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530202118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530202119	I don't agree. I do not regard Danish as my native language. I have one mother tongue, and it's Greenlandic. Both my parents spoke Greenlandic to me. The whole family speaks Greenlandic with each other. We have one Danish speaker in the family, and this is my niece who lives in Denmark. Otherwise, the Danish language fills very little in my consciousness, but also in my ordinary everyday life in addition to the Folketing. I also think the Faroese have a language tribe that is similar to yours. It has a natural connection with the Nordic languages. We have a completely different culture, a completely different ethnicity and a completely different continent in which we live, and very often the kingdom community does not fill as much as you might think, because we learn Danish at school. I also certainly believe that the language problem or debate will result in many more nuances than that it is just Danish in school and English in school. I think we are in touch with many things in the Kingdom Community which are of major importance for our future political cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530202235	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530202235-2	Now you should never take your own situation and then make it an object of the whole of Greenland. We know that there are approx. a quarter of Greenland's citizens who speak Danish and who have it as their mother tongue, just as the rapporteur has Greenlandic as his mother tongue. So why in the world do not respect that Danish is a native language and must be treated on an equal footing with Greenlandic? And then there is also a rich goal that gives you access to a lot of benefits in Denmark in addition to it. Why on earth treat it as a foreign language when it is not a foreign language for a quarter of the citizens? That is something that must be taken into account. The minority in Greenland will have to be taken into account. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530202326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530202328	I still don't agree. I can understand your observation from a Danish point of view. It is also true that there are many who have Danish as their mother tongue in their homes, like my colleague. They speak Danish at home, whereas we spoke Greenlandic at home. But both languages are equally important as long as Greenland and Denmark belong together. There you must always think and think that it is important to have a language which is strong enough and which we think is worthy of the Kingdom Community. On the other hand, this does not mean making it the first foreign language. I also believe that the people who speak only Danish in Greenland very often feel that they are cut off from feeling fully integrated with those who speak only Greenlandic. For there are also very many people in Greenland who do not understand and speak Danish. So there are different levels of society that must be taken into account. The fact that you have Danish at school does not mean that we all speak fluently Danish if you do not have the opportunity to use it for everyday and everyday use. I look forward to our Greenland journey, where we are going to travel up in North Greenland, where Danish does not take up so much, but where you also have the opportunity to see and have a discussion with Greenlanders even if the language is spoken. I look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530202447	Thank you. Then there is no further comment on Mrs Aleqa Hammond, and then it is Mr Aleqa Hammond. Magni Arge, Tjóðveldi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530202501	Thank you, Madam President. Let me just start by congratulating you on the first 100 years of the rebuilt Christiansborg. If you do not have the magazine on page 112 in Hanne Rasmussen's new and enjoyable book about the Danish Parliament, then I would just like to remind you that the stairs that you use every day on your way up to the parliament hall were chopped to the backyard at the house of the stone cutter Jákup Andrias Arge in Rættará in Tórshavn. The stones are made of basalt, and one is almost tempted to say that Jampan, as Jákup Andrias was called in the folk, was also made of the same fabric. He certainly had a firm will to carry out what he set out to do. He wanted to build an industry with stone as a raw material, and he was responsible for building several monumental houses in Tórshavn. But Jampan also experienced much adversity, but he was impossible to strike out. He lost most of his left hand at a blast, lost sight in one eye because of a stone splint, and had one foot cut off when a rock fell on him. Instead of taking early retirement, however, he chose to become the supervisor of port buildings in Copenhagen, because he could do so with one hand. 1918 was not only about Christiansborg; it was also a year of hope because peace came when World War I ended in the autumn. The Faroese settlements were very isolated then. There were virtually no quays, and there were no motorized vehicles or roads then, so investment in infrastructure was high on the wish list. Once again, Jákup Andreas and his brothers were needed, who played a central role in the construction of port facilities, including the construction of the port. in Tórshavn. But real speed came only when the Faroese authorities took over responsibility for the expansion of roads and ports and put the legendary Mikkjal Helmsdal on the task 30 years later. And here 100 years later, the Faroe Islands' state-of-the-art infrastructure can be characterised as purely futuristic from the point of view of the time. Over- and undersea tunnels and bridges have tied 87 per cent. of the population together in a coherent road network. In fact, the North Atlantic's first underwater roundabout has recently been established in the tunnel between Streymoy and Eystroy. I am sure that Jampan and his brother, Óli, are sitting moony in heaven and are delighted that the descendants are just as stubborn and focused as they were at the time. In Tórshavn, the port facilities are considerably expanded to serve the growing demand of container companies using the Faroe Islands as hubs on the lines between North America and Europe. Aviation has also developed strongly and offers a frequency and regularity that tolerates comparison with other countries, and tourists are flowing to the country. Telecommunications is world-class, and gear shifting from 4G to the high speeds of 5G is under way. So since 1918 the Faroe Islands have moved from an isolated rock island far out in the sea to a modern hub at the gates of the Arctic, which today serves traffic between Europe and America and tomorrow also traffic between the Far East and Europe when the ice melts at the Arctic. Of course, this is of great importance for the development of business and trade with other countries. In good Jysk, exports are going well, and overall exports have grown by 70%. Since 2012 to 8,4 billion. kr. But there is more to be gained if we are able to create values out of the whole biomass and thus increase the yield for each kilogram of fish. In December, a fisheries reform was adopted to contribute to further sustainable development, both biologically, economically and socially, for both communities and businesses. It is a challenging and essential task to find an economic distribution between licensees and collective society, so that we develop both common welfare and innovative industry that is needed to run a sustainable society. It is also essential to ensure sustained innovation and the development of maritime services industries, so that we diversify exports to new products that can continue to be sold when nature's whims limit access to fish. The pattern of exports has changed considerably over the last five years. Firstly, provoked by the embargo imposed by the EU against exports of pelagic fish from the Faroe Islands, partly because of the salmon, which is heavily in demand in high-end markets outside the EU. At present, Russia is the largest importer of Faroese fish followed by the United States and the UK. Germany is the largest importer among EU countries, while Denmark is in fifth place. The changed pattern is not so much about politics, but mostly about salmon exporters constantly adjusting their sales to the best paying markets. The Faroese welfare depends to a large extent on our ability to translate our raw materials into high values on export markets, which is why we need good free trade agreements with other countries. It is a challenge for a country with such a limited home market and therefore it is extremely important to exploit momentum when it is present, because we cannot use the same trade agreements as Denmark does. At present, trade agreements are being negotiated with Japan, Korea, China and the Eastern bloc countries. However, the pattern is quite different in terms of imports, because Denmark is by far the largest supplier of goods and services to the Faroe Islands. In 2017, Denmark received 37 per cent. of the cake, which amounts to 2.7 billion. kr. of the total product imports. On the other hand, we exported only 562 million. kr. to Denmark, so the trade balance between the countries stands in strong Danish favor with about 2.2 billion. kr. I would like to repeat this: the trade balance between the countries is in strong Danish favor with about 2.2 billion. kr. We also buy services for 1 billion. DKK, where Danish suppliers are likely to be equally strong. The payment for patient care in Danish hospitals alone was 123 million. kr. Last year. Some of the explanation for the imbalance is undoubtedly derived from the unequal trade agreement between the countries where Denmark has free trade, while the Faroe Islands are subject to restrictions in trade with Denmark. However, this is offset to some extent by the block grant of 642 million. kr. Our greatest and most precious resource is people, and especially young people, who must drive society forward, and there is evidence that we have managed to create a more attractive society, because there are more who are choosing a life in the Faroe Islands now. Until recently, there were many who did not return and ended up delivering the most active marketing years, among others. Denmark. But it was good for Denmark because they are supposed to contribute 450 million. kr. annual to Danish economy, if we compare with a similar South Schleswig survey. For us, it is of great importance to develop relevant and sought-after courses that relate to the central sustainable blue economy on which we live. Bet on a solid education and research in the law, administration and health sector, to mention some that support the development of competence for the growing tasks undertaken by the Faroese State. At the same time, it gives new generations the opportunity to train at home. Last Friday, as the Prime Minister said at the opening this morning, we had a debate on the relationship between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. In my speech, I explained why I thought the so-called community was based on faltering assumptions from the outset, which division of powers should be brought to an end and how I see the future of cooperation between three independent countries. But that agenda was largely met with silence. It will probably be too strong words to use the rapporteur of the Conservatives to talk about that enough water was poured out of the ears, but it may help to hold two shorter debates next time when the Faroe Islands and Greenland's relations are discussed separately because they are so different. Let me also remind the honourable public that when President Wilson of America arrived in Europe in 1918, in other words 100 years ago, in order to propose a lasting world peace, one of his pillars was the right of the countries to self-determination. The newspapers wrote at the time that it was appreciated in Denmark, for now the beloved South Jutland would be resumed in Denmark's realm, and at the same time the government honored the principle of self-determination by recognising Iceland's full independence through a personal union. So the solution model for the next step in the development of the relationship between the Faroe Islands and Denmark was already established in 1918. It's been a long time, but 2018 is a great year to set the new course for cooperation between the countries, and I hope that the Prime Minister will take this inspiration with him to the Faroe Islands in June, because it will get fresh air under its wings. Forget about putting the face masks in stone-set folds, because on the Faroe Islands we haven't forgotten the art of cutting rocks • Just look at the stairs when you leave this hall. With these words, I would like to thank you all for the parliamentary year and wish you all a good summer vacation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530203608	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge, but we have a few brief comments to make. First it's Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530203615	Thank you very much, sir. Magni Arge for a really lively speech. The rapporteur is well known for that. As a Greenlandic parliamentarian, it is of course also interesting to discuss the repatriation of various areas, because although we are in different places, it is always interesting to be inspired by each other. I would like to hear from the rapporteur what strategic considerations have been made in the Faroe Islands in relation to which areas are being taken home and when they are being taken back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530203649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530203651	I believe that the recital was taken back in 2001 that it would be possible, if I may say so, to erase the Home Rule Act, but it has not been fully achieved, and it has not gone at the rate that was expected at the time. The current coalition was then planning to take over the right of persons, family and inheritance, and this is going to happen on 29 July this year. We are also working in the field of foreign affairs and air transport. I don't know how far that has come. I hope you get to the finish line before this session is over, but it's possible that you don't get to the finish line. If I have to look at the future, I would say that we need to be a little more strategic in the choices we make about what we have to take over. If you want to be an independent state, you also have to take on some of the heavy responsibilities in the area of justice, such as justice. The legal system and the police authority, and these are two of the things that I believe we must put on the agenda in the near future. And, by the way, it is also about reducing the block subsidy from Denmark, so that we make ourselves independent of money coming from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530203800	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530203801	Thank you very much. It thunders with the Faroese economy, it goes very well for the Faroe Islands financially, and we also know that there are more and more people who fortunately choose to move back to the Faroe Islands, so it is also interesting to see Greenlandic glasses. One of the things I have heard is that an economic fund has been created, which, like you, wants to ensure that there is money to invest in the future too, and that is also really, really, really interesting. When we talk about repatriation, it is also about having the economy to deal with some of these areas, so I think it might be interesting to hear what economic considerations you are making in relation to which areas you are returning.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530203839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530203840	I am not quite sure that I got it all in, but let me say that for the time being some reforms have been made in the Faroe Islands. One is a pension reform, the other is a fisheries reform, both aimed at achieving better sustainability in our society. But we have also created an economic fund, which is a stabilisation fund, you can say where the revenue from e.g. You know, the sale of licenses and stuff can be part of this stabilisation fund. This means that we have a financial reserve, which gives us a strength in the future. However, it may also help to finance certain price changes or investment initiatives of different kinds.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530203922	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530203924	Thank you. I don't know if sir. Magni Arge is as big a folk hero at home in the Faroe Islands as this stone king. But I know somewhere else in Europe where Mr. Magni Arge is actually quite a folk hero, and it's in Catalonia. If you asked people on the street, a lot of people would actually know who, sir. Magni Arge is, for he has played a crucial role in the criticism that has been made of the Spanish Government's handling of the desire of some Catalans for a referendum on increased autonomy or secession. I think you should know that here in the Folketing. So here we have a Member who has played a very, very important role in trying to establish dialogue rather than the repression that has taken place. But what I really wanted to ask, now that you may have followed it closer than any of us: have you been able to use any of our experiences from the dialogue we have had here to try to help resolve the very inflamed conflict that we are seeing in Spain right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204036	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204038	I think that just the fact that we were able to set up a meeting in the Danish Parliament where we could invite people who were, if I may say so, excluded from Spain and Catalonia to discuss the situation that was down there so that one is able to try to understand both parties in a conflict, is in itself an inspiration to the parties in Spain and Catalonia. Because we cannot reach any reasonable understanding or peaceful coexistence if we do not try to understand each other and try to find some kind of compromise with which both parties can live. This is obviously not the position adopted in Madrid. There you have assumed an unusual tough line, where you do not want to discuss with the catalons at all, where I believe that the catalons on the other hand, of course, also the pressure of the situation that is in Madrid, too, are trying to play with the muscles. But they just don't have any muscles to play with, so they're more to the compromise than the other party is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204152	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204153	After all, when we visited Catalonia, we met a number of elected politicians down there, ministers who are currently in prison in Spain, not because they have committed anything violent or something that would be considered criminal at home, but only in order to run a referendum. What do you think about the fact that Europe, the European Union and European governments, has not reacted significantly to the fact that we have elected politicians who, for the first time, as long as I can remember, are imprisoned in a European country?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204229	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204230	I'm at least as upset now as I was then, and it's actually getting worse. Because I think that the situation has developed quite intolerable. Because democratic elections have been held and the voters have spoken, and they have elected an assembly of parliamentarians who have put themselves together to form a government in which the central government of Madrid has repeatedly prevented this government from moving and being able to run as they should now under the Catalan constitution. I do not understand why the European Union is unable to give a helping hand in trying to soften the situation and find a viable compromise way to talk and have a dialogue, instead of leading to confrontation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204316	Thank you. Next, sir. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204318	Thank you, and thank you, to the rapporteur for the historic score. Exactly the passage in the book about our good stone cutter, who first gets a hand blown to pieces and then loses one eye and gets a foot pinched, tells very well that you continued your career because at that time you didn't just have a check that failed through the door. Now I have been to the Faroe Islands sometimes with the rapporteur, and he is a good storyteller and does not hide all the Faroe Islands' excellence. There is a self-esteem in every respect, but in that it is done in such a charming way that it slips down, we have no problem with it. And then the rapporteur never forgets to tell us, if there is a hero in the Faroe Islands, that the rapporteur is at least related to him or has been or has been in generations. What I really want to ask is that, with these huge investments being made in the Faroe Islands, precisely because things are going so well and the exports are so great, what are you going to do to set aside and override funds for, if I may say, the fish is swimming away at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204433	Indeed, as I said to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen before, it is the fact that we have set up an economic fund in which we then set aside some of the profits from the Finance Act. It is therefore money that we have to take forward at the time when we may need some cyclical activities to keep our economy on a sensible course. So I think that with the surplus we have at the moment, we have a 400-500 million. kr. per years, and with the provisions that we have in the economic funds, we seem to be able to manage to keep a fairly steady and steady course. But that depends, of course, on how violent the fluctuations are. It can be said that back in the early 1990s we had no unemployment benefit in the Faroe Islands at all. Today we have a large fund to which everyone pays, which makes it equalises the cyclical fluctuations of the individual who loses their jobs. It is another form of stabilising fund that we have. So I think it looks reasonable. But of course more can always be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204540	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204542	Why I ask is because the Danish National Bank has been out saying that they might have been a little worried that it actually went so well in the Faroe Islands. You can say with a crooked smile that in the Faroe Islands there is no anguish, the Russians pay. Because it is a very, very large exporting country now, and one can say that it is perhaps not the most stable. Again: Things are evolving from day to day, and because the Faroe Islands are so dependent on fish exports, it is also a very narrow area where things can go wrong if things go wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204620	I would like to comment on the statement made by the questioner on this particular issue of our trade with Russia. I would like to say first of all that a very large part of this is about salmon and salmon exports will continue, whether for example. Russia's market will collapse or not, because there are plenty of customers in China, the United States, Europe and elsewhere who want the salmon. They just don't want to pay as much as the Russians do, so it's a question of the last proceeds. The second, which concerns the pelagic fish, has its reason for the fact that we were subject to an EU embargo on pelagic fish, and then we built up the market in Russia that we could use instead of the European one. And we will not let that go, because we do not know when the next embargo will come.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204705	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204707	Thank you. Of course, we all welcome the good times we are experiencing in the Faroe Islands at the moment, and we have also seen for a long time that things have gone better and better up in the Faroe Islands with the economy. As things go better and better, we see historically that the desire for secession also increases. I have picked up some polls from the Faroe Islands, among others. from Gallup in 2016, and there is also a measurement from Kringvarp, which shows that there are 48% who are against secession. When I look at some recent measurements from March 2018 and May 2018 in vp.fo and Sosialurin, I can see that the desire for secession actually falls as the rapporteur has talked about secession in the Danish Parliament during the last period in which the rapporteur has been elected. What is the causal link if you ask the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204806	I can only answer the questioner in this way: as you ask, you get answers. Well, it all depends on how you formulate the question. If you ask the Faroese whether they believe that the Faroe Islands should have an independent, self-supporting economy in 2025, then 70 per cent will answer. Yes. If you ask if they think the Faroe Islands should be an independent country by 2030 on that basis, then two thirds answer: Yes, of course we do. But if you ask people if they want to be self-employed tomorrow and lose all the financial support they get from Denmark through block support, then a third say they want to, but the next third is more questionable. That's absolutely clear. That is common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204849	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204849-2	Thank you. That is not the way any of these questions are formulated. They are formulated more like: What ambitions do you have for the Faroe Islands? But it is rather strange that, as the rapporteur has preached secession in the Danish Parliament time and again, we see in fact that the Faroese themselves are saying no to the idea of secession. It is not certain that the rapporteur believes that there is a causal link, and there is not necessarily a causal link, but it might well be that the rapporteur then had another explanation for the fact that the Europeans have actually become more and more positive towards the European Community over the last few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530204932	I have no doubt that there are quite a few convicts who are positive about the so-called Kingdom Community. I just think that this is not the right future for us with the Constitution that is in force today. I believe that this should be based on the cooperation of free countries and that there should be voluntary cooperation in this area. I am convinced of that. Furthermore, in connection with today's representation of the Republican party's support in a new parliamentary election, I can say that it is typical that the small parties, which are all more on the national wing, will support a republican candidate in a forthcoming parliamentary election. It's always been like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205017	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205018	Thank you. The whole struggle for national self-determination is quite excited when one listens to Mr Tugendhat's speech. Magni Arge. And that's good enough, especially when you can see that it can give inspiration elsewhere. I also think that the rapporteur has made a good contribution to that debate in Catalonia. Now I can hear that South Jutland is also included in history, not only as a historical memory, but also as a reality where minorities are actually supported to be as self-employed as possible. When the Faroe Islands become self-employed, how will the problems be solved, for example? I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. I am thinking of research, hospitals, defence or at least search and rescue, because the defense doesn't mean you need to. But how does Tjóðveldi intend to solve the tasks that can be worked on across borders, or with great benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205129	I think that we should at least be very clear that it is limited how many resources 50,000 people have. Of course we have a great natural resource in the sea, but we are still gone only 50,000 people. That is why we need close cooperation with all sorts of others, if I can put it that way. But we have far more opportunities to enter into alliances and cooperate with other countries and alliances when we stand on our own feet as sovereign state than when we have to work through the Danish state, which is bound up with various agreements that make us unable to accede to what we want. I am convinced that on the defence side we will be on the western side with NATO, together with the UK, because we are clearly an English defence area because we are in their backyard so we might as well work together on that too about search and rescue. When it comes to the health sector, we have a long tradition of cooperating with Denmark in this respect, and today we are buying 123 million. kr. services in Denmark. It is possible that we could buy them also in Scotland, Norway or in Iceland I don't know but I think that as the infrastructure is today, one will probably still hold on to Denmark, at least for a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205242	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205243	Thank you. What role will it play, as Mr. Magni Arge calls the so-called Kingdom Community, playing after the independence of e.g. both the Faroe Islands and Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205258	If you look at the trade figures it was among other things. Therefore, I put them on the table now you will see that you have an export from Denmark to the Faroe Islands of 2.7 billion. kr. in goods and perhaps 400-500 million. kr. in various services, and I have no doubt for a moment that it may be the same degree, perhaps more, perhaps a little less. I do not know, it depends on how good friends you are and how much you are doing to have good and dignified cooperation between countries. As we have a long tradition of cooperating with Denmark commercially, in the legal field, in the administrative field, in the health field, it will be the most natural thing to develop further in the fields where agreement is reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205347	Then it's Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205348	Thank you. I would ask the rapporteur to explain what the rapporteur meant when he spoke about the so-called Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205402	I can do that. Alf Ross, one of Denmark's greatest court theorists in the 20th century, already wrote to the government and the authorities when the Home Rule Act had been formulated that the indictment of this as a kingdom community is completely wrong. Because it has nothing to do with a community. This is a hierarchical law in which Denmark sits at the top and where the Faroe Islands are in a subordinated situation. The power is not equally divided between the Latting and the Folketing, and therefore it is not a community, but it is a wealth unit, as he called it then. And that is why I continue to say the so-called Kingdom Community. These are not two equal parties, as the home government is organized today. But when we come up with a change, I'd like to see if we could use another statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205509	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205510	Isn't the truth that the Kingdom is the best safeguard for the future of the Faroe Islands? The Faroe Islands are protected by the rocks when the Atlantic waves strike against the hard rocks. In the same way, the Danish Empire community is protected when the storm rages in the world. Who else will help if you are self-employed? So in the kingdom community you get the best of two worlds: you get a form of independence where Denmark interferes as little as possible, and then you get protection when the storm rages. Is that not the true analysis of the current situation in the Faroe Islands? The best of two worlds has been achieved. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205608	I agree that I prefer a Nordic partner to a South European, for example, if it is. But to say that the Kingdom community is the great protection, I would say now is a bit of an exaggeration. For when you look at 1917 and 1918 e.g., the post from the Danish government was often censored in England on its way up to the Faroe Islands, because there was no direct contact. And during World War II it was actually the British who protected the Faroe Islands from the Nazi invasion. There was no Danish military present at all to defend the Faroe Islands. It's just a fact. It is also a fact that if something similar happened again, it would be the British defence area, not a Danish defence area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205650	This evening, a little too much direct indictment has been sneaked in. Sorry!), but it may be the weather etc. that does it. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205657	It is true that this was the case. But today is a different situation. Denmark comes to the rescue of the Faroe Islands. We did it, for example. When the Faroe Islands were attacked by Sea Shepherd. It was Danish police and Danish patrol boats that cleaned up the Faroe Islands and the Faroe Islands, and we are very happy to do so. We love the Faroe Islands very much, and we would like you to stay in the Kingdom Community. So why does the rapporteur not recognise that the best of two worlds is to be achieved? You get a form of autonomy and autonomy, where you can largely do what you want to do outside the EU, even trade with other countries, while at the same time obtaining the protection that the Kingdom community provides for mutual benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205744	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205745	Well, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, I would love to have the best of two worlds, if I can, as long as I have, if I may say, the decision-making authority to decide what I want to be in and what I don't want to be in. As far as the police were concerned, they did their job, and they did well. I recognize that. But I also assume that we are about to build up our own police, just as we had up until 1960. This will be one of the tasks we will have to undertake over the next few years, and then we will do it ourselves. And if Watson comes, at some point we'll arm our ships, and then we'll just have to shoot him down if he gets too close.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205824	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. The next speaker is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530205836	Thank you for that, President. As some will be able to hear, I am not quite in top shape today, so I think that maybe it is a speaker who is not in top shape and listeners who are a little tired and that it may not be the best combination, but let us try to eat through it. In his speech, the Prime Minister began with a large number of figures. Here are some more figures: 74 days, 6 hours and 40 minutes after setting course from Portugal, the rowing boat arrived on 12 May in Cuba. The crew of four men, one from New Zealand and three from the Faroe Islands, changed for 74 days to row and rest for 2 hours at a time. 445 times they rowed for 2 hours and 445 times they rested for 2 hours. Perhaps there are some in this Chamber who remember when they left Portugal, because the beers wanted to bring a greeting from the Danish people's government to Cuba, and since I know the skipper quite well, I went in here and collected signatures for a greeting which was sent over with the boat. There were four party presidents, there was a minister, and there were a few other Members who signed, and I thank you for that. Yesterday the skipper came back to Denmark, and earlier today he was in the house here with letters from the Cuban Parliament to those who signed the greeting that was brought over with the boat. It simply says that we want to strengthen the friendly relations and mutual understanding between the two parliaments and the two peoples, and I would like to thank those who took part here and thank you for the greetings that came the other way. Of course, it can be very difficult to see the meaning of such a rowing trip. Why do four men spend 74 days without continuous sleep, with painful muscles and blisters on their asses, rowing across the Atlantic? But as Herbert Mallory replied when asked why he wanted to climb Mount Everest in the early 1920s: Because it's there because the mountain is there. Setting great goals is something we can learn from in politics. We can also learn something from both climbers and rowers. We can learn that all the small steps are of great importance at the end. Of course, it is very difficult to see the meaning of rowing across the Atlantic. Imagine finding meaning in every one of a million a year, while you're out in the lake, where you can't see anything but water. But even harder than seeing the meaning of rowing to Cuba is well to see the meaning of not rowing to Cuba. Wasn't that very good? That's the damn best thing I've said since I got here. What is the point of not rowing over the Atlantic? That is a very philosophical question. It is also very difficult to see the meaning of what we are doing. The debate we have had today has in itself hardly changed anyone's life, but if we had not had the debate, that would make no sense at all. And in the big story, every single small step taken in Danish politics and every single debate has led Denmark to a place that one knew one could reach. Because it's there. Don't try, it says laconic at Charles Bukowski's tomb. Don't try, understood: there's nothing that makes sense anyway. But Bukowski probably meant his engraving as some kind of provocation. He probably wanted us to ponder the difference between trying and not trying, because if you do, you think about the difference, you can only plunge into everything possible, settle to row to Cuba or set out, as the Prime Minister did in his speech this morning, to pull the world in the right direction. It's not a small target. To show profits, he said, when others show deficits, makes a difference. And, according to the Prime Minister, Denmark must do so by tearing itself away from the United States and linking itself closer and more binding to Europe. I think that was the most important message of the speech, and I also think it was brave of the Prime Minister in such a high-profile speech as today to call the country of American dreams, dreaming of less free trade, dreaming of more just themselves, fewer international obligations and more sanctions. It is the case that Denmark has been one of the closest allies in the United States and has more times attached itself more strongly to the United States than has been attached to the rest of Europe. That is why this was a very clear message about a fundamental change in foreign policy. Because that is the same signal that comes, for example. from Germany, France and Spain and partly from England, and I also think that is necessary, because the United States is not today acting as the natural leader of the Western world. There has been a fundamental change of course on the other side of the Atlantic. Many of the small and large steps taken every day in the United States go in the wrong direction, not least the repeal of the Iran agreement. It goes against isolation, against the withdrawal of cooperation and against more nationalism. That is why Europe must take on the role, as the Prime Minister put it, as the adult boy of the class on the world stage. The problem is that with the internal processes in Hungary and Poland and with Brexit and with the total chaos in Italy, it is a little difficult for Europe to claim the role of the adult. I also think that Europe should be the adult in the world, but perhaps the level of ambition should be limited in the first place to the fact that, in even closer cooperation, the Nordic countries take on the role of the adult in Europe. Together we are both strong and large in the Nordic countries, and together we can realistically take on the role of the adult in the class in our continent. This means, of course, that we need much closer cooperation on foreign and defence policy. It is ambitious, but it makes more sense to do so than not to do so. Together, Denmark and the Faroe Islands also have something to offer when it comes to the current debates in Europe about what room for manoeuvre the nations that do not have their own state apparatus should have, a debate that Pelle Dragsted raised with his question just before. Independence and community are not contradictions in the European Union, they are each other's prerequisites, and I also believe that the Faroe Islands, as is currently the case, have greater opportunities to create a secure, wealthy and free society in the community with Denmark than we would have outside. But of course this presupposes that there is a willingness on both sides to make it work and an understanding of what needs to be done. During the past year we have had some unfortunate incidents, which I have also criticised very strongly, but on the whole we have rowed together and we have come a long way together. It makes more sense than not to row together, and it also makes more sense than it makes rowing separately. At the end of the day, we had a case about a police station the other day. My alternate raised the matter, and we have then been in dialogue with the Minister for Justice on that matter. I have since obtained more information about it, and I think we can find a solution that is far better than the one on the table now. We can get a new and far better police station in Tórshavn for much less money than the plans are. I hope that we can have a good dialogue on this in the coming days too. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530210707	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530210710	Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale for as usual a very inspiring speech. What I would like to ask specifically is: if the Faroe Islands are now taking home the family law area in a month's time, then you are facing some people, yes, you might call the exciting and interesting discussions on free abortion. Sjúrður Skaale the situation about free abortion in the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530210733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530210735	Yes, it is quite true that it will be a very fundamental, very fundamental debate to be held in the Faroe Islands. How do I assess that? I hope that it will take place in an objective tone with factual reasons on both sides. I am sometimes asked by the Danish press: is it okay that there is an area in the Danish Empire where there is no free abortion? is it not something Denmark should interfere with? I do not think it is. For if a decision taken in the Faroe Islands is to have legitimacy in the Faroe Islands, then it must be taken by the Faroese people's government. But that is why, of course, you are very welcome to say your opinion on it, it is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530210817	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530210818	I am also aware of Mr. Sjúrður Skaale's position on free abortion, but how does the rapporteur view the future of it? Is that realistic? Is that what will win the debate in the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530210831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530210832	A few opinion polls have been made which show that there is not a majority for complete free abortion, but abortion in many cases, but not complete free abortion. That is the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530210846	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530210850	The discussion about free abortion simply underlines that the Faroese people have a huge freedom to decide what they want to do. My question goes more towards the picture with the rowboat, which I thought was a good picture. I think it was a beautiful picture, and it actually depicts in a good way this community we have. So thank you for that. The rapporteur's colleague, Mr. Magni Arge, in his answer to me, mentioned that up to 70%. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Does the rapporteur agree with the view that as much as 70% of the budget is spent? If you ask the right question, are the Faroese people too independent? I think that was a very far-reaching answer, so I would really like to hear what Mr. Sjúrður Skaale tells Mr. Magni Arge's promiscuity.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530210946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530210948	I don't want to relate to what Mr. Magni Arge has said, but the studies that have been made show that there is such a thing as this. 30% in favour of the creation of a Faroese state. I think that is because the relationship is good at the moment. There is a good dialogue and the room for manoeuvre that is needed in general. When there are crises and when there is a lack of understanding, things are going more wrong. I myself believe, and I also believe, that many people share this experience, that if you can have community and autonomy and they support each other, that is the best way to go. It is for this reason that the parties that want full autonomy have a majority in the Latting, but there is no correlation between these parties because other matters such as taxation policy, social policy, industrial policy are much higher on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530211040	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530211041	Another question is about the future of the Faroese language in Denmark. The University of Copenhagen plans to close Faroese to the university. You and I have talked about this very briefly. I would really like to know whether the rapporteur is in dialogue with the Minister for Research and Education about this, so that we can avoid this disastrous decision • not just for the Faroe Islands and for Denmark, but for our entire Nordic history and language history.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530211112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530211113	Thank you. Yes, I am in dialogue with the Minister and I have asked the Minister to enter into dialogue with the University of Copenhagen on this matter. Personally, I do not think it is so huge, because it is not so awful many students. But the problem is that the matter comes into a larger picture, which is that there is not much teaching about the Faroe Islands at all in Danish schools. Unfortunately, however, can go through an entire primary school programme without reading a page about the Faroe Islands, and that is unfortunate. In that context, it looks boring.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530211144	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. Christian Juhl I pass). Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Sjúrður Skaale, and we will be through the rapporteur's line. That's why it's the PM now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530211209	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor. Thank you for the debate, it has been long, it is a good 13 hours since we started, but it has been a good debate that has brought us all the way around. And I would like to start by thanking all those who have contributed to giving it a little bit of creativity and a little bit of cheerfulness, because, as I said this morning, when others show deficits, we must show profits. And we've been doing that all day. While the sun has shined and the Danes have been out in it, we have kept the mood high in here, and Mrs. Mette Frederiksen laid good from the beginning of the morning by referring to children's songs about larks and hares and other animals, which is excellent inspiration. I can supplement a little from my own back catalogue: The sun is so red, Mother is an excellent song and it is included in the strofen • Mågerne og terne har no place to live. • It is not quite factually correct, because as recently as yesterday we opened a new national park, Kings Nordsjælland, and soon we will begin the re-creation of Lakeborg Lake, which will be a fantastic natural area. Or, "Elephant's lullaby" with "Sleep sweet, little jumbo..." Now we put an end to elephants and other wild animals in the circus so that little jumbo can sleep safely and sweetly in the knowledge that he should not tour the country around a container. Or, "Who's afraid of the big bad wolf?" Yes, there are people who are, and perhaps rightly so, and that is why we also spend a lot of time discussing it, both wolves and wild boar fences, and lately we have even recruited a new minister from the lion's cave, so thank you for that inspiration. Now we have been discussing for 13 hours and 15 minutes, and one might ask oneself: what is actually left of this debate? Yeah, what do? We are asked back from the hall, that is, beyond the child songs. Yeah, what's left of it? The main impression remains that, from a parliamentary point of view, there is an opposition to the government, the Social Democratic Party, the SF and the Enhedslisten, and then there is also an opposition to the opposition, the Radical Left and the Alternative, and the two oppositions have then spent the day discussing and fighting each other a little in this Chamber, and probably so much on Twitter, as for example. In a tweet from Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, and I quote directly and therefore fail to read: "Morten Østergaard will solve the problems of reality." But he has the basic problem that he does not recognize what the problems of reality are and most often declines to solve them. ▪ What do you need friends for? you can ask. But Mr. Morten Østergaard then said today about his party: we are masters of compromise. And I think that will be needed if it gets there. That ability will be tested. Then I am delighted that on the other side of the line it looks much nicer, because here we have a government that is best friends with our parliamentary basis, and I know that because it said Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl himself from the Speaker's Chair: We are the Prime Minister's best friend, helping him along the way. Then it came to mind my old friend, Jodle Birge, and that real friends can't be bought for money, and then at least not for money you don't have. It may be some of the things that bind us together and that make us have a real friendship, because we have the money together, because we have created a room for manoeuvre. In a series of historic, responsible political decisions, we have made it possible to seize the recovery, and this must also be highlighted here today, because there is, of course, a straight line from the heavy decisions we made last time I was Prime Minister, responsible reforms: unemployment benefit reform, early retirement reform, recovery package. Others could conjure it all away in 12 minutes, but we made some decisions, and that's what makes it so that when milder winds started blowing across Europe, the bird Denmark could unfold its wings and breathe under its wings. This also applies to the agreements that we pushed the Socialist-led government into during the 31⁄2 years of the time when the Social Democratic Party has been responsible for leading Denmark over the last 17 years, well helped by the Radical Left. This also applies to the policy we have decided since the parliamentary elections, a policy in which reforms and good business conditions lay the foundations for the development of our society. Since the parliamentary elections, we have been reduced by 19 billion by the government and the Danish People's Party. kr. We have introduced a ceiling on cash benefits and an integration allowance up against a very large minority, so that it pays better to work and it works. It has not had as terrible consequences as everyone says it could have. Let me just mention a figure that I didn't get this morning: 50,000, or 50,000. So many more Danes over 60 years of age work today compared to 4 years ago, among others. because we have motivated them to do so, and we owe them thanks, because they are helping to ensure that right now things are going well in Denmark. So: No, you can't buy real friends for money, but real friends together can make decisions that create money and room for manoeuvre. It's going well. It's kind of going pretty well. And then there is the problem: What are you going to complain about? Then you can usually complain about the weather, but it's a little difficult at the moment. In other words, we have been talking about this before in a final debate two years ago, when there was a young Social Democrat who came to claim that the weather was better during Anker Jørgensen. I was then able to refute that with a planche up here from the platform, it lies somewhere up in my office and can be retrieved if someone wants it, but it is also beaten. This month of May, which expires tomorrow, ends with about 350 hours of sunshine. It's the most sunny month of May since the Danish Meteorological Institute began measuring these things back in 1920. So you can complain about the weather? Yes, if you are a real opposition, you can, because I saw a tweet from an alternative press manager, I say this one more time: a press manager from the Alternativet-- who was complaining about the offices just above the Royal Halls, which I must understand presents certain challenges with smell in the heat, i.e. smell from the stables, understood. And then I just want to say as a call to the alternative that if it hits too hard, I can recommend a dip in the harbor. For not only is May heading towards sunrecords, Denmark's capital has just been named the world's best seaside resort according to CNN, better than Copacabana, better than Rio de Janeiro. So Denmark is measured in sunshine hours and bath facilities a really good country, so what do we have to complain about? We have to think of something, and there have been such hints of it here today. The number of problems is constant, and that is why I understood from Mrs Mette Frederiksen that there is something to come for. Compared to what happened with the green and the windmills, I was appointed Don Quixote, and what should you really think about it? This Don Quixote was a self-appointed knight who rode around on such an emaciated journey, but he was more than that, you see, if you read Cervantes' novel, he was an idealist, that is, he was an idealist, and the whole novel is about this conflict between idealism and reality. And I am really proud to be appointed an idealist, that is, one who fights for the ideals every day in one sense or another and holds onto them and then, of course, tries to be realistic against the possibilities, unlike Don Quixote's squire, Sancho Panza, who has a completely different attitude to life. If you first got word to get up early, you can stay down for dinner; that was his slogan. Quixote c'est moi: idealist. Sancho Panza: peasantry, comfortable, a bit like the Social Democracy in this debate about the green. Because there is something that suggests that the Social Democrats think: we have got a reputation for being green. Then we don't have to do anything about it, so we can just turn around on the stomach and take a grandpa and leave 2 and 4 straight, forget about the money, and then we can get away with anything and in fact in that way, in fact, be less green than what the government has proposed. I'm gonna say that a little joke, and I'm gonna say it a little seriously. But the truth is that we have proposed something similar to an overbid strategy, more climate, more sea wind, a little more of all. And here it is that it gets a little Sancho Panza-like, because hot air comes in many forms, but I hope and would urge you to keep a close eye on it, because it is really not so much fun at all. The government has presented an ambitious energy initiative, which is leading to a new break in Danish energy policy. On the one hand more supply of green energy • a 800 MW offshore wind farm produces power for what corresponds to the seven largest cities in Denmark • a clear signal that more needs to be done, but exactly how much more offshore wind we have to decide in 2022. On the demand side, too, there is a stronger incentive for Danes to use electricity rather than other energy sources to encourage investment in heat pumps as an alternative to oil burners in order to promote a green conversion. This isn't something we've just come up with out of our own free imagination. There are people who have recommended it. Only yesterday, the economic wise men praised the government for opening up the tax side and proposing a lowering of the electricity tax so that we can get a vital electrification of society to the benefit of the climate. That is what the government has proposed. It costs money. It costs money. But if you want something, you also have to be prepared to pay for it. And this is where I am left with enormous doubts, because now I understand that the Social Democratic Party is saying: There is no room for manoeuvre on the energy agreement • there is no room for room for manoeuvre on the energy agreement. We can use the so-called green space alone, i.e. the money that arises in the wake of the abolition of the PSO. There is, of course, just the problem that there is no green room for manoeuvre in 2019, 2020, 2022, 2023, and only the green room for manoeuvre can be used to generate energy for, says Social Democracy. Then you have to understand that in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, in other words, for the remainder of this parliamentary term and the whole of the next one, obviously nothing is going to happen. I think that is strange, especially in view of the fact that we have heard and heard here again today in all sorts of colour dresses on the platform: look how green we are, it is not at all good enough what you others are proposing. How's that supposed to work out? Social democracy says we need two more offshore wind farms. That's about 7 billion. kr. Then we must have a research billion, something more than the government has proposed, and if it is not to be drawn in the form of a downgrading of other areas of research, then it must be financed. Then we need to have a greater supply of sun and wind, and all this comes on top of what the government has proposed and which, in the first place, there is therefore no money for if we are not prepared to invest some of the room for manoeuvre in a green transition. That's the truth about this case. It may be that it is badly heard and that you have a reputation for being green, and then you can just roll around on your stomach, but the truth is that there is no economic green space until 2023. And my patience does not allow us to move on with the green transition until then. I've been in politics for a number of years. I've seen most of it, and I've tried a little bit of everything. That is why I can really understand why it is possible to propose a payment ring in an election campaign, because then, once you have been elected, to find a better solution the next day. I can also understand that you can conduct an election campaign in which you thunder against tax cuts, so as not to roll back one of them when you get to, and even lighten the top tax, because you get smarter. In fact, I also have some degree of sympathy for the fact that, having implemented 45 relaxations of foreign policy while in government, we are becoming wiser and changing our course. But pretending to be green as a newly sprung beech forest, a leading woman in the fight against global warming, and then to block the financing of wind farms and greener energy consumption with cold political calculations, are still strong cases. Oh. After all, energy is an important area and it has filled a great deal in the debate. Another area which has also filled a great deal, and rightly so, is the territory of foreigners. I went to the polls to say that Denmark must be closed to those who do not want to, and open to those who can and will, and so not as I think an opposition politician came to say from the platform open to those who want to. I never said that, because this is not just about taking care of the Danish labour market. It's about looking after Denmark in a balance, and if you're going to Denmark, it's because you want to, but it's also because you can, in the sense that you want Denmark, that you accept our values, that you want to be an active part of our society and not work against it. Then you should basically be welcome, and if you don't want to, then you shouldn't come. That is my line and that of the government, which is why I do not see foreign policy as a choice between tightening or relaxing. It's too unmanageable, it's too black and white. It is my ambition to preserve Denmark as a harmonious country in order to maintain the Danes' support for Denmark to be an open country in future as well. That is why we have made asylum restrictions, and it is not the number of them that is important and when you can put flags in a cake. It's the effect of them that's important. And the effect has been there. That is why more of those who then come have to work and earn their own money, and that is why we are taking action against parallel societies. And my governments have delivered so much with action behind the words. If, in today's debate, Mrs Frederiksen gets a little squeezed on whether it can go on now when the opposition and opposition to the opposition get the majority after the next elections, then you are told that this can be taken quite calmly because the logic of the mandates counts. The logic of the mandates counts, it is said. And then I'd like to mention two numbers, two historical numbers, and that's 137 and 45. If you look at the Folketing in the period 2011-2015, you can see that there were 137 mandates behind the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. So the mandates were there, and if you have to follow the logic of the mandates, then it is difficult to understand the second figure, namely 45. In other words, 45 facilitations based on a parliament where there were 137 mandates, which we must now understand must safeguard the policy of foreigners. Granting to a small minority is certainly a lot of influence, but apparently it was only then. Mrs Zenia Stampe remarked on Twitter, and I quote: Fair enough that Mette F will base her alien policy on DF. But then maybe she should ask if they want to be a support party for her. Well, again, when you have friends like that, what are you gonna do with... reach? Both the Radicals and the Enhedslisten have on several occasions called for influence on the policy of social democracy on foreigners, and that is certainly natural. And that is why it is actually quite natural that in this debate, which is the final debate before the next parliamentary elections, we have not been able to get Mrs Mette Frederiksen to give DF or others a real guarantee of strict foreign policy. And in this context, one might want to mention a number of ah, two, I think, and that might be the last number of the day, namely 14,700 and 3,500. 14,700 was the number of asylum seekers in 2014 • the year in which Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Minister of Justice was responsible for the area. And 3,700 last year, the number of asylum seekers was the lowest in 9 years. Anyway, today's debate has led us a long way, and it is a question of keeping our tongues straight in our mouths, you might say, and there have been many cheerful things that could be grasped, but let that be. Finally, I would just like to say briefly to our North Atlantic Members that it was nice to see that there was a very contentious debate here today about the Kingdom Community. It then falls on top of the fact that last Friday we also had a full six-hour debate, and that makes me feel that there is a genuine and very positive commitment to the Kingdom community; an interest in cooperation between our three countries. I am not going to comment in detail on that, because we had a good debate last Friday, but I would just like to say briefly to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen that I very much agree with what was said about the major challenges in the field of education. The government would be happy to cooperate with the national government if there is a desire to do so. The language issue has also filled a lot of the debate here today, as it did last Friday, and I would like to emphasise what I said last Friday, namely that I think it is a friendly advice, because it is a Greenlandic decision that you have to think well before removing Danish as the first foreign language, given that Denmark is open to all Greenlandic young people, because there is free and equal access to education. But, of course, on condition that you have the language skills that enable you to accept it as well. On the other hand, I would like to say a little more precisely to Mrs Aleqa Hammond, who suggested that there should be double standards in relation to foreign investment in Denmark and Greenland, that I can completely reject that. I have no doubt that Denmark, Greenland, the Faroe Islands and all sorts of other countries can benefit very well from foreign investment. That goes without saying, and most countries are happy to accept investment. At the same time, however, many countries have introduced mechanisms to prevent foreign acquisitions of particular strategic sectors. This applies to the United States, to Germany, and a debate is currently taking place on the issue of the introduction of investment screening in Europe, of which Denmark is a part. It is an absolutely necessary debate to have in a globalised world, and we also need to lead the Kingdom community. We have to insist on this, it is a work that we have set in motion, and we naturally hope that both Greenland and the Faroe Islands will become involved in this. Because, on the one hand, we must be open to investment and I fully recognise a Greenlandic ambition for more infrastructure investments, and I have therefore also said on several occasions and now I say again that Denmark is prepared to discuss with Greenland whether there should be a further Danish commitment to that issue. It's only natural. On the other hand, however, we should not be pale that investments, depending on the choice of partner, can also have foreign policy perspectives. And I look forward to discussing these issues further with the chairman of Naalakersuisut when I meet with him and the Faroese lagman in the Faroe Islands next month. So far as today's debate is concerned. The President of the Danish Parliament had yesterday invited you to a reception on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the third Christiansborg. This year it is 100 years since the first women were elected to the Folketing, and it was supposed to be another 97 years before the Folketing had a female chairman. It's a little thought-provoking, but it had to. And such historical anniversaries as yesterday are always a good opportunity to refresh historical facts. And a historical fact, and we may not be able to return to it, although it might be interesting, the evening is, after all, young, that until 1933, there were no rules on the limitation of speaking time for Members of Parliament. There you could simply talk as long as you wanted. But we have left that behind us, and in respect of it and in order to send a small signal that my government is not only green, but that I am also modern in my approach to things, I intend to respect the parliamentary speaking time rules and stop here and thank you for the debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530213650	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for this. And the speaking time was so respected. Now we have one hour to debate, and it is the case that party leaders who wish to speak are initially given two minutes and then one minute. Of course, the Prime Minister gets the same answer. Others get, as we usually do, 1 minute and 1⁄2 minute. The first party leader to speak is Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530213716	Thank you. I was so inspired by the review of the children's songs that I was wondering: what kind of a child's song do we have that best fits the mood of the Parliamentary Chamber right now and that at the same time illustrates the parliamentary anguish of the government? And then I found out that I think there's only one that can contain both elements, and that's of course the thing-linge-later. The second verse reads: "Now it is time for us to come home./Or our mother will be afraid,/the whole regiment will be over again. Maybe it's an expression of the mood like this right now. But it's actually the first verse I'd like to mention: Thinge-linge-later, tin soldiers,/blymat roses, bum-bum-bum./Look to the right, look to the left,/the whole regiment turns around. ▪ We have seen an incredible number of examples of this during the year and the years that have passed under this government. I am delighted as a Social Democrat because this has meant, on a very long stretch, that the blue block does not actually exist anymore when it comes to fiscal policy, when it comes to economic policy, when it comes to later withdrawal, when it comes to the re-prioritisation contribution, when it comes to immigration policy. We saw it today on the Danish People's Party's question of foreign labour. It was actually a little brave, I thought it was Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, who asked you questions about the situation of foreigners in the red bloc, because there is then I thought about what it really is like with the Left. Because when I look beyond the Chamber and listen to the debate, I know where we have the Danish People's Party in the field of foreigners, and I know where we have the Social Democracy, and I know where we have the Conservatives, and I also know where we have the SF. I also know where we have some of the other parties that do not agree with us. But where do we really have the Left in the field of foreigners? Because if it is the case that the Prime Minister today can guarantee that the Left, even after an election, intends to pursue a strict immigration policy, even as far as foreign labour is concerned, then we really do not need any more scaremongering campaigns, then we do not need any more long discussions, because then the mandates are given. Then the majority is given.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530213934	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530213936	I don't know if it's that simple. Well, I know where we have the Left, the Danes know where they have the Left; they knew that before the elections in 2011 and before the elections in 1015. Because we've never had a tradition like that of social democracy, saying: we're gonna take this course, and then we're gonna have a choice, and then we're gonna turn around on our heels, and then we're gonna go this way. We've never had one. In other words, we have had a patience that we have not always achieved our goals at the rate we would like. And we have had an understanding that, due to parliamentary circumstances, we have had to cross to get there. But we've never gone against what we went to the polls. That is, of course, the deep dividing line between the so-called blue and red block. Yes, of course there are differences, otherwise it would have been one party and not four parties. There is one party that is not a government; respect for it. But it is, of course, a discussion about how far we should go, how fast we should go, how we should get there. After all, it is not a discussion about whether we should move at all. I mean, this government has made tax cuts for 19 billion. kr. Working pays better. We have the lowest number of Danes on public support we have probably had for 14 years. People are on their way out of the cash assistance system, and yes, we've tightened up. And that's why people shouldn't be in any doubt about where the Left is. But we are not campaigning today; there is another year. But the big question is: where is Social Democracy? That's why I said the thing about the mandates just now. Because we also had the alien policy we have between 2011 and 2015. So did the Conservative People's Party; so did DF. It was 137 mandates with the Social Democratic Party. But 45 reliefs were made. I mean, if the logic of the mandates had advised, it wouldn't have happened. But there must have been some social democratic minister who was inspired by the fact that there was a government partner who withdrew from the government. And where's the guarantee that it won't happen again?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530214145	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530214147	Well, then I have three questions. First, did the Left vote for any of the relaxations in the recent reign? Did the Left vote for any of the 45 relaxations? It's just a yes or a no. There is no need to mention figures, just an answer to whether the Left voted in favour of any of the easings yes or no. I can answer if the PM can't. The second is that we have raised a question today about how the work on setting up asylum camps in the neighbourhood is progressing, so that we can set up a refugee system that both stops spontaneous asylum-seeking here, but also ensures that refugees do not travel across the Mediterranean. How's that work going? Is the government going to take responsibility for that? The third question has been raised by the Danish People's Party, and I very much welcome this: do we have to introduce conditional citizenship in Denmark? yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530214244	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530214246	When my party was in opposition from 2011 to 2015, we basically did not support the relaxed immigration policy pursued. Does this mean that we have not backed up the corners of any of what was implemented? No, of course it doesn't mean that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, It has nothing to do with cake, it has something to do with the fact that an alien policy was conducted between 2011 and 2015, which meant that the number of asylum seekers increased even before Europe really broke out in 2014. Denmark moved, became an increasingly attractive asylum destination, i.e. not only more in absolute terms, but also relatively, but we have taken control of that, so that from having been in a 5th place above the most popular asylum destinations is now down to being in a 16th place. The President will stand up and it may look as if I am not going to reply, but I would like to. I am absolutely confident that someone will follow up on the questions that were asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530214406	At least now it's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530214408	Yeah, yeah, yeah, and if you're gonna continue with those kids' songs, you could sing my dress, it's red like the sun, or see my dress, it's blue like the sea, or what about all the green that's been inside today, see my dress, it's green like the grass, and I don't know what. However, we could also try to look at the proposal for adoption that we are actually going to adopt jointly here today and look at some serious policy. The fact is that the motion for a resolution adopted by the majority of this Parliament later this evening shows that the direction of immigration policy must be maintained, it shows that temporary residence is also temporary, it shows that there must be discussions with initiatives in the wake of Germany's ceiling on family reunification. I would like to use my speaking time now and here to ask the Prime Minister to comment on the fact that this proposal for adoption brings these things forward. Temporary is temporary, and this is of course important for the Danish People's Party in relation to the whole debate we have had in the past on a so-called paradigm shift in foreign policy, where temporary stay should also be considered temporary. As far as the ceiling on family reunification is concerned, I would like to say that Germany, with effect from 1 August, introduces a ceiling on family reunification, and we are very interested in the fact that we will also have it introduced in Denmark. So I would ask the Prime Minister to comment on these few points from the proposal for adoption and his view on how to move forward on the two crucial issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530214539	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530214541	I would very much like to follow up on that and I would like to welcome the fact that we have a joint proposal for adoption. After all, we had an excellent discussion in December, where things were then linked together and where we could not achieve it, but there are elements from the discussion which, in this way, is still there and which, if there is a willingness to do so, can be dribbled into the goal. It is a combination of looking at under what circumstances you are in Denmark, if you have subsidiary protection status, and what the circumstances are about the possibility of returning home. There are a number of things that can be done, and we would like to discuss this, just as we also, of course, lively in what is happening in Germany. I have to say that we cannot finish this evening that we need to study German legislation any more. The circumstances are very different. I am not going to comment on what other countries are doing, but just say that if we in Denmark in 2015, 2016 and 2017 had had an influx of spontaneous asylum seekers like the one seen in Germany and Sweden, it would probably have come into the vicinity of over 100,000, but there really came 30,000. It's because we've had it under control. This also means that the problems that are now being faced in Germany with a number of people who have entered and who now have the opportunity to seek family reunification, are huge because of the huge number of people who, in the context of the situation in Denmark, are not under control. That is why the Germans are reacting with some kind of back to the wall that we do not have. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentioned earlier today that if you transfer the German ceiling of 1,000 per month to Danish conditions, it is equivalent to 65 or 66, and you can convert it to an annual standard, and if you do so, I think it is roughly equal to the number we can expect to seek family reunification in Denmark with the known figures. So we're not in this emergency court situation, you might say, but it's not the same as we can't explore what the Germans are doing. We have already started a dialogue on this. It is not a matter of haste, but we have started a dialogue on it, and I would also like to give an undertaking here that this is a dialogue that we must continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530214804	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530214806	I am, of course, pleased that we are continuing discussions, and that is also part of the proposal for adoption here today. For the starting point of the Danish People's Party is, of course, that if Germany has found a legal way to introduce a ceiling on the grounds that I had just said, the nation's welfare and well-being towards international conventions, which have so far been considered to be an obstacle to setting such a ceiling, then it is very difficult to imagine that a small country such as Denmark, which is north of Germany and is bound by exactly the same rules, would not also be able to introduce such a ceiling. If anyone then wishes to challenge the legal validity of such a ceiling, then there is probably a greater likelihood, with what the Prime Minister has just mentioned, that they will then challenge it in relation to the German rules before they can challenge it in relation to the Danish rules. I know that everyone is equal regardless of what or all of this, but still it has a certain weight if Germany is to be brought before a court, in relation to whether or not they have broken some rules, and there I just think that we in Denmark should give the Germans support in what they are doing and also show them that when they do put this in place, we are also willing to follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530214920	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530214922	That is precisely the crux of this debate, and that is why, after the German bill has been tabled in Parliament, we are chewing through the technical, political and legal aspects and have also had a discussion on it. After all, the situation is that and I am not going to lose myself in every detail... that there is a Danish Supreme Court ruling against the decision that we, the government and the Danish People's Party, initiated to extend the period that would have to go before one could seek family reunification if one were here on subsidiary protection to 3 years. There is a relatively precise, not to say very precise, ruling of the Supreme Court, which like fences it in and says: Here and no more. And it is certainly an element that must be taken into account when looking at how and whether a German regime which, as I stress again, was born in a situation where, to put it plainly in Danish, has not managed the influx, is something that can be translated into Danish conditions. And then I'd rather not go any further here today. I agree that we must try to reduce the number of asylum seekers as far as possible. I am ideally in agreement with this and you can see it from the government base that we want a European model that does not seek asylum in the countries and, in this way, does not cross the external border at all. There is not just a leap, but that is the path we are going to take, and the question of how attractive a country is also in comparison with others, of course quite naturally, and there is no need for Denmark to have a softer policy than that of our neighbouring countries. We have had exactly the opposite, and that is precisely why we have managed the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530215120	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530215123	Thank you. And thanks to the Prime Minister for the speech. Now I saw the Prime Minister whip up and pick up a green tie, among other things, I think because in my speech I came to say that one really knows that the Left means it when the ties are coordinated. And you get such a bit of a desire to start proposing other garments, and then we could see if we could get some fun out of what we could get dressed up as the Prime Minister as the rest will be up to free imagination. But seriously, I'd like to ask about the green tie, and what's hiding behind it is if there's a real green beating heart. Because we have all already heard how the Prime Minister travels around the world and explains about the green transition in Denmark, but the initiative the government has put forward is probably not quite as screaming green as the tie. In other words, if you look at it, you can see that there are several countries that overtake us in relation to wind farms; we can see that it does not meet the recommendations of the Climate Council, and it does not, as such, even live up to the government's own target of 50 per cent. renewable energy by 2030; energy savings will not meet the EU's minimum requirements, and this is being sought in a different way; and then it is even 40%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. In fact, it is probably more a tax proposal than an energy proposal. It also meets criticism from experts and from industry all around. So it's not just this side of the Parliamentary Chamber that says this is not gonna do it. And I know that the Prime Minister knows the consequences if we do not start to get CO2 So, the number of refugees being discussed in here is nothing compared to the situation if we do not get climate change to stop droughts, floods, extreme weather. Then your hand on your heart, sir. Prime Minister, the Prime Minister knows this can't do it, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530215342	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530215343	No, because then I would have suggested something else. Well, you can breathe up to everything and try to make yourself a better person than others, but we have set that goal and we did, the last time I was Prime Minister, that we want a fossil-free Denmark in 2050. That is a goal we have set. We worked hard at COP15, and we did that at the COP down in Paris to create global solutions. We have always worked hard in Europe to get Europe to take its collective responsibility. And we have now set and set a credible path to achieving it by saying that by 2030, half of the total Danish energy consumption, that is not only electricity, but total Danish energy consumption, must come from renewable energy.And with such a stepping stone by 2030, it is credible to achieve the great goal in 2050. And we have precisely indicated the instruments. It's no use trying to manipulate it. We have precisely indicated the instruments. We have assigned a historically large offshore wind farm, 800 MW. We have said that we need more wind; we have set the money aside for it and said that by 2022 we have to assess exactly how much wind and how. We start screening for 10 GW winds on Danish territory. In other words, if it were to be used, it would probably be equivalent to twice the total Danish electricity consumption. Because we want to go that way, and the money's there. As far as the electricity tax is concerned, it is not such a quirky attempt at any ideological tax relief thing. It is also on the basis of a professional recommendation that only yesterday the wise men were talking about the fact that if we want to make this green transition, we must of course ensure that some green energy is produced, but we must also ensure that it becomes attractive for citizens to use the green energy. And by lowering the electricity tax we create an incentive, for example. the places where there is a little longer between the houses to buy a heat pump instead of replacing your old, worn-out oil guy with a new oil guy. The prerequisite for us to be green is for us to be electrified, and that is what is, it might be said, the ambition of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530215616	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530215618	It's a crazy detour, because what you also get with lower electricity charges is a higher consumption among some of the biggest pigs and that's where you send the money. The Prime Minister also says that you want to expand offshore wind farms. Well, we'll be way overwhelmed if we settle for what the government is proposing by other countries. The Prime Minister says he works hard in Europe, but we also know that the government is working against the development of the objectives of the European Union. And with the government's initiative, the Prime Minister also knows well that even the milestone of 2030 cannot be achieved. What will then be my next question is: can we get a promise of a climate target? Because it is not enough to convert to green energy if we still consume more and more and emit more and more CO2 the Prime Minister knows that it is not by 2030 or 2050 • it is within the next term that we need emissions to go down drastically if we are to avoid disasters. So we have a tiny window, and we have to get started. Are we really getting a robust climate target from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530215733	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530215734	There is no point in Mrs Pernille Skipper just saying that the Prime Minister knows well and the Prime Minister knows well about things that are not true. Well, I don't know a whole lot of things that don't fit. I'm going to concentrate on knowing only good things that are true. And I know that what we have put forward is entirely concise and that it fits in with the fact that we can achieve what is our objective, namely 50%. in 2030. Then it is said that it is a strange detour to go. Yeah, you could say that. What is crucial is that there is a stronger incentive to use electricity. I agree, just to give it some credit, that you could theoretically achieve it in two different ways. You could put more taxes on fossil fuels, that is fossil fuels, because then electricity became competitive in that way, or you can do what we do, which is to say positive: we are making electricity cheaper. It is clear that we could be a Enhedslisten party, which thought that we could just let it be more expensive to be a Dane, and that we just have to get into their pockets and stuff like that. But we're not. That is why we are choosing the positive path, and that is what the wise men supported about yesterday. May I then say about climate targets just to remember the proportions that I think the Danish CO 2 27. That is why climate targets are a European challenge. We need Europe to make a collective commitment, and Denmark must make its relative share of a European commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530215904	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530215907	If you had to decide who you wanted to point to as Prime Minister and it was the rhetorical sharpness that was crucial, then it might be that I wanted to point to the Prime Minister. It was an excellent start that was on the speech and also the end, and then I will refrain from commenting on the intermediate. What I have to conclude from today's debate, however, is that a political monopoly has been created. I am against monopoly formations in general, and political monopoly formations are against me, too, by God. After all, there is a monopoly between the Left, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party when it comes to the area of integration and refugees. Just a good tip: when you agree, why don't you make a government together? It's just a comment. My question is on a completely different ball street, because it concerns a subject on which we have not talked very much, and that is the whole area of culture. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: When things are going so well economically in Denmark, how can it be that you save 2%? in the supporting cultural institutions every year? So, we have supporting institutions, namely the National Museum of Denmark and the State Museum of Art, which say that they cannot make it stick together, and at the same time we have an excellent economy. You can't cut 2%. of the ballet Lake Swan, you can't play Beethoven's symphonies 2 per cent. Faster. So why does the government have the cultural policy that you want to save 2%? Every year at the cultural institutions when the economy is so good?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530220058	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530220058-2	Thank you. In other words, we do not have a policy of just cutting 2%. On everything every year. We have a policy with a re-priority contribution introduced quite broadly in the state sector, where, as a starting point, we ask all areas to deliver 2%. In this way, we will have a room for manoeuvre that can be given priority. That, then, is what we do, every year we make finance law, where we decide how to reinvest the money that is released. We have, among other things. in the field of vocational education, by delivering its 2%, and then we have reinvested the money to a large extent. That is how we take a position on it every year when we put forward our draft budget: should we give more priority to culture? Should we give priority to more education and more research? I'm just gonna call on Mr. Knox. Uffe Elbæk to join the financial law debate because if you want to take co-responsibility, you can also have participation. Then maybe I'm gonna arrest that picture because it's going well with the economy out there, and we're just gonna swim in money, too. We don't. It has to be understood that the Social Democrats are concerned that we have so little money that they will not invest any of them in green conversion. That's what they told us yesterday and today. The room for manoeuvre is obviously too small for them to dare to bring some of it into play for wind turbines and solar heat and green conversion. I do not know how the Social Democracy and the Alternative weigh windmills up against Lake Swan, I do not know. All I know is that there isn't that much money. But from my point of view, there is an invitation to join and take responsibility. It could be exciting to have the alternative as a financial law partner. We are completely open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530220247	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530220251	I will not interfere with the current debate between the government and the Social Democratic Party in relation to the room for manoeuvre, but I would just like to say that the Prime Minister was pleased to say that he has spent 19 billion. kr. on tax reliefs. Well, the money's there. The question is, what are we going to use them for? My second question relates to the way in which the public service sector has been cut, because this is a saving of more than 1.1 billion. kr. over the years on the public service at a time when we know how important it is to make the population smarter. When we know that we are faced with fake news when we know that there is massive pressure on public information, I simply do not understand why we are choosing to save public service in the way we do it today. So I'm looking at culture, but I'm also looking at public service, and what I want, of course, and there I actually think the Prime Minister agrees with me is a wise, knowledgeable and culturally strong nation, and on these two points we see a downgrade. I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530220356	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530220357	But we certainly agree that this is the ambition we have. We apparently look at it differently, but we now have a very sure idea that with a reduced framework for Denmark's Radio as the one we have pre-described with the Danish People's Party and which somewhere is a premise for the current media negotiations, we are able to lift this public service responsibility in what will continue to be a leading Danish cultural institution with a very, very large billion budget, i.e. Denmark's Radio. That is our approach to it. Then I have to arrest this idea that it's all a zero-sum game, which is also at its root when you say you've spent 19 billion. kr. on tax incentives; you could have done something else. Some of this money we've spent to make Denmark richer. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. If we are to ensure that it is now better to work for people with small incomes, it is, together with good economic conditions, an incentive for people to move from passive support to earning their own money. It is then a social policy achievement that we have the lowest number of Danes on passive support we have had for 14 years and that instead of having Mr. Uffe Elbæk's tax money earns its own and pays tax and thus also creates a greater wealth, which everything else equal makes it easier in 1 year and 2 and 3 years to prioritise money for culture or money for research than we would have if it were still the case that a very large part of the budget went to transfer income. So it is investment in entrepreneurship, in business, in job creation, in people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530220540	The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530220543	There has been a lot of focus on children's songs, but it is because the assembly overhears the Thomas Helmig quotes that the Prime Minister throws in and also made the speech to the Crown Prince. Today it was something with the sight most of it, tried a bit of each, and then one just misses the addition was easy and had it difficult. Perhaps I can then supplement with another, I think, strong quote, which is: "There will probably come a day when reason returns." Because that is what I hear the Prime Minister talking about here today when he talks about the fact that it is far too unmanageable to talk about austerity and relaxations. I think that's right. But then we constantly return to the 45 concessions made under the last government. At my last count, the 14 of them are still standing. This is among other things. double citizenship. I assume that both opinions and opinions still point to the fact that the Left supports dual citizenship. It was one of them. Then there are disasters such as allowing researchers easier access to the Danish labour market. I assume that this is something the Left still wants and that the government would actually want it to be able to get through a relaxation similar to what we got under the last government. So if it is to be nuanced, if reason is to be given the opportunity to return, then surely we should also have a look at the debate that is being held here in the Assembly on those issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530220719	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530220721	Well, reason doesn't come back because it's already here. It hasn't left us at all. We are pursuing a sensible two-legged policy. One leg has been about on top of 14,700 asylum seekers in 2014 and a Europe that began shortly after the 2015 parliamentary elections to tighten up on spontaneous asylum applications, by postponing the deadlines for seeking family reunification, in the form of integration benefits, but also in the wake of making agreements with the social partners to make those who came earn their own money, which we have actually succeeded in doing quite well. That's part of it. Then there is another part of what is not about refugees and spontaneous asylum seekers and economic migrants, but about ensuring that Denmark has an open labour market. On that agenda, I have to say that Parliamentarianism and democracy are such that it is difficult to find the majority that will help to nuance some of the models we have. We have been surrounded by a majority which has made the use of the funds more difficult. Only yesterday we saw a majority blocking more flexible opportunities for side-job openings for people, who we have thus let into Denmark and granted a work permit and said they can be here. If they then say that next to the work they have, they want to work an hour at another company, then they have to apply. There's a lot of bureaucracy. We'd like to relax those things. I have to say that there is no majority in favour of this. But it has nothing to do with the government. Because the government has a sensible, balanced approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530220916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530220918	I can hear that we agree that the next time the Prime Minister refers to the foreign policy of the previous government, it will be with more nuances than 45 relaxations that would have been best left out, as long as 14 of them stand, and that it would like to have more relaxations of the same nature, for example. to be able to invite more skilled workers from abroad. But when we're playing beard with numbers... if the fine person from the Danish Radio with the fake beard can continue to move freely in society, when the cover ban has also been passed... then I could understand that it is so that the crucial thing is the number of asylums in a single year. It is like what documents whether a policy is effective or Then I just saw that in 2006, it was under Anders Fogh Rasmussen, there were 1,960 asylum seekers, now that we're playing with numbers today. Then I would just like to make an offer: let us then reinstate the alien law that was in force in 2006 under Anders Fogh Rasmussen. It has given the probably lowest number of asylum seekers in this millennium. It will probably be somewhat lighter than both the one we have today and the one we had under the previous government. But isn't that frankly, Prime Minister, a little bit sloppy and unmanageable?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530221032	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530221035	Yes, it is, and that is why I do not understand why the questioner is bringing it up. I have to say, I don't understand. In other words, comparing the situation in 2006 with what we have now does not hold up. The situation is that we are faced with the world we have today; with the wars and challenges we have; with an Africa that is not really able to exploit its potential; with a world that is becoming smaller; with young Africans who can see on their phone that the grass looks greener on the other side of the Mediterranean; with smugglers who have put things into a system that is all we have to deal with. It's the real world. Sir. Morten Østergaard himself has been out in reality, and if you go further than just to Danish ghetto areas, you can see that this is the reality. We have to deal with that, and we have to give a turn. In order to give half an answer to what Mrs Mette Frederiksen asked me about, which I could not answer, the solution to this is to see from the government base that Europe is setting itself up differently; to close its borders; to make arrangements with countries in the neighbourhood that this is where you apply if you are on the run; to ensure that people are properly admitted to quotas to the extent that you can integrate them. That is the solution, and that is what we are working towards. Other countries have been later than us to understand this seriousness. This is very much why Denmark started to go alone with tightenings that brought us in CNN and all sorts of places we were screaming out but which is today comme il faut, today is consensus policy. And we have to maintain that position, because we do not want a Denmark that you come to if you are not invited.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530221227	The next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530221230	After all, the Prime Minister started this debate by being happy, I'd say almost cheerful, yes, so much that the Prime Minister actually changed his tie to a green tie. But now I can see that the black is back, and the prime minister has also become a little bit pissed off. If I should be a little friendly, I think that the Prime Minister may be an A-human, just like I am, and yet not, because the Prime Minister is active on Twitter a little later than I am at night, so I guess that's not true. But I'd still like to get back to that green tie. Because I think it is absolutely crucial that Denmark is a green pioneering country. We're still gone, and I'm happy to admit that. But now that we are looking at what the government has done in the field of energy, I think we really need to speed up. The government has halved the funds for energy research. The government spends more money on lightening taxes and tariffs in the energy sector than it spends on investing in renewable energy, and the government envisages a very, very small effort in the area of energy saving. That's exactly the last part I'd like to wear in the meat. Because there are Danish companies that make a living from the fact that we have been at the forefront in terms of energy savings. I can mention Velux, Rockwool, Danfoss, Grundfos, just to mention some of them. That is because we have dared to invest in energy savings, including energy saving. in industry, in our building stock, and it has created jobs, but it has also resulted in our energy consumption not increasing. Since 1980, we have doubled our economy without having doubled our energy consumption in the same way. Now the government is putting up a very small effort to save energy. Let me just give you a picture: every year we have used 10 petajoule so far. In advance, we use 0.6 petajoule a year. That is a very great deterioration. Perhaps the Prime Minister would still like to look again, put on the green tie, get a little happier, a little more cheerful and then maybe also dare to bet on some of the things that create jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530221434	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530221435	Yes, but in reality there may not be room for so much cheerfulness when we talk about the historic effort to save energy, because the scheme that I admit was more expensive than what we have now proposed was a system that was extremely criticised. Well, there are a lot of reports. I would think that the Reichsaudit has been through if I'm not very wrong, and has skin braided it skin braided it because it might well be that the aim was to save energy, but there was a lot of hot air and a lot of energy consultants. Well, now we're gonna have to be serious here, too. There was a scheme that didn't work where we burned taxpayers' money without effect. That's what it was. I can't do that. That is why we are proposing that we now make this much more targeted with effect, and we have added an amount to it is 400 million? Yes, I don't remember all the figures in my head, which are our best bid to do something that is effectively targeted industry, which has two objectives: firstly, to ensure energy efficiency and, of course, also to ensure that competitive Danish companies continue to have a showcase. It is quite fair if those with whom we have to negotiate say: is that an amount that is large enough? Are we gonna discuss whether it's gonna be bigger? We'd be happy to do that. We just have the challenge that has emerged here in the last 24 hours that the willingness to pay is not there because Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's closest ally, the Social Democracy, says that you can only use the green space. It doesn't appear until the year 2023. So there is no crown to make anything for in 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, unless there are suddenly some socialist proposals for some opposing savings or something. But from the government's point of view, we would very much like to discuss whether that amount should be adjusted. Well, we've never imagined that we're gonna make a move, and then the whole parliament just sits around and says, "We're gonna take it." But it is just a part of history that the historical justification for proposing a new model is that the old one did not work on a waste of tax dollars! It is also part of this picture that since the last time we made energy agreements, we have, after all, created a housing job scheme that we have permanently created, which means that the country's homeowners have an opportunity to make investments, including in energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530221711	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530221713	I do not think that there is the party in Christiansborg that does not recognise that the way in which energy savings have been made needs to be revised. I think we have all agreed to that. So that discussion is, in effect, off the table. What is interesting is how much one intends to throw into energy savings. So there's a difference between talking 10 petajoule a year or 0.6 that's a dramatic reduction. I think that is just a little important for the government to acknowledge, that is to say, that you do not have the same level of ambition. So when the government has repeatedly said today that the government is at least as green as everyone in the past, then that is not correct. Then the Prime Minister says it is possible to negotiate. SF is definitely ready for that. And I'd like to arrest the fact that there's no money for it. Even today's Social Democratic and Danish People's Party reports, there is money for it, if we are among others. Looking at the tariffs. After all, the government is proposing that in future it should be the state which finances, among other things. the network connection. So today it is the consumer who is doing it. We could maintain that it is still the consumer who does so, because then there will be 1.5 billion. kr., and it is more than enough to actually also have an ambitious effort in the green area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530221831	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530221833	I just want to make a little mistake. I have not said that we are as green as previous governments I have said that we are greener. And then there is the other thing, which may well show the difference between our thinking, because Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says that what matters is what you put into the scheme. No, what matters is what comes out of the scheme. I mean, we spent in the old scheme 1.4 to 1.5 billion. kr., and it was planned down in report after report because we did not get energy efficiency for the money. Then we propose a new model. And then it shouldn't be measured by whether we're ready to spend as much as we used in a silly way before without effect. It has to be measured by what comes out of it. And as I said, we have given our best offer, but this is like everything else for discussion. I'm getting a little worried about the idea of putting it all on the tariffs. We have thus just spent a lot of effort and made a broad agreement to remove the PSO, because in Denmark we had arranged ourselves in a way in which we financed the green conversion in a burdensome way for our manufacturing companies. That is why we made a broad agreement to remove the PSO and move the green transition into the Finance Act. That is also why I am a little surprised that when we have to make a green transition, some of the parties say that they would rather not spend money on it. But moving it out on consumers, on companies, is therefore a bad idea. Therefore, this is a balance between going green, maintaining our leading position, not making it more expensive to be a Dane, making it more interesting to use electricity over other forms of energy. After all, we believe that what we have put forward represents a reasonable balance, but we are quite open to the fact that it must, of course, be negotiated. I hope that it will succeed before the summer comes in earnest, not measured by temperature, but in the form of summer holidays, to have a broad agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530222028	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530222030	Thank you very much. It's interesting to follow this discussion about who's the greenest. After all, there are many of us in Greenland who are concerned about this with ensuring a good climate. However, I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister and the Government for the sensitivity that exists. Because it is important to stress that it is immensely important for Greenland and for Denmark that there is this sensitivity. There is a need for more of us to seek solutions rather than confrontation, so I think that is important to emphasise. Earlier today, I asked the leader of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, a question about the Commonwealth, and I would really like to ask the Prime Minister the same question: how can we help to renew and develop the Commonwealth together? And then I would like to add the question: how are we going to do this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530222129	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530222131	One way I think we could renew the kingdom community and especially in the relationship between Denmark and Greenland is to start working together and talk to each other honestly about things that in reality lie in one place or another. There are a number of areas that have gone home to Greenland, and there I think we should be careful not to be touched and say: Greenland has taken that home, so we don't mean anything about it; we can't do anything about it; it has to be solved by Greenland itself. I think we need to build a bridge there, and that is why I keep coming back to the infrastructure issue. Yes, Greenland has its own economy. There is a block grant and there is the economy you can travel in Greenland yourself. It is a sensible Greenlandic ambition to develop its infrastructure, and I can see from the Greenlandic debate that it does not seem to me that someone like me should be overly concerned. That's one approach to it. Another approach could be to say: well, it is true that we ourselves have an interest in the infrastructure, and they should not as such mean anything about it, but that is why we can talk about it. Because it could be that there was a perspective in working on it. So it should be my very specific offer that instead of saying that this is Danish authority, and that this should not be allowed to interfere, and that this is a Greenlandic task, and that we should not interfere in that, we had a more open discussion. In fact, I think that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has contributed to this in relation to the tasks that still remain Danish tasks in Greenland, by participating much more actively in the parliamentary work and also seeking to influence conciliation and finance laws with a completely different dynamic from that which may have been seen historically, where tradition has more been the fact that the North Atlantic members as well as slipped into some of the parliamentary party groups and then sought influence from within the parties. So I would like to congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530222333	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530222335	Thank you very much for that comment and praise. I am thinking that some of what we have discussed over the years in the relationship between Greenland and Denmark has also been old laws. There are laws from the 1950s and from the 1960s, which still apply in Greenland while they are updated in Denmark. I think it might be interesting to play with the idea when we need to renew a kingdom community and develop a kingdom community, whether you should have a working group or a commission or something else that works effectively to get those laws updated. Could that be something the Prime Minister might be interested in?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530222411	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530222412	In any case, I do not wish to deny that. But we do need to have that dialogue with Greenland, and here we have the challenge that Greenlandic politicians, with whom we really have the closest dialogue in everyday life in political work, are Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Mrs Aleqa Hammond, who sit here as members of parliament and can colour and influence things in many ways, and we can go a long way, and I have great respect for it. But when it comes to promoting such an idea as is outlined here, it has to be in a more direct relationship between Denmark and Greenland, that is, the Greenlandic Government. I think that has also been the case in recent debates, including last Friday, rather inquisitive about getting closer dialogue and I myself think that I have sent invitations to the open space to the effect that we would like to have a stronger commitment. I hope that on top of the new government formation at the Kingdom meeting in February we can have a closer dialogue on how we can work together to enrich not only Greenland and not only Denmark, but both on the basis that 1 + 1 is not 2 but 3 in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530222531	The next question is Mr. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530222533	Thank you. The Prime Minister has been very concerned about talking about the green and telling us that the government is the most green government ever seen in the history of Denmark. That's how you have to understand it. At the same time, the Prime Minister has also been preoccupied with child songs. It has even been the case that the Prime Minister, in a moment's impulse to show how green he is, put on a green tie. However, it only lasted about half an hour, so it was changed with the blacks, and if you're going to go to the children's song department and find a picture of how it really has been with this government in terms of the environment and climate, then I'm thinking of the bear Sover. Because we have had a Prime Minister and a government that has been snoring in this area for three years, and now that the elections are approaching, it is better to look a little green. Then you have come up with a proposal, and you have even sent your energy minister on the line today and said that social democracy is black. That is such a little bit like accusing the pope of being an atheist. It doesn't have much time on earth. So my question to the Prime Minister is really very simple: when you put aside all the rhetoric and all the attempts to suspicious your political opponents, should we not look at what is really on the table? The Prime Minister has proposed one wind farm at sea, we propose three. That is why I would like to hear from the Prime Minister when he says that he is so green: is the Prime Minister prepared to make a joint ambition that we should have three wind farms at sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20180530222721	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530222723	It may say a little about social democratic self-understanding that one compares oneself with the pope, and it may be that faith can move mountains, but one cannot set up a windmill with faith, because it takes money. What is the challenge with the Social Democrats' reports yesterday and today is that the Social Democrats say that they will not use any room for manoeuvre to invest in the green transition; they will only use the so-called green room for manoeuvre, which thus does not exist in 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022. You can't build anything for that. Well, then it's against better-knowing when Mr. Knox... Nicolai Wammen says we only want to build one offshore wind farm, and you want to build three. That's wrong. If you read our proposal, you can see that we are saying: We will build a wind farm of 800 MW, the largest ever built in Denmark. There is not one in the world today that is so large that supplies energy, electricity, corresponding to the consumption in the seven largest cities. And then we say, more wind energy is needed. Therefore, we say that we will immediately start screening for 10 GW, and we say that in 2022 we will have to decide exactly where and how and how many offshore wind turbines we will then build. So we're not just saying that one should be built. It is actually open whether to build two or three or four. If it is very important for the Social Democrats that we are already deciding that it is not just one, but that it is something more, let us talk about it. The prerequisite is that you come in with some money. Because otherwise it's just green bluff, excuse me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530222911	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530222912	Well, it's nice if the Prime Minister is on the move tonight. The Social Democratic Party has proposed three wind farms at sea... the Prime Minister has until this evening only spoken of one. Now I hope that when we get to the finance minister's negotiating room, that is the new position for the government. It's gotta be exciting to see. With regard to the fact that there must of course be money for the initiatives... it goes without saying that what the Social Democratic Party has made very clear is that the money that should otherwise be spent on our elderly, on our sick and on our children, we do not want the Prime Minister to spend on tax reductions in the energy sector. We have also said, as far as funding is concerned, that there is a green room for manoeuvre and that we can also look at advancing the funding of the PSO. And as recently as here today an agreement has been made at least we have come to an understanding that makes an additional 400 million have arrived. kr. a year. The short of the long, sir. Prime Minister, of course any agreement we make with each other will be financed crown to crown. What is the question is what that agreement should contain. That is why I would like to give another concrete example. We have suggested that in Denmark there should be 500,000 green cars • the government has not proposed any figures. Will the government agree to that ambition? Can we share that? Can we put the talk aside and move on to the action? Because then there will actually be something we can do together.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530223047	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530223048	Well, why do we only need 500,000? Why don't we have 600,000? Or 700,000? Or another number? And it's not to mess with it, but it's just because it's very interesting with the kind of play written on the back of a napkin: three wind farms, 0.5 million electric cars and not one single hint of a tool to reach it. I mean, what is the instrumental needed to get 500,000 electric cars? Is it the tax that has to be abolished and what about the revenue lost? Where's the money coming from? Well, that's very nice of you to say, sir. Nicolai Wammen says that you do not make agreements without the money being there, but it would dress the Social Democracy, when you put forward proposals, that you also point out where the money should come from. And there I have to say that until now we have heard nothing but that we must not use the room for manoeuvre, but only the green room for manoeuvre, and the green room for manoeuvre is not enough. Firstly, it is not there until 2023, and secondly, even if it was there before, it is not enough to finance everything that the Social Democrats say they want to do. And that is why it becomes a little light and reminds us of the proposals that came from the Social Democratic Party in the period up to 2011 - that is, 12 minutes - and everything was possible, and the voters were terribly disappointed afterwards, because it did not stick to a more detailed calculation over in the Ministry of Finance when, according to the former Minister of Finance, they went on to use common methods of calculation. However, if the Social Democrats come up with funding proposals, we are happy to discuss this because we have an ambition, and our ambition also goes beyond building an offshore wind farm, as Mr. Nicolai Wammen, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530223236	The clock is ticking, and we have room for two questioners yet. The first is sir. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530223244	Thank you, Mr President. This follows on from the question put by Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and the answer she received. Has the Prime Minister, with all the knowledge he now has, the very special knowledge he has, both for Danish and Faroese matters, even thought about how he can contribute to creating a change in the constitutional basis for the future development of cooperation between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, rather than continuing to hold on to one, what should one say, style in which one tries to fill in a home government law that has long since expired, if I may say so? For it has been exhausted; it does not provide room for the room for the space needed to create a sensible and constructive cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530223338	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530223339	Well, the short answer is: No, I actually haven't. Because I have the impression that with that, as Mr. Magni Arge calls the constitutional framework, i.e. the constitution as a basic framework for the Commonwealth, are good opportunities to develop the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark, also in a more independent direction with more self-determination and more self-indulgence. And I haven't met with a Faroese claim on it either. Now I'm not just talking about sir. Magni Arge and Tjóðveldi, but that is about the Faroese community as such. On the contrary, I have seen that there is a constitution in the Lagthing, which is now oversummer, which respects the Danish constitution. So if it expresses the Faroese Latting's wish to have an identity document with full respect for the Constitution, so that you read it from the draft law's comments, there is no reason to upset the constitutional framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530223446	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530223448	Thank you, sir. Prime Minister. The Constitution also contains a preamble confirming the external right of self-determination, if I may say so, and the Faroese people's, what to say, supreme authority over the Faroe Islands. So I do not entirely agree with the PM's interpretation of it. But back to this. I have explained today what happened in 1918 when people moved from an Icelandic home government system to a personal union, which was a very natural step to take at that time, and where I think it would also be very natural to go one step further where we have reached today, because we have completely completed the framework created in 1948. And I just want to hear the Prime Minister consider it at least, because he is perhaps the only prime minister in the last 100 years and the next 100 years who has such a great insight, and therefore he should have created an opportunity to walk new paths instead of just holding onto something that we know will not last anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530223555	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530223556	Thank you so much for the compliment, if that's a compliment to me. Or maybe it's just an indictment of that level, sir. Magni Arge seems there has generally been in Danish politics when it comes to knowledge of the Faroe Islands. But, sir... Magni Arge himself assess. When I react as I do, it is because I also think I have a knowledge that the basic attitude to the Kingdom community, as Mr. Magni Arge used to refer to as the so-called Kingdom Community, is not someone I experience as being broadly based in the Faroese community. If this changes over time, I can say in general terms that as long as I am here, I will always respond positively to enquiries from the Faroese people. I am a warm supporter of the Kingdom community. I believe that the Faroe Islands can be further developed with greater autonomy in all dimensions within the framework of the Danish constitution. If you come across a wall that matters, I will always respond positively to a desire to adjust things, of course I will, but until that happens, I am like Mr. Magni Arge bound by the Danish constitution. It takes precedence and it must be interpreted in the light of the patina it has, and it is not a political decision for me to sit and interpret it. That's my approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530223734	The last question is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530223736	Thank you. In his speech this morning the Prime Minister ironized a little over the American dream and said it is a dream that turns inwards, it has become a dream of isolation. Those were very critical words that fell. Then there was talk of who should have leadership in the world, and it was clear that the Prime Minister said it was Europe. And it wasn't America. What prevents Europe from taking leadership are the reservations which, among other things, are: Denmark has in the EU cooperation. Should the Prime Minister's words this morning be understood as a first step towards a struggle to remove the reservations that Denmark has in the crucial fields? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530223818	We need a little more quiet in the Chamber. Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530223819	I certainly think that in the debate on European policy there is a need to detaboo the Danish reservations. I am not reporting any referendums. I do not see a referendum before me right at the outset, and certainly not during this parliamentary term. But we need to have a thorough debate, too, about the reservations of a Europe that is developing, in a world that is changing. And I actually believe that we need to have that debate just without a deadline for a referendum. Because I have been able to note that, in all previous considerations, it sands up in black and white immediately. And we need to have a wider debate. For example, do you take... The defence reserve, is it true, that Denmark is known for and acknowledged for our strong military commitment also around in sharp missions and the Foreign Minister and the Secretary of Defense have just been praised in the United States at their meetings with the US Secretary of Defense and Foreign Minister on Friday. There is also a United States which places greater demands on Europe to ensure its own security, and it certainly cannot be ruled out that over time a kind of division of labour is going to develop, where Europe is going to carry out a greater task of reconstruction on top of conflicts. If you look into that future, it may seem paradoxical that an activist country such as Denmark, which is known to be standing forever, can run under a NATO hat or coalition and do the hard work, but if you have to build up afterwards, and that happens under the auspices of the European Union, then our boys and girls will have to go home. Well, that's where our reservations are going to be in a different light because things change in the future. And I want that debate. It may be that I am naive, but so, I insist, we should be able to take this debate without saying in advance: that is why we must vote on the Danish defence reserve on and on the day, that and that year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530224035	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530224036	Thank you for that fine answer. After all, the Prime Minister also said that Europe must then be the adult in the class. But there is a lot of unrest in Europe. Can Europe be the adult in the class when there is total chaos in Italy, when what is going on in Hungary and Poland is happening when we are struggling with Brexit, etc., and there is so much uncertainty? Can it be imagined that the Nordic countries, although outside the European Union and within the European Union, outside NATO and within NATO, entered into much closer foreign and defence policy cooperation than has been done so far, and thus tried as the adult in Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530224122	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530224123	Yes, you can do that in the sense that there is a need for closer dialogue in the Nordic countries for many good reasons. The Nordic countries, with all the differences we have, appear to be attractive social models, and now we have fought about who is the most green and at what time, and I just have to say that when you count the controversy from, all these countries, including under changing governments, are exemplary examples for the rest of the world on a number of parameters. In a world in which some turn their backs on international agreements and multilateral solutions and that things are regulated by agreements and start to speak the law of the strong, it makes quite good sense for those countries to coordinate more than they have done, and that is what happens on a practical level. I believe that very recently the Danish Defence Minister had a meeting with the Swedish Defence Minister, although Sweden is outside NATO, to discuss concrete cooperation. I see it more as, it might be said, a Nordic basis for shaping the European debate. Then I fully admit that Europe has its challenges, precisely because Europe is not a federal state, but a co-operation of 28 countries at the moment, and when new governments come along, it has to be shaken. But there's just not so many other places to go. I believe that Denmark's position should be to stick to the strongest transatlantic relationship possible, because the Americans are our closest allies, and at the same time to cultivate the European dimension. And thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale to bring up this dimension so late in the debate, because it is such a very big and crucial issue, and I think it has been gratifying that we have also rounded this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530224310	There is no room for further brief remarks, so I would like to thank the Prime Minister. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption. Members find themselves in their seats; it looks good.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530224321	There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 71 by Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Britt Baker (V), Christina Egelund (LA) and Mette Abildgaard (KF), and voting is possible. The vote was closed. 61 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstained from voting 0. Proposal for adoption No V 71 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 70 by Mette Frederiksen (S), Pernille Skipper (EL) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and proposals for adoption no. V 72 by Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and Morten Østergaard (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180530224459	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 31 May 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
