ParlaMint-DK_20180906090007	The meeting is open. I would like to welcome everyone after some summer holidays and, for others, a small break in the debates. For the agenda of the Danish Parliament on Thursday, 6 September 2018, Brian Mikkelsen of the Conservative People's Party has informed me that he is resigning from his duties as a member of the Folketing per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. To the same agenda today, Thursday, September 6, 2018, Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party, has informed me that she is resigning as a member of the Folketing per year. 5 September 2018. On the same agenda, Thursday 6 September 2018, Esben Lunde Larsen, Left, has informed me that he is resigning as a member of the Folketing per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On the same agenda, Thursday, 6 September 2018, I have been informed by a member of the Folketing Merete Dea Larsen, who has been on leave, that from 22 August 2018 onwards she will be able to give another meeting in the Parliament so that it will also go the other way. Per Nørhaves's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. The debate on finance law today will be interpreted in sign language so that the deaf can follow the debate. The sign language interpretation can be found directly on the Danish Parliament's website, www.ft.dk, and subsequently on demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906090157	Rasmus Jarlov (KF) has applied for leave from 6 September 2018, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 point E, while Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and Zenia Stampe (RV) have both applied for leave from 6 September 2018, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4, and Holger K. Nielsen has applied for leave from 30 September 2018, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 A. If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave of absence should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906090303	For the sake of good order, I must point out that the agenda item and the committee's recommendation are of course also concerned with the approval of the deputy as a temporary member of the Danish Parliament for Holger K. Nielsen (SF), as stated in the item on the agenda. 1. I assume that there are no objections to this. From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Conservative People's Party in Sjællands Storkredr, Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing from 22 June 2018, after Brian Mikkelsen resigned on 21 June 2018, that the First Deputy of the Social Democratic Party in Nordsjællands Storkredr, Lunderød Lunderød, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing as from 6 September 2018, after Christine Antorini resigned on 5 September 2018, and that the Second Deputy of the Left in Vestjyllands Storkredrreder, Carsten Kissmeyer, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing from 2 October 2018, when Esben Lunde Larsen resigns his mandate per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It should be noted that the first deputy indicated that he did not wish to take over the vacancy. I have also received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Conservative People's Party in Copenhagen Omregns Storkreds, Merete Scheelsbeck, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 6 September 2018 on the occasion of the leave of Mr Rasmus Jarlov, first deputy of the Enhedslisten in Østjyllands Storkreds, Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 6 September 2018 on the occasion of the leave of Mr Nikolaj Villumsen, first deputy of the Radical Left in Sjællands Storkredskredråd, Rasmus Helveg Petersen, as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 6 September 2018 on the occasion of Zenia Stampe, and that the First Deputy of the Socialist People's Party in Københavns Storkreds Storkredskredr, Serdal Benli, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 30 September 2018 on the occasion of Holger K. Nielsen's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906090530	As you know, voting must take place by standing up at my request. I'm going to ask Erling Bonnesen and Karen Klint to conduct the count. The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. The Members who vote against are asked to stand up and the others to sit down. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. It's time to count. It's a difficult task in this case. Then I've got an attitude from our two voice counters. 3, specified manner). In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The Committee's position has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906090701	I would point out that, after the agenda has been published, Amendment No No has been tabled outside the supplementary report. 8 and 9. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906090745	As you know, the vote must take place by Members standing up at my request. I'd like to ask you, sir. Erling Bonnesen and Mrs Karen J. Klint to conduct the count. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. We'll thank you for that. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. Then we'll have the votes in a minute. 3, specified manner). In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 86 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 2, 3 and 7, tabled and joined by the same minorities as rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4-6, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF)? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 8 and 9 other than the supplementary report adopted by the Minister for Taxation. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906090949	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906091002	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you for that, too. Then we'll have the votes in a minute. 3, specified manner). In favour of 81 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906091149	The negotiations have been opened, and the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Benny Engelbrecht of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906091213	Last year I stood on the platform on behalf of the Social Democratic Party and urged the government to come out in reality. Now we are standing here again, and this year it says "More security and more proximity" on the front page of the government's draft Finance Bill. It almost sounds like the Minister for Finance has actually been out there in the real world. But you will be disappointed when you look up the budget bill, because the government is continuing its efforts to save the last three years on core welfare. It changes a single budget law in an election year when you're playing Santa, not on. I think the Danes are experiencing that our welfare societies are under pressure in these years. This is the consequence of three consecutive years of government cuts in welfare. While there are more children and older people, the government saves so that there are fewer public employees to care for them. That's reality. Recently, I saw a hilarious film with Christopher Walken and Michael Pitt. They've got a great scam going on. It simply grabs people's dogs, and then they wait for the owner to put up flyers and offer a handsome reward. Then they turn the dog in, they get the money, and then they pretend to be the big heroes. It might remind you of what we're doing here, doesn't it? But I think that the Danes will soon see through the scam that the government is trying to do. Because even if you hand out gifts in a single election year and spend money on gourmet restaurants and e-sports, which can be fine initiatives in itself, then it can be felt when the core of our welfare society is weakened. The truth is that welfare has been eroded with the Prime Minister at the helm, and the government will continue that course after the election year. In reality, this has meant that employees in the care of the elderly and health care must run faster to do their job and they must run even faster in the future. Last week I had the pleasure of meeting Martin. Martin is a sosu assistant at the Centre for Short-term Places in Sønderborg Municipality. This is where older citizens come to an assessment or rehabilitation stay when they are discharged from the hospital but are not yet ready to make it in their own homes. Here the citizen is then for a period of one week, it may be up to several months. But unlike at the hospital, it is not without cost, because in Sønderborg you have to pay 123 DKK. on the day of the stay. Martin explained to me that this means that many people care, because it can be difficult to make it stick together when a single pensioner has to get rid of 861 kroner. a week to be sick. It happens that the citizens say to Martin: I have to go home. It is not because they are healthy, but simply because they can no longer afford it. It's not safe, and we have to make that right. It should not cost patients money to get healthy in the Danish health care system. For social democracy, free and equal access to health is a cornerstone of our welfare society. Social democracy will therefore end the unfair user charges that are in emergency places for older citizens. And that's more security and proximity. The Social Democratic Party has presented a 2025 plan for the Danish economy. This is our guide to how we support and develop the unique Danish welfare society. In the social democracy we stick to our plans, but the government changes plans as the wind blows. Our 2025 plan is reflected in our financial law priorities for 2019. We will invest in the core of the Danish model, in the welfare of all. It has been 10 years since the greatest economic crisis in recent times hit. Fortunately, political diligence has ensured that we have come out on the other side and that even today we are in a boom in which we have finally closed the gap in employment that arose as a result of the financial crisis. That's good. But it also means that there is now air in the economy to make a choice as to whether we should support and develop the foundation on which our welfare society is built so that everyone can go safely into old age with certainty that there is time for care and care in our last year, or whether the current government's austerity course should continue. In fact, that election is not just about the coming election year, but it is also about the years after 2019, where the Danes have crossed their lines, but where there will continue to be a need for us to give priority to welfare. It is basically a choice on how to prioritise the economic space created. In the Social Democratic Party, we have no waltzes. We must create security for welfare. It is not just empty election promises and slogans that are put up in big ads and that do not hold when they have to be translated into the shaved budgets. Since the current government has arrived in 2015, 5,000 fewer employees have already been employed in the public sector. It is deeply worrying, and it leaves its mark. In the City of Jammerbugt it is every ten employees who have disappeared, in the municipality of Lolland almost every five. We have seen savings in welfare over the last three years, and the government's own plans clearly show that it is a style that will continue forward. A single year of electoral gifts cannot change that, because once the election year is over, the government plans to continue to save on our welfare societies. Unfortunately, this will also be reflected in the number of nursing staff in the area of the elderly, nurses in hospitals and educators in kindergarten. After all, welfare is very much about there being enough staff to ensure the dignity of old age and security for our children. If you ask in the Ministry of Finance, they will count as always, and they have calculated that, with the current government's plans for the period from 2020 to 2025, there will be 10,000 fewer public employees. No matter how you turn it around, good intentions of debureaucratisation cannot cover up such massive cuts. As the financial bill presented in the Social Democratic Party this morning shows, we have four main priorities for the Danish Finance Act for 2019: We need to ensure security of welfare, we need to invest in Danish jobs and a green and sustainable Denmark, and we need to ensure greater fairness in our tax system. The main priority of social democracy is firstly to ensure a stronger welfare society with better care and dignity in our care for the elderly, so that there is security for our elderly to have a dignified old age and where we re-establish closeness. As older people grow older, no equivalent funds have been allocated to care for the elderly. When only one in four Danes is confident that they can expect a dignified care for the elderly, then we must take action. There must be enough time and staff to ensure presence. That is why we will give priority to a significant increase in care for the elderly in 2019 and we need to have a fight with the user fee for older patients who have been discharged but still need care. We are going to set aside 100 million. kr. already on the 2019 Finance Act. We must restore proximity to our welfare societies, which, with the municipal reform, have been centralised too much and too quickly. All Danes must experience being able to get to a hospital quickly and that the police are present locally. For this reason, in the forthcoming negotiations, the Social Democratic Party proposes that close hospitals should be given priority and that 20 new local police units should be set up. Next, a sustainable and green Denmark must be given much higher priority. It is our vision that Denmark should be free of fossil fuels as early as 2045. We must give priority to research into green technology. It is through research that we must find the energy sources of tomorrow. But we must also be ambitious and take the lead here and now. This applies both to clean air and to clean drinking water, but also to green means of transport collectively and privately. The Social Democratic Party insists that the Togfonden DK, as a broad majority outside the government's agreement, is included in the Finance Act for 2019. Thirdly, we want to invest in Danish jobs. More Danish hands will be available on the labour market in the coming years. This is good, because companies demand labour, and therefore it is absolutely crucial that the Danes have the right skills to take the jobs of the future. The answer to growing demand is not to import labour from Asia and Africa, but to train and train the Danes. We have to live on knowledge and education in the future, and that is why we will drop the government's annual cuts in education that go hard on quality. As a fourth priority, we want the Financial Act for 2019 to be brought to an end with the unfair inheritance tax, and to restore confidence in SKAT, in other words, so that ordinary Danes who go to work every day are not taxed when they inherit, while large inheritances are taxed a little more. The Social Democratic Party has presented a fully funded financial bill with clear key priorities for the 2019 Finance Act. Social democracy, in fact, prioritises within the same scope as the government, but, contrary to the government, we give priority to security of welfare. In addition to the available reserves, the Social Democratic Party also proposes a change in the inheritance tax and a normalisation of the subsidy to private schools, which together generate an income of 1.3 billion. kr. We want broad political negotiations on real solutions for the benefit of the Danes. There must be security about Denmark's budget, and that is why I would also call on the Minister of Finance to call for broad negotiations instead of continuing the narrow cooperation. Social democracy is ready to go constructively to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906092244	Thank you. Then there are some rapporteurs who have asked to speak. Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906092250	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your speech to the rapporteur. There was a lot of it that was quite interesting. I would like to go into some of the points which perhaps were not covered in the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur spoke a great deal about this with dignified care for the elderly, and I have to say that we in the Danish People's Party naturally welcome it, because the more people say it, the more we will probably get started. After all, we are very pleased that we have a dignity billionaire working out there. However, one thing that the rapporteur did not mention is the bodily elderly, those who have retired and are at home, and the amount of their resources. I would actually like to ask where the social democracy is in relation to that. After all, when you look over time, the rate pool has eroded the purchasing power of Danish folk pensioners quite significantly, and it will continue if you do not do something about it. I would really like to ask the rapporteur if the Social Democratic Party is prepared to look at how to stop the erosion that is taking place today completely automatically. From 2019 the purchasing power will be further eroded for a single person with 516 DKK. a year, and that will then continue with DKK 516. further also in 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906092356	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906092357	There are many challenges in the area of pensions. Despite the fact that the government together with others... The Danish People's Party has made adjustments and adjustments in the area of pensions, we have not actually solved the whole challenge of residual group problems and various other issues. There is, in fact, a great deal to advocate that we should look at the whole area of pensions from a broad perspective. The Danish People's Party's proposals have also been calculated and have a very, very small impact, so it has to be said in this context that what is more needed is to look at the pension area in a wider perspective with the challenges that the current government has not solved, among other things. because the excellent pension commission set up by the SR government was laid down. But the small amount that it would possibly give with the Danish People's Party's proposal is not what is going to make the big difference. And then our main priority is to ensure that there is proper and dignified care for the elderly, and I do not think we actually disagree with the Danish People's Party. The question then is whether we want to prioritise in the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906092513	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906092514	It was actually a rather interesting answer that the Social Democrats are simply saying that they will continue to undermine the purchasing power of pensions, because that is what they really do. One can say that if we are now in a recovery and you can expect that we are then it may last for 10 years. If we continue with the erosion of the rate pool, it will be about DKr 6,000, which has further undermined the purchasing power of the public pension. Well, that's pretty interesting. We think that is a high amount of money. 6,000 Dkr.s further erosion of the purchasing power of a folk pensionist we think is a lot. Another point raised by the rapporteur is the fact that user charges have been sneaked into health care. I would like to say on behalf of the Danish People's Party that we fully agree with the rapporteur that we have to stop this. But the question is, how do we stop it? Is the Social Democracy ready to look at how we have organized our health care, that is, with us having three links? We have the state, we have the regions and we have the municipalities. That's three terms. Should we have less joints?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906092612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906092613	That's pretty weird, 'cause I can hear where mr. René Christensen wants to go along with this, that is to say, insinuating that if you remove the link that today does not have user charges, then it should be an advantage, i.e. if you close down the regions. I do not think that is very appropriate. On the contrary, I think it is an incredibly good idea to make the effort where necessary. It is clear that if we are to remove user charges in emergency places, money will also have to be taken into account, otherwise we simply run the risk of fewer emergency places. And there is really a need that, when you are discharged very early from hospital and health care, there is also a place where you get proper care of a skilled and competent staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906092701	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906092704	Well, I must start by apologising for making a laughing-out when the rapporteur said that the Social Democrats are sticking to their plans. The payment ring, 12 minutes. What happened to it? That was when the last time people were in opposition. Now you come up with some new plans, and we'll see how they're doing. No, I will note that a brochure has been provided here during the night, and I suppose it is covered by the night, because I haven't seen it until this morning, where it was on Ritzau. And that is probably what is meant by having a flank closed, so that you cannot be accused of not doing anything. But now you come up with a booklet with some loose headlines, but a headline that says: "Make good times better... That then leads me to my question, namely about Mr. Benny Engelbrecht then doesn't also acknowledge that I take it as an acknowledgment, but I just want to know if it's a confirmation of a recognition that we have good times in Denmark. Why do we have good times? Is it not because we have, for many years, made a massive effort for our common welfare, provided resources, made structural changes and increased productivity and created good times at all? And in all modesty, the Left has been at the head of the government for 13 out of the last 17 years, so I see what the Social Democratic Party is doing this morning as a clear recognition that we in the Left have created a situation in Denmark where we have good times. Then I agree that they need to be improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906092828	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906092829	I was in a debate with Mr. Jacob Jensen on the radio this morning, and I actually thought that Mr. Jacob Jensen would have been in the studio. That's why I had actually taken our financial bill with me to Mr. Jacob Jensen, and on the front page of it it quite rightly says: "Do good times better for everyone." And that is where we have the difference between the Left and the Social Democratic Party, because we want to bring everyone in and not just those who already have the most. Now, sir. Jacob Jensen is cheerful about plans. It is absolutely true that we presented a 2025 plan in 2016. After all, in 2016, the Left presented an overall plan in which, as you know, everything had to be changed. It lasted six months. Then the subsequent VLAK government presented its 2025 plan in 2017 on higher retirement age, lower top tax, welfare cuts and massive labour supply reforms. It also lasted only six months. Then the VLAK government came up with a moderated plan here in the autumn of 2017, where one among others. We must make adjustments in the field of transfer and various other things, create a labour supply, which I understand, of 55-60 000. I can see that the good Minister for Foreign Affairs is not here, but I can at least understand that even the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not believe in the economic plans. So it's just to say, maybe you shouldn't throw stones when you live in a glass house.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906092956	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906092958	Now it was not I who said: we are making plans, and they are keeping pace, but I think we are doing that; it was the rapporteur. But it wasn't for us to spend our time throwing mud here, but I really think this is too important for that. But I would just like to note that this is what I see as the fact that, under our governments, additional funds have been added. Isn't that right? Can the rapporteur not confirm that additional funds have been provided for the common welfare and that this is also part of the reason why we have good welfare today? There are clearly things that need to be improved, and that is also why we have put forward a financial bill which gives priority to some of these areas: health, psychiatry and others. However, we must, after all, be able to agree that funds have been provided over the past many years, that structural changes have been made and that, in fact, we can say today that we have good times and that they can be better done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093046	Thank you. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093047	First of all, I would like to confirm to Mr. Jacob Jensen, that the Left has put forward plans which do not last several times. That is absolutely correct. Then there is the question of whether we are spending a little more on welfare in this year's draft budget. Yes, it is done after, by the way, denouncing the welfare of the past three years. As Jyllands-Posten could write last week, welfare has been underfunded by 4.4 billion. kr., from the current prime minister joined in 2015 until now. And if you look at the economic plans, the economic projections up to 2025, you will also see a erosion in the years up to 2025 with 10,000 fewer public employees. Is this a good course for the welfare society in Denmark? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093136	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen as rapporteur. No, it's not. We just need to figure out these papers. In fact, a great deal of questions are going to be put to the Socialist rapporteur. It's first, sir. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093155	Thank you. Now it is the case that during this parliamentary term the Social Democratic Party has finally ended up saying that they will lift the welfare with what corresponds to the demographic trait; that is, the figure that makes welfare just as easy to keep its nose, as more older and more children come in the coming years. However, if we are to ensure that welfare not only keeps its nose on the nose, as more elderly and more children come along, but that welfare develops in line with the general increase in prosperity in society, and if public welfare does not just have to stand still and become relatively smaller while private consumption is growing and the private sector is growing, we need to spend a lot more money on welfare in order to develop it as well. Then we need to spend money corresponding to the expanded demographic move, which is about twice the demographic move. When you read the Social Democrats' draft Finance Act, is it really the ambition in the area of welfare that welfare should only just keep its nose on in the coming years rather than actually grow as prosperity increases in society, as new forms of treatment and as many other things come into being in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093314	It is quite true that the priority of social democracy is that we must at least be able to hold our hand under welfare. This means that we must at least be able to meet the demographic trend over the years. It is not the same as that we will not be able to invest further when it is needed and when there is room for manoeuvre. In particular, I think we should stick to the latter, because if there is something we have learned from the past three years of the Left as a government-supporting party, it is that part of the room for manoeuvre that lies in the years to come has been used. It is a room for manoeuvre created by various reforms, which, moreover, have very often been subject to guarantees that the room for manoeuvre that might be created should go to welfare. After all, it must be a discussion between the governing parties and, ultimately, the citizens as to whether or not we can measure up to it. But the truth is that in some of the following years the room for manoeuvre is relatively under pressure. That is why, as I said, it is our ambition at least to live up to the demographic trait. Of course, that should not prevent us from investing any more, because it is not certain that there is room for manoeuvre. We just have to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093434	Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093435	But a room for manoeuvre is also something that can be achieved by making changes, for example. tax policy or by making other changes. You can roll back some of the tax rebates that have been given to billionaire heirs. The Social Democrats themselves have proposed this. There are also other proposals that could be put forward to increase the scope for manoeuvre. We have also seen that the economic wise men write in their report, which we received just before the summer break, that there is indeed room for manoeuvre to finance the expanded demographic trend of 1.2 per cent. growth in the public sector, if you just want to. That is why my question is about welfare. The rapporteur mentioned Martin in his speech, but if Martin is to have so many colleagues that Martin can offer an offer to the citizens who come to Martin, then we must have a growth in public welfare that corresponds to the growth of society in general, so why is it not at least the starting point for social democracy when it comes to giving priority to welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093537	Martin and his colleagues are certainly under pressure. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, But they have not least been forced by the fact that, in recent years, from 2015, when we last had elections in Denmark, there have been 93,000 more Danes over 70 years of age. It is a good thing that people are getting older. The opposite would be rather depressing. But the fact that there are so many more older people also means that there is a much greater demand and the money has not been followed. Had the course taken by the Social Democrats, there would have been the hands that are needed. So it is true that there are challenges in the care of the elderly because it has been underfunded. So that's what they in Jyllands-Posten last week could make up to 4,4 billion. kr. So, is it the case that with just a few gripes we can find a lot of new money? No, it is not quite that simple, because unlike the Enhedslisten, Social Democracy is also an economically responsible party. We have among other things. in our draft financial regulation, we set out how we are going to increase funding, and that is among other things. Knows, as Mr. Rune Lund rightly said to change the inheritance tax for the most wealthy heirs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093647	Thank you. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093649	Thank you for that, President. I have just one very simple question: does the Social Democratic Party believe that fiscal policy should be organised according to demographic trends? It will certainly be a new way of pursuing fiscal policy in Denmark and also a new way, in relation to how the Social Democratic Party conducted financial policy under Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt. So I would also like to ask: is it not correct to say just a simple fact that if as much money is spent as the Social Democrats are proposing next year, then the structural deficit will increase? You will help to lighten the boilers in the Danish economy further and increase the capacity problems in the Danish economy. And is that particularly sensible? So, has the Social Democracy learned nothing from the '00s, where they also asked for more and more money to be spent? Today it is widely agreed that public spending was too high through the '00s and the Social Democratic Party wanted even higher public spending to overheat the Danish economy, and there was a huge price to pay for that at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093805	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093806	If sir... Joachim B. Olsen agrees with the draft Finance Act put forward by the Social Democratic Party, so there will be no more bent pennies in relation to indebtedness. We use exactly the reserves that the government has set aside and, in addition, increased revenue for 1.3 billion. kr. There will be no increased indebtedness of Denmark on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093835	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093836	If public spending next year increases more than the government is proposing, then it will increase activity in the Danish economy and it will help push on the trends we are currently seeing with a shortage of labour. It cannot be an expression of a responsible fiscal policy to do so, and then we have not learned as much from the 00s as we should have learned. It is said that wise men and others are recommending strict fiscal policies in the current economic situation, and that is not what the Social Democrats are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093918	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093919	That, sir. Joachim B. Olsen asked me if you wanted to increase debt, and that is not going to be done on the basis of it. I'll answer that, sir. Joachim B. Olsen asks me, and when Mr. Joachim B. Olsen assumes that it will increase debt, so allow me to reply that it is not true. I'm gonna have to answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093940	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906093949	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I want to ask you about the green and the climate. As I read the action you have taken this morning, Social Democracy has not become more proactive in relation to the green and renewable energy by 2030. There is still a target of 55% renewable energy by 2030. Can the Social Democrats not be somewhat more ambitious in relation to the green and climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094024	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094025	I remember that when we presented our green proposal in the spring, we actually received relatively many roses from the alternative too, and we very much appreciate that. I have no doubt for a moment that the more we work together on the green area, the more likely there is also for us to implement a policy. In fact, I thought it was a really positive experience when, just before the summer, all parties in the Danish Parliament agreed on a very warm summer to make a broad energy settlement, in which we pressured the current government to establish three offshore wind farms instead of one offshore wind farm. It was also with the participation of the alternative, and I would like to thank you for that. So we would very much like to be ambitious and we have also presented an ambitious green policy. But it is also clear that there is something here in which I see, first and foremost, that we need to work together. What is important is results and not slogans.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094130	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094130-2	Thank you. What we would very much like the Social Democrats to do was to stop the extraction of oil in the North Sea altogether, and the waters are at least dividing between the Social Democrats and the Alternative. Can the rapporteur elaborate on how long one imagines to continue to extract oil in the North Sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094159	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094200	Denmark must be free of fossil fuels in 2045. That is our ambition. Energy policy in the broad sense is also a security policy, which means that it is very important that we think about security, including when it comes to green conversion and renewable energy sources. This is underlined by the fact that where Denmark has been self-sufficient in oil and gas for many years, we are in fact now in a rather peculiar situation, that we have to import fossil fuels from abroad. This, of course, also points out that we need to make a green transition. I believe that all parties are prepared to do so. But it also shows that we must be very careful and aware that we do not become dependent on regimes in the world on which we do not want to be dependent. And the order is simple: we must start by abolishing the worst, the coal, then we must take the oil and finally the gas, and in the end we must achieve the ambition that we have in 2025 and that the government has in 2050, that is to say that we must be completely independent of fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094310	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094313	Thanks for the speech. There was talk of the school, but I do not think there was any mention of education, of vocational schools, colleges, universities, professional colleges, and therefore I really have one question to begin with. Benny Engelbrecht, namely whether the Socialists will still abolish the green harvester in the field of education. And when I ask, it is because it says, when you read your website, that you want to stop the two percent savings that the government and the Danish People's Party have made every year on our programmes. But then there have been some reports which state that we will continue to demand two percent efficiency and then carry the money around in the field of education, so that, if I may say so, we feed the dog with its own tail. That is why I am just thinking that it might be nice to be told quite clearly: will the Socialists be asking me every year, and so I look forward to having the positive answer this year to abolish the two percent savings in education when we hope to get to power with all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094416	First of all, I am pleased that Mr. Martin Lidegaard in this way clearly signals that after the next elections a social democratic government will also receive the support of Radicals. I very much appreciate that, and I will look forward very much to our being able to work together to abolish the re-priority contribution. I'm guessing sir. Martin Lidegaard, just as I spent a little time last night preparing for today's debate, perhaps overlooking the fact that we quite clearly said it yesterday, that part of our budget proposal is now that no green harvesting method should be applied to all educations, and of course we are fully aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094502	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094502-2	It was nice to hear that there are no snitches in the waltz there. I can say that, but I think that is an old news for most people, that we are giving Mette Frederiksen the chance to study royally, the queen examines if the opposition wins the election, and then we have to see if we can agree with the Socialists on the policy to be followed. It must then be in a different direction. But education is an important element here. Another important element is the environment and climate. After all, we have made an energy reconciliation that goes a long way, and now it is agriculture and transport that it is all about. And there I would like to ask whether the Socialists who are going to help lift the green bar as high as we have done in the field of energy, because this requires a kind of green revolution, you might say, both in our agricultural sector and in the transport sector. And if that is something that has to happen within a few decades, then we have to get started now, which means that we also need to get out of the gaps in the two areas where it is possible to say that the Socialists have been a little more slow than in the energy sector, at least in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094609	I have greatly appreciated the course of negotiations we had just before the summer, about energy, where Mr. Martin Lidegaard and I and many other talented people sat around the negotiating table. As I understand it, it is the Government's ambition to convene climate negotiations in this autumn, and I think it is an obvious task for the same parties that went all the way in the energy sector to do so in the climate field too. If I am going to highlight some of the issues on which we are particularly focused, then it is, of course, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard also mentions the transport, where we have an ambition that Denmark should be able to achieve a goal of having 500,000 green cars by 2030. It is absolutely essential that we reach that milestone if we are also to achieve a reduction in emissions from the transport sector, in particular. There, too, I look forward to working with Mr. Martin Lidegaard for the rest of the year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094711	Thank you. Sir. Anders Johansson, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094715	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech and a good plan, or whatever to call it, at least a brochure for what you want up to 2025. The rapporteur says that the whole point by point has been financed and that the whole scope will be used to increase welfare. So you want to increase the inheritance tax, and then free schools and private schools have to pay. In addition, there is also a proposal that 500,000 electric cars will be placed on the market by 2030. It is estimated to cost about 25 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal, and I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. Can the rapporteur explain where the last money will come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094810	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094811	First of all, I'd like to be allowed to go because it's the first time, sir. Anders Johansson acts as finance rapporteur in a debate on finance law to welcome the rapporteur. It's a pleasure to have new team members, new colleagues. I am quite convinced that the Conservative People's Party too is very committed to ensuring a green transition to transport. At any rate, I could say that when the party's political rapporteur, Mrs Mette Abildgaard, appeared on the TV newspaper this summer, in an article that I myself also participated in. And it is the case that if you want to promote green cars and it is not just about electric cars; when we talk about green cars, we talk from the broadest possible perspective, i.e. electric cars, partly plugin hybrid cars and partly hydrogen cars, and what else comes from technologies that we do not know about now, it is just as much about the structures that are needed to ensure this conversion. But it is clear that it would, of course, have been the easiest if the conversion of the registration fee recently made by the government, together with the Danish People's Party, had been a technically based conversion. And that is why, of course, this is something that we need to start, including in the climate negotiations, which we hope will be called for soon. It is also clear that the total funding for this is not something to be found in the 2019 financial year, but we need to get started in order to achieve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094942	Sir. Anders Johansson.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906094942-2	Thank you for an answer, or a non-answer, and thank you for welcoming the rapporteur. We share the ambition that there will be more electric cars on the streets, but this must also be done at a pace where it can be said that it will not be too incalculable a cost for the Treasury. And I still need an answer to where the 25 billion. kr. We must come from if we are to achieve the ambition to reach 500,000 electric cars. That is a good ambition, but where should the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095010	Thank you. And here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095011	If you think it's all about just giving tax subsidies to it, then you're wrong. And it is certainly not tax subsidies that are to be found in 2019 in the Finance Act that it is also important to establish. But we have to go out there, and I can hear that this is also the ambition of the Conservatives, so should we not make it a common ambition to achieve this? There was a reason why the Social Democratic Party insisted, together with other parties, that money should be set aside for the energy conciliation process to enable us to translate precisely into green transport. That is why, of course, we always try to ensure that we can go the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095049	Thank you. Those were the party rapporteurs. Then the next questioners will have to ask. The first is sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Please go up to the rapporteur's table. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095102	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the last question, because I think that was actually quite interesting. The Social Democrats say that they have a fully funded 2025 plan, you have money for all things, but when the Conservative People's Party's rapporteur asks about the ambition you have of 500,000 electric cars, that is, where the money is to come from, there is no answer. That is, of course, the problem with the so-called Social Democratic papers. There's no plan. There is no overview, so we can relate to what the Social Democrats want. That's why I'm just gonna try to ask in a slightly different way. How much of the room for manoeuvre there is, the Social Democrats will spend on electric cars for tax reliefs, among other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095145	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095146	We should not achieve the 500,000 electric cars alone by looking at the tax. We also need to look at how we can, for example. This is something that can be promoted, and it is also in our Green Paper. It would be nice if there were no remarks over from the ministerial side which could disturb, President. We're gonna have to, among other things. If we promote precisely the fact that the number of people driving around in a company car has priority over an old diesel picker, we will be able to change the taxation that exists, in the form of company car taxation, for some of what will really get many green cars rolling very quickly. It will really be some of the things that promote it. So it is not just about taxes. It is about the overall structures, and it is also about the infrastructure. Then it's just that when Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen raises this question, and I also have the idea that it is really about the fact that the Left does not have the same ambitions, namely that we must have a major climate change change. I am pleased that the Conservative People's Party has indicated before that they actually have some ambitions in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095259	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095300	At least I can reject the last accusations. There is, of course, more money in the government's financial bill for climate action, but I know that it is a little difficult for the Social Democrats to enjoy a large number of the initiatives we have taken. It seems to hurt the Social Democrats to see that we have a government that delivers in so many ways and in so many areas. But I would like to return to the same question that I asked at first, because I am not getting an answer. How much money will the Social Democrats spend on the various initiatives? Social democracy keeps saying that in a 2025 plan there is a sum of money available, but there are further initiatives coming, and these 500,000 electric cars are not funded. That is why it would just be liberating if the Social Democrats could say what they really want to do with the money. Because what we see time and time again is that social democracy spends the same money several times. It is not just something that I stand and feel a little upset about, but it is just because I have such bitter experience that this is how social democracy behaves when they are in opposition. Then you can do all kinds of things. And on the day you might return to government offices, the reality is different. I think the Danes deserve some full answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095413	If it wasn't belly sour, but cheerful, I wouldn't want to see Mr. Knox. Torsten Schack Pedersen's stomach peeping, I have to say. And then I'm just gonna have to correct it, because Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen repeats what has also been said earlier, namely that we are talking about electric cars alone. I really have to deny that. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking very broadly about green cars, and that is why it is also a little important to look at that, for example when we are talking about plugin hybrid cars, in fact, and I would like to acknowledge that is an area where sales are going quite strongly at the moment. It may be a bit quiet as far as electric cars are concerned, but the plugin hybrids are actually moving pretty fast. So the ambitions are there, and it is clear that we also want to come in and influence the negotiations that are in the climate area, regardless of how ambitious the Left is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095508	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, and the next one is Mr Schack Elholm. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095516	Thank you for the floor. I think I will stay on the subject a little bit, because I think the rapporteur is incredibly good at avoiding it. But I think that what is, as it were, central is how much money the Social Democrats have set aside for the initiative to ensure that there are 500,000 electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095541	We have among other things. It is important that we change company car taxation, as was clearly stated, and that is one way of achieving it. It is also to create infrastructure etc. However, it is also clear that priority needs to be given to this, and I think that, first of all, we should sit down in the debates starting this autumn and find the necessary priorities for the 100 million. kr., which the Social Democratic Party succeeded in getting into the energy settlement, is certainly not enough to achieve it. I would like to acknowledge that. So, of course, we need to find more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095613	Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095614	Thank you. Unfortunately, that was not a very specific answer, because I asked for an overall figure for that effort. Because I expect that, when you say you want 500,000 electric cars, there is a plan that is the basis for this, that is to say, a number of different instruments you want to propose and that you have an overview of how much money you want to spend on it and where the money is to come from. So how much money will be spent on these initiatives, among other things. company car taxation, but also the other initiatives aimed at securing 500,000 green cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095642	As Mrs Louise Schack Elholm knows, we hope and expect to be invited to climate negotiations by the government very soon, and there it is also the case that we will of course come up for those negotiations with clear priorities. But we also know that the government is on the way with a negotiating proposal, so we will not stand in a position where we cut ourselves off, for example. to enter into the negotiations or, for that matter, to cut us off from the possibility of being able to prioritize on the basis of the presentation made by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095713	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, and the next one is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095719	Thank you. After all, welfare is also about a dignified withdrawal from working life. Here, the major pension funds recently questioned the increase in retirement age. They point out that this leads to a growing group that goes out of the labour market long before retirement because they are worn out or lack the necessary qualifications. The pension funds asked: What are all these people going to live on? The same has been asked by the wise men, and at the same time they showed that there is actually a means of doing so in a different way. What does the Social Democrats really think about this? Does this give rise to the termination of conciliation on the increase in the retirement age before the elections, so that we can clean up the slate and find good, solidarity solutions that will ensure a decent end to working life for all employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095814	As you know, I began my speech today by looking back a year and, in connection with this, I also welcome the fact that a majority of this Parliament has actually succeeded, among other things. both our parties, the Danish People's Party and others, to set foot down and limit and stop the thoughts that the government has had about increasing the retirement age further. I think that is so important that we have succeeded in doing so. But it also shows that having a settlement helps to ensure that such an increase in the retirement age can also be prevented. That is why I think it would be very inappropriate to terminate a conciliation procedure which would ensure that we have a decisive influence over it. Having said that, we must of course be sure that people also have a dignified old age, and there are also challenges in the area of retirement, which are not fully addressed but which certainly do not stand to be looked at. ♪ 'Cause there's a... ♪
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095924	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906095926	The compromise also means that at the same time civil veto rights have been given to prevent improvements or a milder way of doing so, for example. the way the wise men propose. The consequence of the conciliation is, of course, that by 2020 the Social Democratic Party will vote for an increase in the retirement age to 69 years. The consequence is that an 18-year-old electrician apprentice can only retire when she is 75 years old. I was with 170 electricians yesterday, and there was absolutely no understanding among those people. So the question to be answered by the Social Democratic Party is: what should the many people live on when they are forced out of the labour market long before they can retire? Is it welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100010	I started working myself when I was 16 years old, so I can well understand that situation. That is why I would like to say that there are also questions which have not yet been answered. We will, and that will also be part of what we will take care of if we are to have government power. But exactly how it is to be designed requires deeper work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100032	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and then Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100042	Unfortunately, I haven't been able to dive into the Social Democrats' game. I've only just had time to skim it. But I can't wait to read it. I thought that I would use this opportunity today in this Chamber to talk about something that I am sure is very dear to both of our parties, namely child poverty. In SF we have also made a playout with among others. focus on child poverty. We know that just one year of poverty can affect children for the rest of their lives, and we have seen a doubling of the number of poor children in this country under this government. At the same time, an official way of measuring poverty has also been removed, namely by removing the poverty line. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur about some of the initiatives that are in relation to sticking to how we measure it, but that is not enough, of course, because how do we do something about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100149	I shall be quick to say that I have not read the SF's proposal. I'm sorry. Of course, I should have done that in order to be able to deal specifically with it. It is clear that a problem does not disappear because you stop measuring it. Well, that's self-evident. Therefore, it is also very interesting that Denmark's Statistics, despite the fact that the government has stopped measuring poverty, because of the UN's sustainability objectives, nevertheless measures it. Perhaps I find that very telling in reality. How to measure it, I do not think I am the most competent to comment on, but of course it makes sense to measure poverty in Denmark. Of course it does. When we have made an international commitment to do so, of course we also have to have some indicators on it in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100245	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100247	Thank you. We are in complete agreement on that. But what about efforts to reduce the number of poor children or generally reduce poverty in Denmark? Is there anything in the Social Democrats' proposal in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100309	Our position on the ceiling on cash benefits is unchanged. We're against it. And we have a special focus on the families of children that we are very concerned about. We have also indicated that if government changes, we will set up a Services Commission to look at the whole area. This is, of course, not least because we have a great deal of concern for families with children.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100336	First, it is Mrs Jane Heitmann, and then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen. We are running a little out of time, so we have to keep to the speaking time, because it will hurt colleagues if you exceed your speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100404	Thank you for that, President. Make good times better. After all, it is a gigantic shoulder flap for us who have been in power for 13 out of 17 years, and I would like to start by signing for that. In the Social Democratic Party, you stick to the plans you have made, and it is a little free of charge, I think, to make that statement, especially in the light of the recent questions here, where it is very difficult to get answers. I understand that the rapporteur blames the Left for wanting to save on health care, in particular the nurses were mentioned. I will not fail to say that since 2001 there has been an employee of both a doctor and a nurse every day, except on Sunday. I don't think you can call that a saving. I would like to return to the pamphlet which we have heard about and which the Socialists have brought along. I have to understand that you want more green cars, you actually want 500,000 of them. It costs about 25 billion. kr. Where's the money coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100515	We have indeed made a financial act, and it is true, as Mrs Jane Heitmann says, that it is called "Make good times better', but Mrs Jane Heitmann forgets the addition for everyone. And that's exactly what we have to bring for everyone. In 2019 we don't need 25 billion. kr. on green cars. Towards 2030, we must prioritise green cars in many different ways, partly, as I have indicated, by changing the way company car schemes are made, partly by deploying an infrastructure and much more. Then I have to challenge it when Mrs Jane Heitmann talks about the many wild welfare billions that the Left should have given, because it is amazing that when the Prime Minister of the country is in national newspapers and has to make a large number of announcements, it has to go back to 2001. I do not know the calculations behind the Left's figures, but I can at least see that the think tank AE Council was counting on it and found that of the 75 billion. kr., you pride yourself on, it's 72 billion. kr. Before 2010. I would really like to see a figure of 75 billion. kr. That could be interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100636	I understand if the Socialist rapporteur sounds a little bitter about the fact that one has not been able to lift the Danish welfare where it is today and that one has only contributed with the little one has. I recognise that the contribution has been made, but it is after all only a few years that the Socialists have been in power, so they have not been able to do so anymore. I understand that bitterness. However, I would like to return to my question about the green effort. Where's the money coming from? It is so easy to speak in big, plumbing headlines, it is so easy to stand and say that you stick to your plan when you only talk in headlines. Now let us get the facts on the table: where will the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100720	When I can sound a little bitter, and I must agree with Mrs Jane Heitmann that I am, it is because since the current Prime Minister took office as Prime Minister in 2015, prosperity has been eroded by 4,4 billion. kr. There have simply been fewer public employees. And in the future after the next elections, if the Left continues in the Prime Minister's post, negative developments continue. I can feel a little bitter about that. What are we going to do about priorities in the green area? We will give priority to the same scope that the government makes up to 2025 and then.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100755	Thank you for that, and then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen. And if you can keep to the speaking time, I will go a little over time as such and leave the last one with a brief comment, because there are only two left, and I think everyone should justifiably go on. Here you go, Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100810	Thank you for that, President. I think that the title 'Cause I have also read the Finance Act of the Social Democratic Party' is very fine, especially the first part. But let us get to grips with the second part, which the rapporteur himself has also tackled by saying that somehow we are simply going to guarantee good times for everyone. That's what they say. Is this a guarantee that the rapporteur actually stands and gives here from the platform, that is to say for everyone? And how many are the last?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100846	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906100848	Mrs Anni Matthiesen and I live in the same part of the country, southern Jutland, where it has to be said that if something seriously presents us with challenges, then it is that we have fewer people taking qualifying courses. If there is something that will benefit those areas, it is that we will get more people to apply for training, especially for skilled training, because it will benefit themselves, and it will benefit the business community, which is asking for their skills. That is why it is almost hypocritical to hear Mrs Anni Matthiesen ask who is going with it. For the government's savings in education over the past three years have led to the worst savings being made where the largest cities are and where the longest between students are. So you can ask: is it the case that you want to stop saving on it? No, you're going to continue for three more years driving a green harvester through the educational system. It does not get everyone involved; on the contrary, it excludes some of the citizens whom Mrs Anni Matthiesen and I have been elected to represent. I don't think that's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906101010	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906101012	Some of those we have just been elected to represent are also all the students who attend free schools, also a great many of the schools that are located in our part of the country. And that is where the Social Democrats will find the money, namely by cutting down on free schools. In this way, there may be free schools in our part of the country which, frankly, have to close or where the only way to secure the economy in those places is to turn up the parental pay so that not everyone gets free choice of school, at least not in our part of the country. I would really like to hear a comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906101047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906101049	The municipal reform of the current Prime Minister rightly led, as Mrs Anni Matthiesen points out, to a lot of elementary school closures. There was a long way to go, it is a huge challenge in itself and perhaps the biggest change in Danish history with the most negative effect. And that stands out, as we also write in our financial act, a huge task that we cannot solve in 2019 alone. When we look at the open school area, we will do so in an adaptation, so that we also take into account the fact that urban and rural schools must have different arrangements.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906101127	Thank you. And then it's the very last speaker, sir. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906101136	Make good times better for everyone. I think it is a very, very sympathetic title, but the reality out there is that it has not benefited everyone after this crisis we have been through. If we look at the people affected by the disease affected by unemployment, then they are financially clogged and they have got worse conditions, among other things. As a result of many of the reforms carried out under the then Socialist Government. One of those reforms was the 2012 tax reform, which chose to say that one would go down in the pockets of the unemployed benefit recipients and of early retirement and others and take part in the income growth they should have experienced. For an ordinary benefit recipient, this means that they have DKr 13,000. less a year, when this reform is finally completed in 2022 because money is taken from them every year. In my view, if we are serious about this, the Social Democrats have a duty to ensure that this erosion of the income of the unemployed does not continue in the years to come, so my question is: will a social democratic government, if it is given the opportunity to do so, stop this less regulation and ensure that the income of the unemployed is no longer eroded year by year, as is the case with the tax reform in 2012?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906101256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906101258	We are not going to continue at that rate. But it is also important to say that, and I think Mr. Pelle Dragsted and I fully agree that when we have as good times as we do now, the most important, the very best social policy we can pursue is to ensure that those who are furthest from the labour market enter the labour market. And that is why I am pleased that Enhedslisten has also helped to say no to undermine the arrangements for importing foreign labour into Denmark. It's very, very important. Then it is crucial that we ensure that the unemployed are actually given proper opportunities to be retrained. Let me just remind you that the current government has just saved 1.08 billion. kr. In the case of the unemployed, it is precisely in the case of the unemployed. So, unfortunately, there are some challenges too, and especially, in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906101358	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906101400	But all that is very good. We know that there are economic conditions in the economy; there will be crises again; there will be unemployment again in Denmark. So my question is actually very simple: is it reasonable? And will the Social Democratic Party allow this minor regulation to continue forward-looking in 2019, 2020, 2021 and, as far as I remember, even in 2022, even if you take over power in Denmark, so that an allowance recipient stands with DKK 13,000. less than what else would have been done when we reach the end of that reform period? Is it merely going to continue with the minor regulation, despite the fact that it eats itself into the purchasing power of benefit recipients, early retirement pensioners, barren and sick people, while we see that all other groups in society are gaining an increase in purchasing power? Will the Social Democratic Party stand for it if one sits in the Prime Minister's office?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906101445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906101447	It should be borne in mind that we ensured that the employment allowance was significantly increased much, much more than the current government has done in terms of allowing people to enter the labour market. We have reached broad agreements and, of course, we stand by them. That's the way it is. But that doesn't change the fact that our priority is to get Danes into work. I know, sir. Pelle Dragsted also wants the second, but I think we also agree that the most important thing we can do is to ensure that those who are far removed from the labour market today enter the labour market and have the best possible opportunities. Then the second is the question of how benefits etc. is going to look like, of course, something we are looking at continuously, and as there are also different in the trade union movement looking at. But if you ask me what the most important thing at all is to do now, then it is to ensure that you have the opportunity for education and training and to enter the labour market; that we prevent wage dumping in the labour market, so that Danes have a real opportunity to get the vacancies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906101554	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Benny Engelbrecht. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906101615	Thank you. Greater security and more proximity are the heading of the Finance Act for 2019. It is not so bad a headline to even have to start working on, and I would also say that when you look at it with the eyes of the Danish People's Party, it is also a Finance Act where we have to talk more about content than where we have to fight about what we disagree about. We are very pleased that such things as top tax concessions, corporate tax reductions and other things have been tampered with, so we from the Danish People's Party do not need so much political capital to fight something out, but more use the negotiations to talk about how to make this financial law a good, balanced financial law. So the starting point is far better than we have been used to in the past. One of the areas which will probably not surprise anyone who matters to the Danish People's Party is, of course, the older area. When you look at the Finance Act, you can see that there is also a little set aside for the elderly area, that is not the large amount of money. 180 million has been set. kr. of in 2019 to a very important topic, namely recruitment, and this is actually one of the challenges of elderly care. We can, of course, put off all the money we want, but if there is no decent labour to get, it is not the money alone that helps. There we would like to have a dialogue about which we also had last year to set aside some money to ensure that the working conditions that sosu assistants in the municipalities have are improved. Because what kind of challenge is that out there? It is precisely that as a sosu assistant it is not the high hourly wage that you have, and unfortunately you also have a few hours. There are very few sosu assistants employed in 37 hours. Unfortunately, a lot of people are employed in less, 30 hours and as low as 25 hours, and then it will be difficult to be self-supporting with a small hourly wage and relatively few hours, so we would really like to discuss this further with the government. Another thing that fills a lot for the Danish People's Party is the purchasing power of the national pension, and there we have to say that when we look backwards, the national pension has been eroded. The purchasing power of the individual folk pensioner is not the same as can be seen in the development of the rest of society. That is why we need to look at the reason why the purchasing power of the individual national pensionist has diminished. It is the rate pool and it is certainly not an attack on the rate pool. The bet pool has given a lot of good initiatives, but we have to say that the funding is wrong, and we have always said this in the Danish People's Party, but we are part of the wager pool settlement. We want us to have a debate on how we can free pensioners from contributing to the rate pool. The rate pool is currently up to an amount of 14 billion. kr. Every year, so it is not because there is no money for social work if you take out about half of the funding, and that is what you will do if you take the pensioners out of the equation, that is that pensioners do not continue to have their retirement pension eroded. Then a bit of a joke has been made, and I would like to say that it was also done here from the platform, this 43 kr. It's no money to come with. You just have to remember that it is the 43 kroner that over the long term has become 12,000 for a couple and 8,000 for a single person. We are now in a boom, and if we continue to do so for a number of years we in the Danish People's Party hope that we will do so there will also be a wage pressure. We're kind of used to it. Then you just have to say that in 2019 it will be over 500 kroner. It's exactly for a single folk pensionist who gets less. If it continues in 2020, it is an additional DKK 516, and then it is DKK 1,032. of two years, which is reduced to the age of the pensioner. I think that many old-age pensioners think that 1,000 kroner. is a lot of money. So if we add it up for 10 years, we're talking about $6,000, which this is going to hollow out if we don't stop it. We have to stop the accident, and we are doing this by pulling the pensioners out of the equation in relation to the funding of the rate pool. One thing that is also important is the set-off rules, and it is true, as the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, said: There is simply one outstanding. It can also be seen in the Elders Tags magazine that the Prime Minister says that there is an outstanding amount in relation to the set-off rules when we look at the people's pensionists. We would like to contribute to this also in the context of the financial law negotiations. It's a good case for everyone. There's really no losers. The price is, of course, there, and it's not that high. We are once again in a boom, so why not take advantage of the fact that there are, in fact, older people who are strong who want to stay on the labour market, but older people are just like all of us. I do not think that they go to work without, of course, getting a prize, and today there are some who actually get a very big minus by taking the last few hours. So, of course, the set-off rules must have been looked at in relation to pensioners, so that it can provide a job offer, a job satisfaction and perhaps also an opportunity for more pensioners to step out of the labour market calmly, in other words to go down in time, and thus to get quieter into their retirement age. Another thing that we in the Danish People's Party will give very high priority to in the negotiations we are going to have with the government is the re-priority contribution to education. I would like to start by saying that it is a re-priority contribution that the Danish People's Party, together with the government, has introduced. We are in favour of this, and indeed we believe that the re-priority contribution can have a value, that is to say, the look at your business, and you have to do that in education and elsewhere, and ask how we can keep a good quality, but at the same time make it a little cheaper. You have to remember that the money that has been taken out has not disappeared. After all, they have gone to other welfare around, other welfare that we can enjoy and which we have been able to finance. But we are looking at vocational schools in particular to see that we have a challenge. And why the vocational schools? It is because when we look at vocational schools, we see that they have the challenge that we did a vocational school reform which we think is very good, but which is actually more about primary school than it is about vocational schools, namely that we now need a higher professional level in order to enter a vocational school. There has been a marked drop in the number of pupils. Unfortunately, as we could see in the fgu negotiations, we in Denmark have unfortunately produced 35,000 young people under 25 years of age who have searched for fgu. This means that we have 35,000 young people who do not have the skills to embark on a youth education programme, and it is, of course, pressing the vocational schools that that group can no longer be recruited. Another thing that also pushes the vocational schools is that we are in an early age. And how can that be? If you look at the average age of a vocational school, it is much higher than it is in high schools. People do not always go directly from the 9th or 10th grade to a vocational school. There are many +20-year-olds, and when we have a boom, there are a number of those who choose self-reliance, i.e. jobs, unskilled jobs, and that is also good enough for the individual, but that is why the customer base is smaller for the vocational schools, and therefore we want the 2-percent requirement for vocational schools to be stopped in 2019. We would also like to discuss the remaining re-priority contribution, i.e. how to do it, because when you introduce something at the same time, you do not have to remove it at the same time. We also have a challenge in relation to the small high schools. We fear merger in the future because we need to rationalise, and then we get further into education. Another thing that the government is also proposing is to talk about health. It is also proposed that we should discuss a health reform later. We in the Danish People's Party believe that this is really needed. We can see that we have some challenges. Like everyone else, I believe that, if people get sick and need treatment, it is really about getting well. So I don't think the citizens are so focused on who's sending the bill to whom. Today, citizens may experience more than ever that what it is going to be about is who has to pay the bill. We in the Danish People's Party think that it is very good that you do not sit in a hospital and take up a bed if someone else needs it more. You can get out and lie in another bed where rationally it makes sense to be. The citizen gets closer to home, etc. etc. But what we cannot understand is that if you are in one bed in the hospital, that is to say in a regional bed, you are part of the health care system. When you watched the next day with the same challenge you had yesterday, in a bed close to your home in the municipal, it suddenly costs money in several places. We need to look at that, and the challenge that lies in it is, of course, that we are running in pillars. We'd like to put the pillar down. I would like to say that when we talk about closing down the regions or restructuring the regions, it is not really about the staff who are out there. It's more about the structure we have. It's not about the staff we have in the hospitals not doing it right. It's not about those doctors out there not doing it right. It is about the fact that the structure we have, where we have several political layers, does not work. We have two pillars. We have a pillar called region, we have a pillar called municipality, and the two fight against each other. We need to put the pillar down, and that is not something that is being done in one day, but we would actually like to take that discussion now. We can see more and more that it presents challenges, that we run our health services in the pillars that we do. So there is plenty to address in the budget law and we are, of course, looking forward to the negotiations that are coming, but I have to say that the things that are probably the biggest clusters are, of course, the older area, which fills a lot, and we are glad that the government has also taken this into account in relation to the challenges of recruitment, but another thing is that when we live longer, we also live longer and are fresh. That is why we need to have the opportunity to remain on the labour market without, of course, having a tax system that makes it payless, while at the same time stopping the erosion of the purchasing power of pensioners, because we have to say that getting older today costs a lot of money, and then we can say: how can it cost a lot of money to get older? I guess it does if you become a care-intensive person and can no longer be in your own home. If someone has tried to have an elderly family member searched for an elderly home, go to a care center, you are surprised at what the first thing that happens is, and that is that you have to sign what you want. Do you want to clean up? Do you want some food? What kind of service do you want when you can't do it yourself? And that is where you pay by box one, and that is one of the challenges that is also in relation to the purchasing power which the elderly have unfortunately had their way out over a long period of time. We want to stop that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906102606	Thank you. Then we have some rapporteurs who have questions, and the first is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906102614	First of all, thank you to Mr. René Christensen on behalf of the rapporteur. I'll give it to you, sir. René Christensen is quite right that it can be expensive for the elderly in many different areas, and one of the areas is the area of elderly patients who have been discharged from the hospital where they have been lying for a period of time and have been treated. They have received free treatment, they get some sensible food to eat, they are not yet ready to come home, because they are not really healthy, and therefore they get a municipal offer, an emergency place, and there is quite often a user fee involved. This is at least contrary to my conviction as a Social Democrat, which is that you have free and equal access to health care and you do not have user charges. We have also mentioned this in the questions which Mr. René Christensen asked me. It seems to me that there is such a difference between our political positions on this point. - Sir... René Christensen didn't just elaborate on that? Will the Danish People's Party help to stop elderly people having to pay for an emergency place? And will Mr. René Christensen ensure that money also comes with, so that it does not just result in the offer that then is
ParlaMint-DK_20180906102743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906102745	I am glad that the Social Democrats, in a way, agree that we cannot have this. The challenge is then just the one we have experienced before, namely that if you go in and send money, it is those who have taken money for what are some bandits. They are now being sent out money to cover the costs they have incurred and the municipalities that have behaved properly and have said that this is a municipal offer for which we should not take money. We do not want that. In other words, we should not reward those who have gone in and said that we now need to introduce user charges by the back door. So we are simply not in favour of this proposal. But we fully agree that we must stop it. Of course, we need to find a solution to how we do it. But we're just saying that this tells us that the pillars aren't working well enough together. And this is not about talking down to the staff of the regions, because if you look at the regions, you just have to say that from the time the reform came and so far, we have got a lot more health for the money: they run very fast out there, they actually run very well, they produce something. But the question is, if not the political layer, what should I say? What has actually played out its role in developing the regions, and that is the discussion we want to raise, also because we see that there are more and more of these challenges coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906102846	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906102848	First of all, I am pleased to hear that, like the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party is also ready to find solutions to it. I will just have to return to my first question, namely whether the Danish People's Party is also prepared to find money for it. I am in favour of the Danish People's Party making sure that this money is given in a proper way, and we will have to find out at a negotiating table if necessary. The Social Democrats are certainly willing to do so if the Danish People's Party is also willing to do so. The experience is that if our parties can agree on something, it is usually possible to move the government in that direction. So just to hear: Can the Danish People's Party also be prepared that this, if we find the right way to do it, is also something that must cost money?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906102936	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906102938	Well, we're not afraid of that, but you just have to be careful that it doesn't turn into such a smart way, because the patient has always had to lie in a bed, but when the patient was in a bed in the hospital, nobody talked about this costing extra for the last day. That's when it cost what it cost. Then you come up with the idea that now the patient can be better out in the municipality, and I actually think that's right. In fact, I think it is true that the patient who gets closer to the municipality is probably better off in the municipality, so why take a very expensive bed in the hospital if you can get other patients through? But all of a sudden it costs money. And it is a discussion we would like to take, and it is not here either, because it is the size of the economy that is the biggest problem. The biggest problem here is that, by the back way, you have started to take money for someone who is ill to lie in a bed. And we cannot have that in a welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103021	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103029	I would like to sign for the speech and, as such, also the way in which the Danish People's Party has received the government's financial bill. I think that is very positive, and I think it provides for some good discussions in relation to the themes which Mr. René Christensen rightly points to priorities. That said, I want to ask you something. Now there is a lot of talk about who can spend the most money and who has spent the most money and who wants it in the future. And you talk a lot about the mechanical, this demographic trait, which is also what Mr. René Christensen has mentioned that there are more elderly people. That's a fact. They are also getting fresher and healthier, and that is also good. But how does Mr. René Christensen on the method of fiscal policy? Is it the case that, because there is a demographic feature, one must, if I may say so, fill one up for one so that one fills up as much as the demographic trait? Or could you imagine what has actually happened, namely that additional funds have been provided, but that things have also been done more appropriately? It has simply begun to work wiserly in different contexts. Productivity has increased. Then it is not what matters, that is, what we actually get out of it • how the elderly experience it here at the elderly centre; how the sick person experiences shorter waiting lists, and that a higher survival rate has been obtained in cancer treatment, etc. etc.? That is, I suppose, what is crucial, and not whether one can say in an excel spreadsheet that the demographic move says 1% and that the increase in the public budget may be the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103154	Of course, what is important is that it is probably a combination of both. There's a need for more money out there. We can look at the dignity billion, which is a thousand million. kr. a year that comes into the municipalities. I do not think that anyone is experiencing gold taps in the care centres and that everything just works out there because you've got 1 billion. kr. a year. There has been a need for more money to come out. But from there, to say that we in the Folketing should only relate to how much money there is, I fully agree, it is also about what the money is being spent on. And then you have to remember that the demographic move is not just about the elderly. It is, in fact, about the trend in relation to the pressure of expenditure. In the demographic context, for example, there is also the cost of non-Western immigration. The Danish People's Party wants to reduce the demographic feature by reducing the cost of non-Western immigration. Well, we don't think that money is quite amazing. One could imagine that there were 15,000 out on the freeway tomorrow. Then public consumption would increase significantly. Then there are some parties that would be very happy, because now we are getting a high level of public growth. But I just want to say that it would not do better for pensioners, but a lot of money would be spent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103252	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103253	Sir. René Christensen finally made the point I wanted to make, but now we can use the opportunity to repeat it. The rigid focus on how much money is being spent, i.e. whether the increase in the public budget is 0.4 per cent. or 0,6%. or 0.8%. or something else, isn't that an excel spreadsheet approach to things? For as Mr. René Christensen quite rightly describes here in the end, it would then be a narrow matter, if I may say so, to spend some more money, that is to say it could be for asylum seekers, extra administration, expensive bureaucracy, bad IT systems, and what I know, because then one could show on the spreadsheet that we have increased public spending, but there would not be one in schools, in kindergartens or in older centres that would have improved, perhaps rather the opposite. So I guess my point is, uh... and I hear that too, sir. René Christensen says it's about what we get out of it, that is, focus on the result and not on the billions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103346	Again, as I also said to the previous question: it is probably a combination of both. The spreadsheet is very good, because there we can see what is needed. Then, of course, we will split up the spreadsheet, and that is also why, until 2025, we can see that about half of the demographic move is now beginning to fall, because we are getting fewer and fewer refugees and immigrants because of non-Western immigration. So that's why the spreadsheet is kind of fine. But no to going out alone and saying that the most important thing for us is to spend the money. It is not important for the Danish People's Party just to spend the money. It's important to spend it on the right thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103417	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103420	Thank you. My question is about the bet pool. It's this pool where a majority in this Parliament puts their hands in the pockets of folk pensioners, early retirement pensioners and unemployed people every year and grabs some of the money they would otherwise have had so that their purchasing power year by year is eroded. The Danish People's Party will now stop this erosion when it comes to folk pensioners, and thank you for that. It's about time. The Danish People's Party has so far helped to steal about DKK 8,000. per year from an old-age pensionist. I have not heard whether the Danish People's Party intends to return that money, but this will be stopped in the future for folk pensioners. I think that's really good. Enhedslisten has wanted that for many years, so we can warmly support it. But my question is: why stop with the pensioners? Why should our early-retirers, people affected by disability, people who have no chance of getting back into the labour market because they do not have a working capacity be hit? Why will the Danish People's Party continue to play a part in putting their hands in their pockets every year and denouncing their purchasing power? Do you want it from the Danish People's Party, or do you want a fight with all this theft from the groups in our society that already have the very least?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103532	As a starting point, our proposal is not to take it away from everyone, but we say pensioners, and I am of course also sorry that I have not said it strongly enough, i.e. also pensioners. But that will still apply in this way to cash benefits recipients and others who contribute, and why so? Why don't you get rid of it completely while you're at it? you can ask the Danish People's Party. If you look at what the money is being spent on, then we ourselves have also helped to translate the bet pool. There are a lot of good suggestions in the bet pool, and it has moved a lot. You can see that the vast majority actually go back to the citizens who have paid for themselves. But when you look at just the older ones, it's actually only 2-5 per cent. of the actions that have been in the rate pool, which has targeted them, the rest has targeted other areas. That is why we have said that we would like to exempt pensioners, and we would also like to say here in response to the question that this should also apply to early retirement pensioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103620	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103622	In other words, are the early retirement pensioners also to be exempted? I think that's a really, really important message. I think there are a lot of people out there, and all I can say is that it's Enhedslisten one hundred percent behind. I still think it is a major problem that the Danish People's Party will continue to help, for example. For example, people on cash benefits, on maternity benefits, on sickness benefits, which are already some of the groups with the least benefit, finance, for example: the fight against homelessness or drug abuse. It is an unfair arrangement, but I acknowledge that early retirement will also be included in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103659	What we have put down on it is also such a little, what to call it, justice, when you look at what the pools are being used for. And then those who are on early retirement or old-age pensions must also remember that they are on a permanent basis. Those who are on cash benefits or other forms of transfer income should, of course, be only for a shorter or longer period. When we look at the measures that the rate pool has actually financed, the money actually goes back to a large part of that group, because we have therefore worked on how to upgrade those who are most away from the labour market. Of course, it also benefits those who are on cash benefits or cash benefits. A great deal has been done for those who have problems in the social field. Many of them are also on cash benefits. So if you look at it that way with justice, you have to say that those who have got the very least out of the rate pool are early retirement and old-age pensioners, but they have financed more than half of the pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103749	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, if he wishes to speak. He won't, so we'll move on to Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103800	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I do not think there was so much about green conversion, so I would really like to hear the visions of the Danish People's Party for the green transition and ensuring that we have a good climate, a good environment forward-looking, that we meet the UN's sustainability targets, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103820	There is no doubt that green conversion is important. That is also why we are pleased that, just before the summer holidays, all parties entered into an energy settlement where we actually move very much in the right direction, both in terms of the green and in terms of the fact that we have had this paradigm change, where we ask how we can switch green to the delight of everyone, including the citizens who live on land; there we are really glad that this agreement on wind turbines was made. Then it's true that we're going on out there. We want to do that on several parameters, and we did so in the way we did when we made our car agreement; there we went in and weighted the green and the safety much more. I think that is the way to go, that is to say, follow developments and then move in that direction. We also want us to look at what the green is when we put down pools. It may as well be when the individual homeowners or the individual housing association isolate their houses, make their houses more energy-efficient. It is also green conversion to use less energy. It is not always about using another energy source; sometimes it is also about using less energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103919	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906103921	Thank you. I do not think it sounds super ambitious on the part of the Danish People's Party; I have to say that. I would like the Danish People's Party to take an active part in the discussion on what really needs to be done so that we get a real green transition that makes Denmark totally fossil-free. Among other things: The Danish People's Party is also included in the agreement on the North Sea, in relation to the continued extraction of oil. Is this something that the Danish People's Party could enter into a dialogue about, that is, to look at phasing it out and have visions, definite visions, in the green area? Could we see a Danish People's Party that really gets into the fight for the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104002	I think it should be noted that a great deal of what we are getting into the relatively few oil deposits we have in Denmark, we are actually using for green conversion. We have just used them to finance the Train Fund DK with them, and what is the Train Fund DK doing? It actually means that we can phase out yes, you almost think it's a lie, old locomotives from 1986; we can now phase them out, and then we can get ellocomotives, which are green compared to the diesel locomotives we have today. So no, we will not stop extracting oil, because then we would not actually be able to implement what we want, that is to say to have green public transport, particularly in the railway sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104039	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104042	Thanks for the speech. In fact, I was encouraged to hear that the Danish People's Party has begun to have a little concern over this annual saving in education, which, as the rapporteur says, has hit the hardest in rural areas over the last three years and hardest in those colleges and vocational schools where it is already difficult to keep up the number of pupils, because the collection basis is not so large. In fact, according to our calculations, we have saved the equivalent of 6 000 jobs outside the large cities, while at the same time trying to move out some state jobs, which then fill much less. So that's a good signal coming today. I do not quite understand why only vocational schools are to be looked at. There was also something about some small secondary schools that the rapporteur might be able to elaborate on. But I understand, I would say, that there is then a need to keep a hand in all youth education, not least in rural areas. There is also a need to keep a hand under professional high schools. After all, we have lacked nurses, midwives, educators and teachers, especially outside the big cities. So why do you want to keep cutting compared to them? There is therefore an equally great need to keep their hands under them if what you want is that we can also attract qualified labour to our public sector outside the big cities. Then you could not hope that you could agree with the Danish People's Party that it is not just the vocational schools you are looking at, but also a little wider the educations on which we are all so dependent and which they are crying out for us to hold our hands outside the big cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104221	There is no doubt that we want to target the introduction of the re-prioritisation contribution, and we must remember that it is called a re-prioritisation contribution It is not the case that this money has been taken from the education system and then it has been thrown into the garbage bin. We have spent it on other welfare benefits, and we have the economy we have and we have the welfare society that we decide we want. We also believe that this has been obvious in the field of education. We have had the re-priority contribution in all the state organisations, and we have had it in the regions, for a long time. Now we have also introduced it in the field of education, and we have actually done so in the museums in the same round, and we have done so with our eyes open. There we have to say that vocational schools in particular are just challenged by some other parameters. It is not only of the 2%, but there are simply some structures around them that have changed. I mentioned it before, both in relation to the 2+2 requirement, i.e. 2 in Danish and 2 in mathematics, while at the same time we have a boom, so there is simply a lower recruitment basis. That is why we believe that vocational schools should be freed for 2019. I would also say that it has only been running for two years and not for three years. We'll take a look at the high schools. There we would like a definition of the smaller high schools. We have not determined what a smaller high school is, in other words, in relation to recruitment. That is where we want it to stop, that is to say an expiry date by 2020. Then you will have drove with a re-priority contribution for a four-year period. The rest we would also like to discuss with the government. After all, it is up to us to continue until 2022 and, in this way, continue to do so and then give the money back to the areas, but of course not at institutional level. There we are somewhat sceptical about the model proposed by the government. It may well be that at some of the universities you can rationalize something, because you want a special research path or something, and that makes sense. But that's not where we've gotten to it. But we would like an expiration date, including for general colleges, including the big ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104400	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104402	Let's just agree on the facts first, namely that the re-prioritisation contribution for education and culture is important to get with the • which has also hit very hard outside the major cities, has been running in 2016, 2017 and 2018. So let's agree that it's been running for 2 3/4 years. It then has to continue in 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022 • according to the government and in the last year you can then take something back. I would actually like to sign for the fact that the Danish People's Party says it as skinlessly as you do, so that you think it has been a good idea to cut youth education so hard over the last three years. We do not think so, nor do we think it is a good idea to continue doing so for another three years at all the country's colleges, production colleges, universities and museums, in other words in the cultural field. So there is a difference and I would actually like to sign that the rapporteur has just confirmed it. You want to keep your hand under the vocational schools and we are happy about that, too, but you will not be helping for the next three years to try to keep your hand under the high schools and production colleges, not least outside the big cities. That's correct, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104509	No, this is the debate we are going to have. It is more an expression of the fact that we are completely clarified politically in relation to vocational schools. There we have set a date called 2019 where we want it phased out. We have also said that we would like to have a definition of the smaller colleges, i.e. the rural gymnasiums. There we can see that there will be a challenge and there we would like to see it phased out by 2020. In relation to the rest, we simply have to apologize, I say it not to talk to the emotions and about something we believe. There we have to start work, that is to say an evaluation of what this has meant in relation to the time that has passed and then take a decision. But I think it's important for all institutions to know whether you're big or small, or whether you're in the province or in a big city, too, to know when it stops. I mean, when is it gonna stop? In fact, I think it will give some peace out there if you know at a high school that this runs until 2020 and then it stops. With the government model, you don't know about getting your money back after 2022. You know you have to turn them in, but it is not certain that they will return to the high school that has delivered them. It may be that something quite different is going to happen somewhere else in the country, and that's where we think you have to be careful. A re-prioritisation contribution may have a value at first, but in the end it will not be a re-prioritisation. Then it will be pure savings for the sake of saving, and the low-hanging fruits are picked.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104620	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104624	Sir. In his speech, René Christensen said that the accident should be stopped by cutting out the amount available to the elderly, and that can be used in a number of areas. It can also be used in the field of education. After all, we hear from several educators, both from vocational schools and also from Danish colleges, that there are simply educational institutions which are so pressured on the economy that, if this continues for just a few more years, they risk going bankrupt and having to close down. The rapporteur knows this as well as I am a disaster, especially in areas where the fact that they are there makes it possible for some people to receive youth education. Because there are limits to it all surveys show how far young people will move to take an education. So if it's very, very far away, some people just don't get one. So it is a disaster, not just for the individual, but also for the local area. I hear the rapporteur say something like that on the one hand and, of course, on vocational training, but not in high schools. There you could go in and stop the accident now. There I just do not hear a clear answer from the rapporteur as to whether that is what is going to be done. Yes, in vocational education and training, and we are very pleased about that, and we also expect that there will be no financial agreement without the clear demand being met, but there are also some high schools that are important for rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104804	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104806	I hardly know how to make this clearer. It is true that we in the vocational schools want it removed in 2019, but I would like to say that we never have the ultimate requirements. We go in and have a debate with the government and a discussion on how to solve the challenges with the opportunities offered by a financial law for 2019. Then there is the second thing about high schools, and I think that I too was very clear in relation to the high schools which the rapporteur also refers to, in other words the smaller colleges, particularly in the province. And I fully agree with the analysis. If you see that there are high schools in the province that have to be put together, then there will be more education, and then it may be that there are young people who choose education from and choose something else, and if we have more young people who do not choose another education, we have only really lost. There we have said that by 2020 we would like to have a definition of what some colleges are called the smaller colleges. As rapporteur for the budget, we must be careful not to say: I know exactly when a high school is a small rural gymnasium. Because I just don't. We need a little help there, and we can get that in the context of the Finance Act. So it's the smaller high schools. We are clear there and we are also clear in relation to vocational schools. And then we would also like clarification on the rest. I mean, how are we gonna get on with this? Could there be a differentiation in relation to the re-prioritisation contribution in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104917	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906104918	I think it is also important to have clear definitions. Because there are, in fact, some colleges which are located in rural areas but which are not particularly small because they have a huge catchment area. So you also have to be careful to say that it is only some very small high schools. However, I think I understood the rapporteur so that it is in particular where the economy is really challenged and where it is also of enormous importance for the local area that you want to look at it. Another area where you can also say that you can stop the accident is, after all, in relation to the erosion of the entire area of the elderly. There was a great deal of mention by the rapporteur of the amount available, and we are very much in agreement with DF in that. But there is also the whole care sector and that part of the welfare society that goes to the elderly, and there we can see that there is a shortage of 5 billion. kr. in relation to demographic trends in the area of the elderly alone. I know that there is a discussion about what the demographic trait is, etc., and that the government in particular does not recognise this limit with which most others operate, and that is not to restart that discussion. However, in the area of the elderly, there is a factual lack of 5 billion. kr. This is the first time in the history of the European Community. Well, it's not in the future, but it's now. That is where we could stop the accident, for example. Got together in our parties. We have a proposal from the SF for an old-age guarantee, in which we say that the older development that exists in the municipalities, we must fund crowns for crowns. In other words, the municipalities should not be left with the huge financial backlog that exists, because it will only affect the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105052	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105053	Then we are a little back on what Jacob Jensen asked me, namely whether it is only about money. It's not just about money, but it's also about money and I can give you a good example. If you're older and you can actually walk, but you're having a hard time going to the bathroom, it's like today that you get an alarm, and then you can call it. Then you press it, and then one or two home helpers come running in a car to you. They help the citizen in the toilet and wait for what he had to do and help the citizen back up again. Then there is a municipality that says: We simply do not think it is worthy that you should sit and wait to go to the bathroom so we buy an intelligent toilet. Here you get the bathroom decorated so you can take care of yourself, and you can go to the bathroom yourself. I think that's dignity. But I just want to say that it actually also brings a great deal of savings. Because there is the price of such a toilet in relation to you having to come one more twice a day or several times • and help a citizen in the toilet, very high. So you can't just say it has to be crown to crown, compared to how many older people there are. What we need to do is to use the new model that we have also talked about in the Committee on Finance, namely the output model. We should not only look at how much money we put in, we should also look at what quality we get out, and we should not talk the elderly down and say: Your experience of care for the elderly is not important; it is only important for us politicians what it costs. No, the experience of care for the elderly is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105204	Thank you. Then we move on to the question line. Sir. Anders Johansson does not wish to speak, and that is why we shall move on to Mr Rogalla's report. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105215	Thank you. After all, the whole premise for the fiscal debate now and in these years is that there will be more older people in the years to come, and there will also be more children. And that's really positive. Up to the last elections, the Danish People's Party was very clear that there was a need for significantly greater public growth, i.e. money for municipalities and regions, in order to be able to keep up with the costs that will be incurred when there are more care-intensive elderly people and more costs in hospitals etc. Nor are we going back any further than the Danish People's Party summer group meeting in 2016 to hear that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl repeated that a growth of 0.8%. was what the Danish People's Party wanted. Instead, agreements are concluded in these years, where you do not follow at all, but thus underfinance the welfare, as also Jyllands-Posten documented in an article last week. It has gone from such very clear reports of significant funding to municipalities, for example. When more older people arrive, we hear today how Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party and Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left sends soft balls to each other, and a financial agreement is planned here. The conflict has completely disappeared; the Danish People's Party seems to have gone into the government's way of thinking about these things. Therefore, I have to ask directly: will the DF continue to underfinance the welfare costs that exist when there are more older and more children? Will the financial agreement, which will certainly be concluded, involve helping the municipalities with the costs they receive or will they not keep up and not pay, for example? so that there will be more older people?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105349	I just want to say that the Danish People's Party is very fond of the financial laws we have made together with previous governments, both the Left Government and the current government. Then why are we? We came from a period of social democratic government where there was minus growth. There was less money in the public sector. We are really glad that we have changed that. Then it is true that we have not reached 0.8%. Today, fortunately, the cost of non-western immigrants has fallen. They have fallen, so there must now be a move of 0.65%, and that is what is needed. We're kind of happy about that. We are pleased that we have moved from the fact that we came from a period when they cut and cut and the municipalities out there screamed until we now among others. Very quickly, it has been possible to get through a dignified billion, so there are 1,000 million. kr. more annually earmarked for the elderly area out to the municipalities. But what worries me most now is that next year it will come over the block. I have been told today that, for example, we have been told that we are going to have to do something about it. In Odense Municipality says that because it gets over the block, there is no need to spend all the money in the area of the elderly. They simply have too much money in the area of the elderly in Odense Municipality, so they take some money from the dignity billion: 3.5 million. kr. they will take from what is called a dignified death, that is to say that you get out of here well and spend on something else because it does not come over the block. I am concerned that the municipalities are saying that they simply have too much money in the area of the elderly, because they do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105501	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105503	I think it's out of the question. It is very well adapted to the time available for it, but it is therefore one minute's chatter where there is no answer to the question I am asking: Does the Danish People's Party agree to conclude a financial agreement with the government, which does not care that more money is needed when there are also more older people? What the government is proposing in its economic policy is that every time there are two older people more than 70 years of age, money will only be set aside for a little more than one, in fact. We don't think that's a good way to do that. This whole discussion gets completely decoupled from what's going on out there in municipal reality. In here you can talk about dignity billions and everything else, but what you are doing out there in municipal budgets is typically making new savings. In order to avoid this, to ensure that there is proper funding when there is, for example. More older people and more children in the day care institutions • We just need a clear answer from the Danish People's Party: Do you want to spend the money again to lighten the tax instead of keeping up with and paying more to the municipalities when they get higher costs for older people and children?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105609	This is a rather awkward discussion because, first of all, there are not very many tax cuts in this Finance Act. You just have to admit that there isn't. So that's not what we're talking about here. Secondly, about this money thing: I thought only Enhedslisten had it there with crowns for crowns. Let me give another example just to draw such a picture of how foolish a discussion it is: If I have a heating cost of DKK 20,000 at home, then I will isolate my house, so next year I only have a heating cost of DKK 16,000. Has my house become much, much colder? There isn't. I have made an investment, which is why my expenditure has fallen, and I have actually got a better indoor climate. Well, that's how it is. It's not just about spending money. I do not recognise that every time we become a citizen more, it costs exactly the same today as it cost five years ago. Listen to this: In the municipalities, they are also super capable of finding new solutions. They are excellent at providing good care for the elderly. They're super good at finding out how to do better. They are also getting better at fixing the green areas and everything else. It costs less, and then they can also change priorities, take something from the green area and move it to the older area, which is really good. But there will be no minus growth in any of the financial laws that the Danish People's Party has helped to make, and that will not happen in the future either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105714	Thank you. Then we move on in the line of questioners. It's sir. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105741	Thank you for that, President. In no way do I think that the rapporteur replied to Mr Seligman's question. Jesper Petersen's question. That is why I just want to ask the very simple question: will the financial agreement, which the Danish People's Party is obviously already in, and which they are making with the government, mean that the economy in the public sector, the economy for the common welfare, if you like, is large enough to meet the demographic trait that will be because there will be more children and more elderly people, and because there are more people who need to be treated with a new medicine in our hospitals?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105826	I really appreciate the question. Firstly, we can say that what is in the presentation from the government is also welcome. There, the public growth rate is set at 0.4 per cent. In other words, it is positive when one considers that all the governing parties were in the way of zero growth or negative growth. You should also remember that it probably doesn't end up at the 0.4 percent when the Danish People's Party has been in the room. In fact, we want some improvements in the welfare areas, and in the area of the elderly in particular, we want a boost. Secondly, I would also like to say, when you ask about the school area, that I mentioned earlier the figure of 35 000 young people under 25 who have been searched for a fugitive. So there are 35,000 young people who have not been given a basis so that they could start an education after either 9th or 10th grade. This means that something is needed in the municipalities. So, yes, we want more money to come to welfare, but we also want less money to come in some places. This is among other things. to non-Western immigration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105917	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906105919	Sir. Jesper Petersen had the opportunity to ask two questions. Now I have asked a question, and the rapporteur keeps on avoiding it. It may be that there will be a social democrat or someone else who can follow up, because this is actually a rather central issue. After all, it is not because the Danish People's Party has held back from making promises in welfare areas. I guess the rapporteur is nodding that too here. That is why it is simply, and it is in itself a revelation, a quite simple question. It's not that hard. If you want to avoid the savings that the regions are making now, because the economy which the Danish People's Party has founded on the previous Finance Act and the Economic Agreements is not sufficient, you must ensure that there is money to enable the regions, municipalities, public authorities and the state as a whole to stay within it and to be able to respond to everyone. And how do you do that? This is done by ensuring that there is the money to be spent on the demographic trait, that is to say, for more elderly people, more dependent elderly people, more children in schools, new requirements for education, better treatment in hospitals and new and more expensive medicines. We have been discussing this for many years in here. The discussion is not unknown. So the rapporteur does not have to answer bypass now for the fourth time. That is why the question is: when the glass door closes over in the Ministry of Finance and when Mr. René Christensen is standing outside the glass door with a financial agreement under the arm, which everyone knows is coming, will you be able to look up in it and see that the Danish People's Party has ensured that the public economy is such that it will be able to deal with the demographic trait of more elderly people and more children and more sick people? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110100	Everyone talks about the demographic trait, but you just forget a little that it's about the elderly. The demographic move is about the expenditure that exists. I think the rapporteur knows that too. That's why there's more to it. There are simply some of the things that lie in the demographic trait that we do not want to finance. In fact, we do not want to finance additional expenditure on non-Western immigration. Listen, we're spending $36 billion. kr. a year on non-Western immigration. If we can bring it down by just 10%. Over a short period of time, we have 3.6 billion. kr. a year that we can spend on something else. What will happen then? So we're gonna have a demographic move of 6.5? No, it'll be less. Have we cut our welfare? No, we cut the cost. Well, it's a strange discussion to go for the number. Then it is true when it is said: you yourself have gone after the number. It is absolutely true that the Danish People's Party has also said that it is important for us that there is room for it. It is also, of course, because one came from a situation with a minus growth • that there was therefore a minus growth • while, as such, we were one of the few parties in the Folketing who said that there was actually room for a small moderate increase in public spending. And I can promise that there will be an increase in public spending in relation to the move that has been made, and it will also be greater than in the move that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110214	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Joachim B. Olsen signed up as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. And Mr. Finn Sørensen can go and get ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110225	Thank you. Now, sir. René Christensen has, I think, 3-4 questions in a row about the demographic trait, and that is something that is being interpreted quite religiously. But all the rapporteurs who have been shooting at Mr. René Christensen has not understood at all what the demographic trait is. Because they're using it. It's an expression coming from the Ministry of Finance. And what does the Ministry of Finance write about the demographic trait? They write: Calculation of the demographic trait is of a mechanical nature and must be interpreted cautiously. The calculation does not take into account the fact that the cost of an additional user may differ from the average cost per user. user. But that's exactly what all those who shoot at Mr. Knox... René Christensen, doesn't. They say the last user costs as much as the average user. And so they use the expression wrong. Their whole argument is based on the fact that if public consumption does not follow the demographic trend, it will be per year. Automatically worse. And that's not true. That is a misinterpretation of what the Ministry of Finance says. The whole argument of the left is untrue and does not add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110337	I didn't really hear any question to Mr. René Christensen. I think that was just a comment from the Liberal Alliance, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Finn Sørensen. No, I didn't hear a question. Sir. René Christensen is welcome to comment, but there has to be a question. We have to hold on to that. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110400	Well, I actually heard a question. I did not see it as a question of whether I agree with that interpretation. And I kind of am. And that's true, you can sort of see out there. Well, if we just go back a few years and look at what it cost to do hip surgery and how long it took to do rehabilitation etc. etc., and compares with today, so it has to be said that we are doing some really bad hip surgery. Apparently nobody is getting well, because the operations cost only a third of what they cost in the past. So patients must be less well treated. But they are not; they are actually better treated, but at a third of the price. And that's interesting. The Danish People's Party does not say that there is no need for money. Money is needed, but why do we not devote our energies to discussing what we should spend the money on instead of just discussing the money? It does not provide any content for the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110444	I'd like to know if Mr. Kim is here. Joachim B. Olsen has further questions. No? Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110451	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that the Danish People's Party would like to reward those who can stand to work longer and to work until the ever higher retirement age, which the Danish People's Party also supports. But what about all those who can't? What are these people gonna do for a living? The Danish People's Party owes a reply to that. I would just like to remind the rapporteur of a statement made by his party chairman on 22 May 2017: remember that when you raise retirement age by law, you do so for everyone. Then you do it too for many of those who are worn out and who actually need a retirement age so that they can get away from the labour market. Quote out. That is as true and true as it has been said. That is why raising the retirement age as the average life expectancy increases is so low. If you are to take the consequences of this, the Danish People's Party must terminate the settlement in which they are involved. And my question is: Will the Danish People's Party do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110556	Then Mrs. Astrid Krag must go upstairs and get ready. And then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110600	No. We do not want to cancel that. But I would also like to answer that question. Well, it's strange that someone thinks it's such a punishment to go to work. It's not. So I meet a lot of seniors who actually want to stay on the labour market. And the proposal we have is not about working longer in one's working life; in fact, it is about working longer after retirement. It is actually the case that we can see that there are a number of people who reach retirement age who have set up a pension, but there are also some who have fewer hours when it simply cannot pay to set up a pension. There we have some set-off rules which make it impossible for them to remain in the labour market. Nowadays, you can make $60,000. without set-off. But when you make more than 60,000 kroner. In other words, it is not worth going to work for pensioners. Well, it just costs them money to go to work. That is why we say: well, if anyone wants and can do and it is not the worn out; I fully agree with that, then we would like to give them an opportunity to contribute to the labour market. It offers a job offer, and I am also quite sure that it brings pleasure to the lives of those who can avail themselves of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110656	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110658	Listen to me! I asked: what about all those people who cannot stand to work for a distant retirement age? The fact is that the Danish People's Party has committed itself to voting in 2020 for an increase in the pensionable age to 69 years; it has entangled itself in a settlement which means that newborns can only retire today when they are 77 years old. What about all the people who can't stand to work so long? What is the Danish People's Party's response to them? That's what I asked. The only thing that can be said is that we stand firm on conciliation, regardless of the consequences for the many, many thousands of people. It's a growing group of people. The higher the retirement age, the more people will be unable to work for that long. What are these people gonna do for a living?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110745	Firstly, I find it interesting that Enhedslisten already knows what average life expectancy is in about 70 years' time. It is, in fact, very well-shouldered that it has already been calculated. We would like to borrow that bullet from time to time in the Danish People's Party, so we can look 70 years into the future. Another part of that is that we do not expect everyone to be able to work until they retire. That is why we have flex jobs, that is why we have other opportunities for those who have a working life but who become worn out, and then they cannot continue to work until their retirement age. Those rules have not been abolished because the retirement age is rising by six months. They're not, they're not out of effect. We still have that safety net in our welfare society. Let me just say, then, that it is true that the former Socialist-led government undermined some form of early retirement because it has become quite difficult. The same applies for that matter to getting a flex job. It has succeeded a little now, but it is flex jobs that are down for a few hours a week that are increasing, and in fact I do not believe that society and the individual do not always enjoy that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110850	Thanks to Finn Sørensen. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party, and then Mr. Christian Juhl well prepare himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906110858	Well, I really want to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for an incredibly good cooperation in the area of older people. We have put some important things on the agenda together. Sometimes we have had to put together a majority outside the government, and we have done so when necessary. This means, of course, that some very sensible things have happened in relation to this one with the possibility of several hours and the whole discussion about recruitment. So thank you for your cooperation, which has clearly meant a lot. I have to say, when I listen to this debate on the demographic aspect, that it was a rather shaky discussion, because when the model takes into account more expensive treatments and new medicines that have been developed, the model of course also takes account of the fact that hip surgery can be made smarter and cheaper, otherwise it would be a completely insane, crazy model. And that is not a model that the Danish People's Party has had so much against so far. All we have to do is return to the summer group meeting at Dansk Folkeparti in 2016, where Kristian Thulesen Dahl was very concrete, compared to the fact that it was the point of reference for what was to happen by growth in the public sector up to 2025. So something has happened in the meantime. I really don't want to throw myself into that discussion of numbers that several people have been doing, and I don't think anyone's gotten much smarter. So I just want to hear from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether he recognises what we know from the sosu's and what we know from the educators, namely that they experience that they have had fewer colleagues in the last three years, that fewer colleagues have come to the nursing home and that fewer colleagues have come to the nursery.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111020	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111022	Yes, we recognize that, and so there is a need for a boost. But there is also a need to look at what working conditions these people have, and that is also what I said in my rapporteur's speech. The challenge is particularly in the field of sosu, not so much in the field of educating that a great many municipalities, because it is easy, do not have full-time positions posted in relation to sosu's. Well, that makes it a job that is attractive enough, and I think that a lot of people who are learning to do this really want to do it, but you just have a hard time living off it because you have so few hours. And that is why I am pleased that the government is once again setting aside money for us to work on how to increase this recruitment. We also did so in connection with last year's Finance Act, but we have not solved it. Nor do I have all the answers to what kind of model you have to make, because of course there are some times in the day when it is more important. But I think that part of it is economics. There has been savings in the municipalities. It may also surprise me, and I hear it from several quarters now that because the dignity billion is transferred to the block grant, you start saving in the area of the elderly. It simply cannot be right for the municipalities to go in and save in that area when they say they have too little money. Then we will have to use more and what should be said about robust ways of managing the municipalities' finances, and that is a pity in relation to municipal self-government. But maybe that's the way forward, that is, when we drop money, we don't just lock it for a few years; then we'll have to lock it, maybe even forever. But that's too bad if that's where we're going. There is a lack of money in the municipalities, but strange priorities are also taking place in the municipalities. I'm in one myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111138	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111140	I hope the rapporteur himself does not feel that he is behind strange priorities. No, I don't). But I am glad that we have made it clear that it is true that there are fewer colleagues in nursing homes and that there are fewer colleagues in kindergartens, that this is not something you just feel like, but that it is right. So the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says: what method are we going to use? Indeed, we should not use a method whereby, year by year, we basically underfinance the welfare that has been done, and I would ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to tell me whether he agrees with that. An article in Jyllands-Posten could show that basic public expenditure has overall been underfinanced by 4.4 billion. kr. over the last three years, and that is what the rapporteur describes. I can make the rapporteur even more sad, because I have also seen what is happening in a municipality with the 500 million. kr. that has been set aside for increased norms: There is an employee who is allowed to get up in time, but it is explicit in the agreement that she just goes down in time again when the pool expires. That is why this is not a way to do it, as the Danish People's Party has been involved in some financial laws. We welcome the money that has been raised in the area of the elderly, but the reality is that, year by year, when we underfinance our welfare, something like this is going to happen, and it is hopeless and terrible, mostly for the elderly, but also for the employees who have to live with it. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether it does not make much sense to ensure that the basic funding for our welfare is there and whether the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party recognises the calculation that shows that there has been a total under-financing of almost 4.5 billion. kr. for the last three years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111307	Welfare has become the kind of word we just say, like demographic traits. You say "themographical traits," and then you think everyone knows what it means, and we each think ours when we say it. I would like to say that when we say "welfare" in the Danish People's Party, we are thinking of core welfare. And what is nuclear welfare? It's just a word you're sneaking around with. This is among other things. the area of the elderly, these are children and young people, and that is the area of education. These are the three areas we call core welfare. Then there are a lot of things around which we actually think some rationalization can take place. I would just like to take one such example and then there are some who may get angry because they have an interest in it: Why is it that it has suddenly become a municipal task in the vast majority of municipalities to run a superliga stadium? Is it core welfare to run a superliga stadium? In other words, this is a priority in the municipalities, and one could discuss whether it is core welfare to run a superliga stadium. We would like to discuss this with the municipalities if they really think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111359	Thank you. And then we go to Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, and I'll just say that's the last question we'll get before time is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111407	Then we'd better do it well and thoroughly. Last year the rapporteur promised me that he would probably prepare better this year because he could not really find out about the Factory Inspectorate and preventive work. So I'll try again. Each year, 60,000 people are affected by an occupational injury. 2,000 of them die at some point of the occupational injury, occupational disease or accident. That's an incredibly high number. Nevertheless, the Danish People's Party is helping to cut some of the most important things we have, namely the Danish Labour Inspectorate. You cut in 2016 30 posts, you cut in 2017 41 posts, you have this year cut at least 14 posts, and next year you will cut 25 posts. I think that the investment in the Factory Inspectorate and preventive work is an investment in reducing the number of people injured and thus reducing the amount they cost. That is a very, very large amount, I should like to say from the Minister for Employment. Why do you keep going this course instead of helping to fix it and then get some proper preventive work done so we don't have to have so many injured people? 60,000 Danes every year!
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111520	In the Danish People's Party we fully recognise that this is an important area. It is important to have a good working environment for everyone. Even if you may not be a Danish citizen but come from outside, it is important that we also have controls that come out and look for proper working conditions, not only pay conditions but also working conditions, so that safety is in order in the workplace. That is why we have actually also helped to secure money for a good working environment. What is probably the problem, and that is probably what the rapporteur is starting out from, is that we had and now I do not actually remember when 2 years, when you had a very high level and when you dropped extra money off. And when you have a high level for a number of years, you come back down. I mean, when that money's gone, you come back down. Then it is true that we then had a year where you were significantly further down than you were before the extra grant, and it followed the Danish People's Party together with the government up for us to have a good working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111610	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111612	Thank you. I don't think there's a lot of people who understand that there's been a time. Those who can understand something are the people who are going wrong today, and there are 110 less people next year who can look after them and control the bad working conditions. You have, I'm sorry, the Danish People's Party has been involved in that. I would like to quote the rapporteur's favourite minister, Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen. He said in 2007: with the figures we see today, I can see that the work on working conditions has failed, that the effort is simply not working as intended. Is it not time to invest in preventive work and save some of the 80 billion that it is believed to cost society and businesses? 80 billion a year costs this. Isn't it time for us to have an investment in preventive work soon instead of just pouring it down and getting it all under the floorboards?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111701	I actually agree that this is important. But again, I believe that the previous discussion has been that we have actually spent a great deal of money on it, and yet we have seen that there have been these many accidents. I am not saying that less money will be needed, more money will be needed, I agree with that. But we must also look at what kind of control pressure we have out there. What kind of a way are we controlling? Now we have to start with the rather large infrastructure projects, both Fehmarn, Storstrømbro and other projects, and it may also be surprising if you sit and look at the fact that the proposal is actually being cut back in that area too, and these are some of the things that we naturally also have in the budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111736	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was the end of questions. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906111746	Thank you. Once upon a time, there was a country where many of the population were unemployed, where the sick were on a waiting list instead of being treated, where taxes were towering, but in spite of this, more elderly and vulnerable groups had to look far for reasonable help from the community. Fortunately, this is no longer the case. Denmark is a lovely country. It is not a perfect country, but it is one of the best in the world. For as Hans Christian Andersen wrote: In Denmark I was born, there I have home, there I am messed up, from where my world goes. And when I look around the world and see the challenges that many countries and peoples face, what we are going to discuss here today is, of course, in the petty section. That's details. Nevertheless, the important details are. It's about the Danes' everyday life in desire and need. It is about our children, about the sick, about older citizens, about jobs, about creating opportunities for the skilled and persistent, about the security, security and proximity of those who need help. However, we must be careful not to turn a feather into five chickens when we try to make ourselves up to the people with promises to do better than our political colleagues. We must be credible and realistic about our wishes. We cannot expect to meet a witch on the road that allows us to crawl into a hollow tree and down there find coffins filled with gold coins as well as dogs with eyes as big as teacups. The money must be made before it can be used. A focus area for government finance law is therefore also continuing to adapt and improve the conditions for investing and creating jobs in Denmark. Lower taxes in selected areas, less bureaucracy and a prioritising of the Disruption Council's work with e.g. Education is a step in that direction. To create a breeding ground for investment and job creation and to ensure a well-qualified workforce that is adaptable at a time when changes are moving ever faster, it cannot be overestimated as a focus area. For we must be able to afford to take good care of each other, both children and the elderly as well as all those with evil in body and soul. I am therefore also pleased that the government's proposals have a massive focus on these areas. Making a good start to life for children is one of the best things to do for the child's later life. In Denmark it must never be like in the little girl with the sulfur sticks, where she is left poor and lost to the cold of the night without anyone taking care of her. In Denmark we are one of the most equal countries in the world purely economically. Well, the inequality increased slightly under the former S-led government, but we're still at the top. And with the financial bill, the government puts on seven-mile boots and puts extra emphasis on the efforts of vulnerable mentally ill people, as well as once again increasing the financial resources for the somatic health area. It is a game for the government's health initiative that is expected to come later in the autumn. Here, too, the focus will be on close health as a natural next step, now that the hospital structure is taking shape. At the time of the change of government in 2001, if not an ugly duckling, health care was far from the standard that one could rightly expect from a modern welfare society. Patients were on long waiting lists, not least with critical diseases, where the time factor is essential for survival. The quality of the operations performed was in many cases nothing to brag about, yes, some would think that it was all the way to Clumsy Hans. I am not saying that health care has today become a beautiful swan, but a massive effort in terms of resource allocation, the recruitment of professional staff, patient rights with rapid investigation and treatment rights, freedom of choice of hospital and a structural adjustment where special care of high quality is offered have made a huge difference. But despite the fact that there are sometimes high waves and challenges with IT systems and a shortage of personnel in selected areas, inflexible systems, yes, we as the steadfast tin soldier are stuck in the boat. We do not allow ourselves to be intimidated by rats in the sewers or large fish that will try to prevent the continuing journey towards an even better health care system with the patient in the centre. The government's priority for the elderly is also an important part of next year's financial law. We must treat our older fellow citizens well and dignifiedly, and not as the fir tree that was looking forward to its old age, where it was decorated and stood up in the living room and then after Christmas to wither and be thrown on the dungeon. An increased financial space for the elderly, help for the municipalities so that they can recruit more sosu assistants, and an effort against the loneliness of the elderly are just some of the elements of that priority. The cohesion of our country is a force, both the cohesion of social and transport. With the funds allocated for a feasibility study of the Kattegat bridge, we are also taking the first but important steps to bind Denmark even better together. Think of how the Great Belt Bridge has reduced the country. Today one can hardly imagine Danish infrastructure without a Storebælt Bridge. Something similar I think will happen with a fixed connection over the Kattegat. One thing is the saved journey time and the new opportunities that it will offer, but another and perhaps even more important thing is the greater understanding between the parts of the country, our small country, despite which an Kattegat bridge will be able to provide, when even more will be able to travel through the country in even less time. To travel is, as you know, to live. We have already heard many comments about the government's proposal to the Finance Act... doesn't work, away, sounds the classic opposition commentary. But that would have sounded that way, no matter what had come of suggestions. But if we then reject something, we must also be able to expect and perhaps even demand that we bring ourselves something else and something better and not just a dead crow, an old wooden shoe and a pocket full of stains in an attempt to impress the princess or the people in an election year. And we still have the merit of seeing this because not even the largest party in the Danish Parliament, which among many other parties would like to take over the Prime Minister's post, has taken the opportunity to make an initiative that we could discuss and negotiate. I have noted that a brochure has been produced during the night, but it has not been so clinically cleared of figures that figures are everything, but we are talking about a financial bill after all. It's not serious. We in the Left and the government are not tender-knuckled, and we are not, as it were, on either 20 mattresses or 20 lydun duvets to avoid bruises. We are well aware of constructive criticism and do not expect the proposal that has now been put forward to be adopted completely unchanged. But it requires that other parties have something concrete to offer and more than criticism just for the sake of criticism. Many different solutions can certainly be found, but these are the government's, which we in the Left can of course support. Because, as the Minister of Finance says, what gets done is always the right thing to do. And then I can't help but mention, in the event that someone's attention has been ignored, that the government, with the financial bill, also focuses on our national poem Hans Christian Andersen. It is not only with references in this speech, but also with modest financial support for a Hans Christian Andersen Experience Centre. So there is a clear link between words and action, and that is true!
ParlaMint-DK_20180906112513	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the questions, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906112525	Thank you. Thank God, a tour de force in Hans Christian Andersen quotes, love declarations to a great poet, to his country and to his finance minister. I thought of another quote by Hans Christian Andersen: "It's with love as with turtle: Most people know it only the Mock. And, frankly, what comes out of the rapporteur's mouth is quite false, because the truth is that we live in a country that is probably one of the best in the world to live in. The Danish population is measured over and over again as one of the happiest in the world, but it is also going the wrong way on a large number of parameters. For example: become more and Danes insecure, and some of what makes them insecure is that they do not think there will be welfare for them in the future. One of the reasons why they feel this way is, of course, that they can see what is happening, they can look at a government that cuts and cuts. Now you come with a little increased expenditure, not enough, but nevertheless a little, but it is a poor comfort when you have cut massively in the past few years. What will the government actually do in the future? Now we are giving a little this year, but what about the policy in the future? Is it still government policy that there should be no public growth higher than 0.3%? A year?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906112633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906112634	I don't know why, sir. Dan Jørgensen is so negative, but it may be the role of the opposition to be so. When you look at what has happened in recent years, not just the last few, but the last many years, you will see that we have had government responsibility for 13 out of 17 years. During that period, massive resources have been added to the common welfare. There were just a few years, 3 years around where it went the opposite way, and it was strangely enough during the S-led government, where you just cut the allocation of resources, among other things. to the municipalities and thus the bourgeois welfare. That is not the case under our governments. So it is true that the Social Democrats are starting from this demographic trait, that there are more older people, more children and so on, but that is still a mechanical approach to things, because one thing is that we have added additional resources to ensure that there is also the possibility of developing welfare, but just as important is the way we spend the money: what comes out of it, what is the productivity we get, have we found out how to work smarter with our employees? Yes, we do. So not only have more resources been added, increased productivity has also been the result. Of course, the two things put together offer some opportunities. But I am not saying that the country is perfect, because it is not because there are places where we have to do it even better, and that is the case with the mentally ill and health care and elsewhere, absolutely, and that is also why we are giving priority to those areas of our financial legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906112752	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906112754	The rapporteur has now succeeded completely in not answering the question, which was actually very specific. This can hardly be made more specific: is it still the government's policy that there should be no public growth higher than 0.3 in the coming years? Actually, that's just what I asked. Then the rapporteur says that he cannot understand why I am so angry and negative. I'm not the one who's angry and negative. I'm worried, but I am, because there are a lot of Danes who are worried. It's not just something they feel, it's something they can feel. There is not the same welfare as there should be. It's over 17 percent. of the Danish population, which is basically insecure. In 2004, it was just over 2%. So in all those years that the rapporteur would like to boast about where you have had the power, the security of the Danes has gone the wrong way, and that is because, among other things, not enough money is put aside to ensure proper welfare, to ensure proper care for the elderly, to ensure that there are enough hands out there in the municipalities. That is why I would like to ask whether we could not just get the rapporteur to reply clearly and clearly: is it still government policy that public growth should not be more than 0.3%? A year?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906112903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906112904	But I would like to say to Mr. Dan Jørgensen that it is simply not true when it is claimed that we have cut back on the allocation of resources for common welfare. That is simply not true. Resources have been allocated. But that is not what I want to be measured on, and we can have a long discussion on that. I can just say that when Mr. Dan Jørgensen was in government, it went the other way. We've allocated resources, but I don't have to take credit for it or stand and cheer for it, because it's just a fact. But what I want to measure is what comes out of the allocation of resources, what we get out of our skilled staff, what we get from structural adjustments that allow us to debureaucratize some areas so that we can get some hands free so that citizens can just feel that there will be better welfare. We get half the waiting time for cancer treatment, we get increased survival rates when you have had cancer disease, we've got adapted also in the area of the elderly, so you can now in many cases get a meal, we've got new scanners, we've got a medical helicopter. These are all just examples of what it means to have a well-being. That's what I want to measure, and it's not whether the number is 0.2 or 0.3 or 0.5 or 1.2.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113011	Thank you. Then the next question is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113017	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. What I would like to ask concerns what is being heard from the government and, in particular, from the Left, because there is a lot of talk about these challenges, which are, of course, the recruitment of labour. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur about recruitment, because part of it is probably also in the fact that we are training too few people, particularly in the field of vocational training. That is why the real question is whether the Left and the rapporteur share the concern that so few people enter vocational schools and the vocational schools that we can see are under pressure?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113049-2	Yeah, actually, I do. I actually share that concern. That is also why I am very pleased that we are also saying in connection with the Finance Act that we will shortly be presenting a vocational school proposal and that we will be reforming it as the one element, because it is particularly important that we also have enough skilled graduates in the years to come. Well-qualified labour is the key to having welfare not only for this year, but also for the next generation; so it's just about having a reform of it so that we simply get it made more attractive. I must say, however, that we have even had the curve broken for the proportion of those who go out of the 9-10th class and apply to vocational schools, that curve is actually too upward in these years, and that is good. The challenge is then the older ones, you might say, and a large part of the reason is that we have a boom, which means that it is more attractive to apply and take some of these unskilled jobs, and thus we have a lower share of the group applying to vocational schools. And that is part of the explanation for the lower student numbers and the low taximeter allowance, and that is also the financial pressure on the vocational schools. But I completely share Mr. René Christensen's concern, one might say, and that is why we are also working on this issue in the coming period.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113155	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113157	Well, I would like to sign for the answer that comes back; we also choose to take it up as part of the budget negotiations and do not wait until afterwards. There is one other thing, and that is about education, because education is of course important. And again, I have to say, I can still be terrified that so many people are fucking searching. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur, who is the representative of a government party, the Left, whether access to education, in other words geographical location, is also important. At least we in the Danish People's Party believe that it would be inappropriate if we saw that there are training courses in the province shutting down, because this will mean that the young people will get further to the place of education, and so we can risk that we cannot know now that some young people are opting out of education. So the question is really whether you have the same concern that they should get further to the place of education when we look at the province.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113243-2	But I can also confirm that, understood in that way, we know from analyses and studies that distance means something. I am not saying that we should then have schools in each provincial town; I am not saying that. Of course, there must be primary and primary schools, but also higher education, but what I am saying, and this is really what has already been set up with the policy we have been pursuing, is that to be able to transfer some of these educational opportunities to our area, we have received an engineering training for Kalundborg; just to mention an example, there are other examples. Of course, there is a way to go, but there must of course still be quality behind it, but I am quite sure that there can be. So it is clear that geography matters, and that is what has to be included, among other things. The reform of vocational education and training, namely how to ensure that young people, who are the areas where we need the labour force, but where there is just per cent. definition is longer for the educational institutions, they are given the opportunities so that we get them into training and thus get a well-qualified workforce to use later.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113338	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113341	In the summer holiday, more precisely on 22 July, the Finance Minister, who is a party colleague to the rapporteur, said in Jyllands-Posten that now the Left no longer had an ambition for zero growth. Then my interest is aroused, because how is that supposed to be understood? In the draft budget put forward here, we can see that there is a growth in public spending of 0.4 per cent and that the demographic trend is 0.6 per cent, which is just enough to keep the skin on the nose. And if the public sector is not to be permanently lagging behind, not just to stand still while the rest of society is developing its prosperity, then we really need to achieve a growth in public spending of 1.2 per cent. Towards 2025. But my question is, how is this zero growth actually supposed to be understood? For if there is only a growth of 0.4 per cent. In the public sector, it is not just a matter of zero growth per person. user, but actually about minus growth per. is used because you are not up to the level of the demographic trait. So how is zero growth supposed to be understood? Is it really just election pork, that is, something that should sound good? Or is it a smokescreen, a camouflage for a reduction policy? Can we get some more precise definitions here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113505	Deep respect for Mr. Rune Lund's insight into excel spreadsheets and mechanical calculation methods has deep respect for it but, as I think others have said before, among other things. Mr. René Christensen, this isn't about a one-to-one performance where the cost of an extra older person or an extra person at school is exactly the same as the average of all the others. There are of course some possibilities in that the school says that the lights should be lit, that the heat should be there and that teachers should be there, whether there are 18 or 19 pupils in the class. That is an example. Having said that, we are allocating something and increasing it, which Mr. Rune Lund is quite right to note that he is happy, after all, with the budget of the public sector at 0.4 per cent. But it's just one number, in the sense that the number could have been another. It could have been 0.6 or 0.8, and then Mr. Rune Lund might have been happy. But what had we used the last part for? If we had used it for some extra bureaucracy and administration, we would have used it for expenses in the field of asylum; if we had used it for inefficient IT systems, then we would have spent the money, and then it would have looked fine in the spreadsheet. If it had been 0.6%, everything would have been good, because then we would have filled up in relation to the level of the demographic move. I don't give a shit about that. I am interested in what comes out of quality and results to the benefit of the citizens, not what is written in an excel spreadsheet. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113630	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113633	I'm also interested in reality. When we held our summer group meeting, we held it at Hvidovre Hospital, where we also gained insight into the hospital's work. And one of the things we were told was how to get much better at hip surgery. Just a few years ago, you had to be hospitalized for between 10 and 14 days to change your hip. Today it can happen outpatiently, and you can get the first rehabilitation before you are sent home in the afternoon. That's amazing. So, of course, things can be done more efficiently, but it also requires more money to be added. And when the government, in its draft budget, does not even want to allocate money to what can make welfare just keep its nose shut, we are not in zero growth; then we are out in minus growth per year. user, for the individual patient. Therefore it is not true, when the Minister of Finance is out to say in Jutland-Posten, that one will not go to elections on zero growth; for that is what one wants. Because you don't even want to give enough money to keep welfare on your nose.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113730	Well, sir. Rune Lund contradicts herself. After all, he says that things can be done more efficiently and give an example from Hvidovre Hospital it is a fantastic example, one of many cases where you can now do operations with minor interventions to the patient, and that is the most important thing, and where, moreover, the price is much lower. And then he says it takes you to add money. Well, it goes against each other. The point is that the new technology and the new opportunities it offers, among other things. in the field of health and a large number of other areas, helping to ensure that the productivity we have in our public sector has been increasing. And if that productivity increase continues, then it was with the demographic trait, if you care about the mechanism, sort of solved. However, the fact that we can both produce more, be more efficient, and at the same time provide a small amount of additional resources, I think, but sensible, is the combination that I see as the relevant one. But again I want to say that I am not interested in excel spreadsheets, but in what happens at Hvidovre Hospital and elsewhere where high-quality service is provided to citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113830	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113834	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It is probably not surprising to the rapporteur that I would like to focus on the green transition. I recognise that 1 billion has been set aside. kr. in the draft budget. That's 250 million. kr. a year. I don't think that's enough. The alternative does not seem to be enough. I would like to draw attention to an article in Information on 31 August by Peter Birch Sørensen, who is, of course, our climate wise man, who says that the government's green billion over four years does not want other things to be on the table, that there must also be regulations to regulate pollution, that we have to tackle agriculture, transport, etc. I think that is such an article that, after all, must make the government wrinkle its brows and think: have we done well enough? So I would like to ask whether the rapporteur can elaborate on why it has had to devote just one billion. kr. Over four years, when we really have to tackle the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906113947	After all, I would like to sign for the rose, and it can be said that from the point of view of the alternative it is a step in the right direction. I think others will recognize that as well. I think it is a good, fine, great and also realistic ambition to have. We will then also, as the rapporteur will be aware, come up with a climate challenge. After all, we have reached an energy agreement here earlier this season, and the next step is the climate element. As you know, funds are being set aside for this in the Finance Act. To say that we need to get on with the green transition, I think it might just be tighter. In fact, I think that we have been in the process and are in the process of the green transition and have been doing so for many years in Denmark. We have a leading position. We can be proud of that. We can both make money on it, it's good, and the exports are great in this area... but we can also by making the exports help the environment and the climate around the world, where there's actually a huge potential to lift this. So the fact that we both have a business policy that is cultivating this, and at the same time at home I was about to say that we are putting extra coal under it, but that may be a wrong expression in this context... putting on extra turbo with this extra billion kroner, I think it is both ambitious and realistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114055	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114056	There should be no doubt that we do not think it is ambitious enough. But the rapporteur will not be surprised either. I think it is a pity that we now have every chance of really getting into the fight and getting even better. But let me ask you something else. The government says there should be zero emissions by 2050. We know that fossil cars run about 15-20 years on the roads. This means, of course, that the last fossil cars will have to be sold by 2030 if we are to achieve the government's own goal. Therefore, I would really like to ask why it is that the government is not already starting to prepare for the last fossil cars to be sold by 2030 and making sure that the market can adapt to it, that we can buy electric cars and that it pays to buy electric cars. Why does the government not support the sale of electric cars and prepare the market for what it must be prepared for in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114153	Now I have to be careful about making myself smart about the technique. There are people working in the energy sector who are much stronger than I am. However, I can only say that, as Mrs Josephine Fock also mentioned before and endorsed, we nevertheless have an ambition and are also setting aside resources in the area of climate change in order to continue the green transition. This is, of course, a contrast to the party that Mrs Josephine Fock might support as Prime Minister's Party. I have some doubts about that. No, she will not, because she will support her own party. The Social Democrats have said nothing about this area in their brochures. I think it is important that, after all, a proper amount of money can be put off. You can then negotiate how it is to be distributed. But specifically the issue of the electric car market, I will leave it to experts to comment further.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114241	Thank you. And then it's sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114245	When the government stepped in, it had a golden objective to carry out reforms that would bring 55,000-60,000 more to work, and the Danish People's Party has then put a thorough end to this. And that is why I now come with today's great offer to the Left: We in the Radical Left would like to join in inviting new people to Denmark • We could start with 5,000 people who, from day one, have a job, deliver money to the Treasury, and who can therefore help to get the billion that means that we can do something for the country's education, which, unfortunately, the Left will continue to cut year after year, although we know it hits the hardest outside the big cities, in rural areas; although we know that there is something we should do, it is to give our young people a proper start to life. We actually believe that the Left believes that in the heart of the matter, although we do not understand that we continue to make these unconscious savings in the field of education. But we'd like to make this funding, and we'd like to support the government in what the government would like to do if we could make that cross. So why don't we go see each other about it over a cup of coffee?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114355	I would like to thank Mr. Martin Lidegaard. I'm always happy to have coffee with sir. Martin Lidegaard. It is usually cozy and also constructive. And I think that is what this speech is all about, regardless of the nuances and the question of who cut what and who spent money when. We also really want to do this, and it is no secret that we have been working on it and that there will be a move on the part of the government on how we can attract and recruit qualified foreign labour, because that is what we need. I think we share that view. At least that's how I heard Mr. Martin Lidegaard's speech on the attitude of the Radicals towards this. I also hear other parties say the same thing, perhaps with some nuances. We would like to make a move on that, and then we will also negotiate and see how we can achieve it. Because it is absolutely right that if we can have the skilled labour that we need, then there is also an economic potential that we can, of course, negotiate on what is to be used for. And if it is a precondition that we can make that cross, then we will have to include it in the negotiations, if necessary. I will not be opposed to that. Others have to judge that. However, I would just like to say that we are fully involved in looking at it and, as I have said, we are also coming to add time with a proposal to how we can recruit the manpower needed to enable our welfare society to function not only today and tomorrow, but also in several years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114505	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114506	Well, I'm really happy about that, and I'd like to sign for that. And the reason why we are proposing this cross is that both the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats have quite rightly pointed out that there is also a need to do something to get the last available Danes with them. And for us, it's not either-or. Well, we kind of think that these two things are connected. We need to invest more in education to get the last Danes with it, and we need to finance it. We could see that, for example. do by inviting some more skilled labour to Denmark from abroad. And in this way it can be said that the common wish that I also hear there is in the whole of the Parliamentary Chamber, namely the desire to help and give a hand to those companies, hospitals, nursing homes, nurseries, kindergartens that lack labour today, and the desire to help the last Danes to enter the labour market, could be met. These two things could go hand in hand at this intersection, and that's why we're proposing exactly that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114558-2	I therefore agree that, of course, we also have a focus on this, and in particular we need to do something to get them away from many Danes of working age who are outside the labour market into the labour market. This brings both a huge social boost and an economic boost to the community. There is no doubt about that. That is why I am also pleased with the answer, and I almost see this as a vote by the Radicals in favour of the efforts that are being made in the draft budget, among other things. The effort for children, that is, for the first 1,000 days. Because I fully agree with that. That's where you can really move something. It does not, of course, affect the labour market tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but in the coming generation. If the children are well on their way, there is also a much greater requirement for them to do well later in life, not least in schools, so that they also enter the labour market. So I take that as an endorsement from the Radicals to that part of our draft budget. Moreover, I would just like to say that everything that can support the reform measures presented by the government on labour is, of course, very welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114656	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114701	Thank you. I would like to start by saying a little about some of the good things in order, like, to continue the good mood. I think it is a good thing that in the government's draft budget some money has been set aside for the Ankestyrelsen to clean up there, that is, there is a huge backlog. It is also very good that the government focuses on loneliness, and it is also very good that there is increased climate assistance, and then there are probably some other things. So there is clearly some progress, I must say. When the government writes that you spend 0.4 percent. In terms of increased public spending, it is also because you use that figure to measure it. That is also the discussion we have had here today, but I can listen to Mr. Jacob Jensen, that we will not really move forward if we continue to discuss demographic features. So I just want to focus on some impact points, as it also sounded like Mr. Jacob Jensen agreed. Sir. Jacob Jensen himself mentions that it is really, really important that children get a good start to life, because it is important for the rest of their lives. One might then ask whether it is not a problem that we have 4 000 fewer educators than we had before 2008. And so I have to say in relation to the elderly that there are actually 5 billion missing. kr. in the area of the elderly, in relation to demography, not the overall demographic trait, but specifically in the area of the elderly, and that some of what really needs to strengthen us and also ensure the new nurses and educators, etc., is our education system, and 4.5 billion will be saved until 2022. When the Left tours around with this welfare video, I just want to ask about these specific things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906114859	Thank you for the rose, by the way, and that is quite frankly meant. I actually think that's a good way to take it. Of course, that is not everything we agree on, that is why we are different parties, but if we are honored, and that is both ways, then thank you for it. In order to reverse these areas again, you can take a lot of grip in the toolbox to address the challenges that lie ahead. We have been a little involved in recruitment, also in relation to how many employees are then needed, and I do not have a fixed number of how many employees the municipalities have to choose to employ in the care of the elderly or in the kindergartens. It is thus the responsibility and task of the municipalities to assess. It can be different from municipality to municipality. In some places things have been done in one way, and elsewhere they have been done in another way. Children's numbers are rising and falling and so on, so I won't focus on a number again. I would rather focus on what we are getting out of the funds we are now allocating. When Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen asks about the lack of money, was it 5 billion? It sounds wrong to appreciate, but I think you understand what I mean. Because they're not. There are also older people who are getting more healthy, more healthy, yes, they live longer, and that is also positive, but there is a parallel shift in the direction that does not make it because we are getting older, we can just per. the mechanism in the excel spreadsheet equal it to that an extra older is equal to an extra crown. I don't think that's how it works out in real life.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115035	Thank you, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115037	Of course. Sir. Rune Lund also had the example of hip surgery, and there are many things that are made much smarter and much cheaper. There are just new things that come to where people have a legitimate expectation of getting the latest health treatment or treatment, even though it is very, very expensive. But that is the expectation we have, and that is why we also know that we will not save on health, even though there will be a lot of new and smarter treatments. So what's gonna happen is going in the other direction. That is why most people also agree that we need to look at the number of older people who are and recognise it in how we fund our welfare societies. And I think it's a shame that some of these things are running in circles, and that's just why I said that specifically in the area of the elderly here and now there's 5 billion missing. kr. And that's not our number, that is, it's health economists, that's what it's called now, based on the calculations and figures coming from the Ministry of Finance. That is why I would just like to say once again: is it not a question of political priorities when, for example, we are talking about political priorities? Makes tax cuts, as the government has done for 20 billion. kr.? That is the political priority, and then they say: then there are other things we cannot afford. Well, it's a political priority, what you want to finance. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115159	Of course it is. But I'm not buying the last premise. We have been around this for a number of years now, and we can do more about the contradiction between welfare and so that we can lighten some taxes and taxes and make it more attractive to work and invest, which is, of course, the whole prerequisite for our earnings to our common welfare, including to the elderly. This is, of course, one of the prerequisites for us to have been able to allocate more funds, including for the elderly, for the core welfare, for the municipalities in the bourgeois welfare sector. We've been able to do that. That was not the case when another government sat for a few years. We have been able to set aside an extra old-age billion, which, among other things, is what we have been able to do. has helped to ensure that kitchens and thus food could also be made for a thousand older citizens who could not otherwise have had it. It's just to give a few examples of it, and that's what I want to be measured on. We can stand by and say: well, it's got to be 1 billion. kr. or 5 billion. kr. or 10 billion kr. to. But it can be both difficult to relate to, and I do not think it makes much sense to translate it into the real world either. But it makes sense to say: what is it we get out of this, and how can we set up our systems and debureaucratize the Minister of Innovation and come up with an initiative on how can we release lots of hands and thus also provide better core welfare for what we all want? And that is something that citizens can feel, and not just a figure in an excelark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115308	Thank you. Then it's Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115313	Thank you very much. First of all, I think it is very positive that the government with the Left has set aside 42 million. kr. to some new initiatives related to Greenland, among others. to ensure some more knowledge about Greenland and the Faroe Islands in Denmark. When I have been around talking to Greenlandic professionals in Denmark, I am at one point asked whether the Danish Parliament would also do anything if it were 30 per cent. of the girls in a given city in Denmark, e.g. Slagelse, which had experienced a sexual assault. This is the reality that unfortunately is in Greenland. Although we are responsible for the social area, here in the Folketing we have a responsibility for justice. Naalakkersuisut, the Greenland Government, has made a proposal for an attack package, we have made a new child law, where we act more quickly when we know that there has been an attack on children, we are also doing something more to prevent the abuse. But we also really want the police in Greenland to act faster, and that is one of the recommendations that Naala Suisut points to, but it requires some more money. I have been in dialogue with the police in Greenland, and that requires some more money. We have 34 times as much personal crime as you have in Denmark, so I want to hear the government's views on this question. Is it willing to allocate more money to strengthen the justice area in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115439	Thank you for the question. At any rate, it is one of the areas of the whole Kingdom community, both Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, which is of concern to the government, so that there must be security for citizens, that we can be sure that we have a police force that is both efficient, fast, visible and present in cases where it is needed. It is not the kind of surveillance police that should be running around pricking people on their shoulders unless there is particular reason for it, but a police force that is there. Whether it is an indication that we can then find some extra funds for the Greenlandic purpose, I shall not be left out of the platform here. But I would also like to say to the Minister of Finance that there have been a couple of years, and I regret that, but now we can correct where there were some misunderstandings as to who was called for these negotiations. At any rate, I would like to say, if nothing else, that Greenlandic Members must of course also be represented, so that they kick in and those proposals, among others. in the area of justice or other matters, are part of the overall negotiations on the overall financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115538	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115541	Thank you very much. The Self-Government Act states very clearly that we are working towards a more equal cooperation in the Kingdom Community, and one of the points to be made is that the 32 areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland must also be at the same level as in Denmark. This also applies to the area of justice. One of the points made by Naala Suisut was that the police should act within 24 hours. And, of course, it is important to define what is going to happen within these 24 hours, because it is also limited how much can be achieved within 24 hours, but I think it is important to stress that although the government has allocated 40 million. kr. to strengthen the justice area in Greenland, that is not enough. This is one of the examples that we need to do even more in this area if we want to have it at a dignified level and precisely ensure security and security for the citizens of Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115632	Let's make an assessment and talk about it. Again, I'm not gonna be smart about 40 million. kr. is enough, or whether more is needed, or whether you can arrange the police action in Greenland in a different and perhaps more wise way. Someone knows a lot more about that than I do. But I would just like to say that I think this is one of the things that the Greenlandic Member should also take to the Minister for Finance and, therefore, also the considerations that need to be made, whether these things can be arranged, about the 40 million. kr. is exactly the number that is right, or whether you could reprioritize or do anything else to hit this very, very important area. I fully agree that the high level we are talking about is totally unacceptable. It is unworthy and something needs to be done about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115708	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115714	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for taking us through the adventures. I think the rapporteur may have downgraded the Clumshans a little bit and do not really know what kind of guy he was. He was just someone who could figure it out. He was sustainable and green in the red way. He took the princess and half the kingdom, and when the king was dead, he took the whole damn country. I think Clumshans was a socialist. Well, those were the government's 2025 plans that I wanted to tell you about. You've been on quite an adventure, you might say. Three 2025 plans have been made by the government. First came the plan of healing, and then came the growth and prosperity of 2025. Then there was ragnarok in the blue block last year when the proposal for a tax reform was presented and the 2025 plan was updated for the third time. However, the fact is that tax cuts, higher retirement age and SU reductions have not really come about because there was a majority against it. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: what will be included in the next elections as government policy when things are not really going to happen anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115826	I want to start with Clumsy. I think he was a Leftman because he was someone who took the initiative. He did not allow himself to be oppressed by the bureaucrats. He made an independent effort and came through with his desire and his dream. So I think he was. Having said that, I think it might be to tighten it up somewhat to say that none of what is going to happen anyway. If I can sort of look down over the government programme both for this period and for previous periods when we have had government responsibility, then I can put my feet on if not everything, then at least large parts of the government programme. This is true on the tax side, on the tax side, on the investment side, and this is also true, and this is perhaps the essence of this discussion, the efforts in the field of core welfare, which we have prioritized up to the last elections and which we will again give priority to in the forthcoming elections, whenever it comes. So to say that it is not going to happen, I think perhaps speak for itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115917	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906115919	The fact is that there is a majority against, so I do not know how the government will really get through with these things that I have mentioned when the thing is against it. In the social democracy, we will abolish the re-priority contribution. That's how they get 2%. savings are going to hit very hard in our educational institutions. In the countryside there are many high schools that are very crowded. They're cramped because they have to save 2%. Year after year. They have a student drop, and they have a taximeter system that may not be quite fair. What will the rapporteur say to those high schools? Would you say: Mind your own business for the next 3 years now that we have just extended the savings from 2021 to 2022? Or what's gonna happen to these high schools? Do they end up like the wife in the mud ditch that Grimm tells us about, or is there any help coming within three years? Because this is gonna shut down institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906120008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906120010	But there too I think it is too bad that you do not have a reply yourself. I am well aware that, during the night, better thoughts have come to mind, because on Tuesday, it could be said that the Social Democrats will in fact continue with the re-prioritisation contribution. Suddenly you are pressured by different circumstances to close a flank, and suddenly you mean exactly the opposite. That makes me uncomfortable, but I also think it makes the institutions insecure that they do not know what they have to count on. I think that is actually the most important thing, namely that they know what they are, what they are looking for, what they are looking for, and when they can be said to do something else, that they know when the re-prioritisation contribution will end and what else will happen with that money. They know that. However, one day you come and say that the re-prioritisation contribution must now be maintained, and then the next day, funny enough in the morning of the first reading of the financial bill, says the exact opposite, I do not think it is a fair way of doing so. God knows what they say tomorrow... I'll think some people are thinking. But, of course, we have different approaches, including: in the field of vocational education and training. As I have mentioned in an answer earlier, we are making a move there. We have also engaged in tripartite negotiations, which, in turn, are important, in other words, ensuring that the people who are going to have to do so in the end also have something to do with work placements and other things to do. This is the kind of action that I think is far more important than rethinking the excel spreadsheet.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906120120	Thank you, and then we've gotten to where we're gonna take a little lunch break. The first person on the floor of the Left rapporteur when we start up after lunch is Mr. Nick Hækkerup, the Social Democratic Party, and after that, it's Mr. Hækkerup. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. This means that the sitting is suspended. We'll start up again at 2:00 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130049	The sitting is resumed. We are at first reading of the draft budget, and it is the rapporteur of the Left who is on the floor. We move on in the line of questions, and the next one in the line of questions is Mr. Nick Hækkerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130111	Thank you. I'm not gonna make a long speech. It is a relatively simple question, namely whether the rapporteur can confirm that with the draft budget put forward by the government and with economic policy, the number of public employees will drop by 10,000 by 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130139-2	No, I can't confirm that. I think sir... Nick Hækkerup refers to a committee response, and if you read all that committee answer, you can read at the bottom of it that the assessment can also go the other way. I think the number is +20,000. It depends on the calculation and assessment methods that you put into it. So I don't think that number can stand up to believers. That depends on many other factors, and that is also clear from the answer, which I am quite sure Mr. Nick Hækkerup refers to in his question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130205	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130207	Actually, that wasn't where I had it. I'm not familiar with that answer. I have simply taken it from the draft budget that has been put forward. It is true that when the Minister for Finance makes his proposal, it is based on some assumptions. And if the figures contained in the government's draft Finance Bill are to fit, one of the calculation assumptions is simply that from 2018 until 2025 the number of public employees will decrease by 10,000. In fact, I find it thought-provoking that the rapporteur is not aware of this, because it puts the great campaign there about how much welfare we can get in relief if we are not aware that we have to cut 10 000 public employees first.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130257-2	Sir. Nick Hækkerup must have good experience both from his time as mayor and also from his time in government firing people in the public sector. I have to assume that, because that was at least what happened when the Social Democracy was in government. There were fewer public employees in the municipalities and elsewhere. Under this government, more have come. After all, it is not an end in itself to have a certain number of public employees. I would like to emphasise this point. They are good and they work well with things, but we also need to help them get the most professional skills out of the hands and heads that they have. That is why it is not in itself a task to have x thousand more or less. This is again about, as I said earlier in the debate, what we get out of it and what quality we get in the service that we have to provide to citizens. It can happen in many ways. It can happen with warm hands, but it can also happen with aids and in other ways. So the figure itself is not decisive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130347	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130349	Thank you. You could continue with the Hans Christian Andersen analogs. An obvious analogy was perhaps the story of the ugly duckling, who comes from outside and looks a little different and is treated so hard by the big and strong in the duckyard. But we can think about it for a while. Let's get to the Finance Act. After all, the Left is proposing to continue the cuts in our education which have been going over the past year and which have already had severe consequences, i.e. the dismissal of many high school teachers, especially in our outskirts. And it was nicely spun by the Left that you liked to get some media to jump on the story that you now dropped the cuts. The reality was that, in a way, they continued with another budget year. The reality is that next year, next year and next year will continue to go out and cut our education. On the other hand, we can say today that a united opposition, now also with the Social Democratic Party, says very clearly that we will have the majority, and that will be the end of it. So can the rapporteur accept quite factually that the level of ambition for our education is only greater in the opposition than in the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130506	Quite factually: No, I cannot accept that. For the opposition has an unbelievable ability to focus on money and numbers, I must admit. I know that the Social Democrats took a different view a few days ago on this issue, and now you have a new attitude. You've been pressured by circumstances. One can only guess which other political areas of the remainder of the opposition might be pressured to change their attitude after elections, if necessary. We can guess. But one can clearly focus on what the budgetary framework looks like and completely forget what is in the framework, what structures it is, what opportunities it is, what regulatory framework we make available to vocational schools and others. That's why we, among other things. is proposing a vocational school reform in order to strengthen that area. So I can't acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130558	I think it's funny, you know, this whole thing about the fact that money doesn't matter or that it's all sorts of other things that matter. Funny enough, this is not the position of the Left in terms of defence spending in terms of helping business in terms of tax relief for business. Money all of a sudden means something. So let's be honest. Money matters. My daughter just started a youth education. If it is the Left that continues after a forthcoming election, she will see that year after year she will be cut at her high school. If the opposition wins the next election, she will see that it does not happen. Well, it's very simple. They will have less money to organise good teaching, to hire the right teachers and to be able to do the right course, to buy the aids that are needed. They want more money for the opposition than for the Left. Can't we just have a basic realization of that fact?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130644	No, we can't, sir. Pelle Dragsted. Because I do not know what the Social Democratic Party means tomorrow, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted couldn't know that they mean what they're doing today, because they meant something else two days ago. That's one. The second is that we, among other things. focus on these types of education, i.e. vocational schools, which I have mentioned, in order to create a better framework for them. The third point is that, with the financial bill, we are also setting aside money for education, a great deal of money, 600 million. kr., to be precise. It is to follow up on what, among other things. The Board of Disruptions is working with. It must ensure coherence and greater efficiency in the areas of education and training. So no, sir. Pelle Dragsted, our ambition goes far beyond just discussing money. Yes, money is something, but that is definitely not everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130728	Thank you. And then it's sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130729	Thank you, President. Sir. Jacob Jensen sounds as if the blood has come up a little bit, and he is evidently worried about what the Social Democrats think tomorrow. I would just like to know what the Left thinks today. And I would like to start with a factual question, because it is perhaps easier to answer for the Left than to answer for what the Left's policy is after the next elections; at least it seems quite unclear what it really is that you are going to be elected on. Sir. Jacob Jensen himself pointed out that the discussion about the demographic move is about a mechanical projection. But if we assume that the mechanical projection is, of course, 0.65%, which the Ministry of Finance has calculated, sir. So Jacob Jensen confirms that, within the scope available up to 2025, there is really room for people to live up to the demographic trend over the years? And now we're not talking politics, we're just talking. Can it be done within the scope of the room available to respond to the demographic trend?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130849	I would like to start by saying that it is just strong enough to hear a Social Democrat stand and scrub us not to say down to the last comma what we think in one year's time when you cannot even say what you meant two days ago. Well, maybe we should put those proportions in place. As far as demography is concerned, we have put forward this draft budget on the basis of the assessment that we have and which we believe is also the responsible part of the economy: what is the room for? Fortunately, there is room for greater public growth, because, among other things, we are. has taken some initiatives in the past against which the Social Democratic Party was opposed: the withdrawal reform and other reforms that have helped to provide money. But I would also just like to remind you that when we took over the government in 2015, we took over an economy that had been brought right to the edge of the permissible with a deficit of 0.5%. of gross domestic product. And, of course, we have spent a few years correcting that, among other things. with a re-prioritisation contribution and other. But that is just to say: we have now taken the trouble to get to where we can actually increase public spending, but at a level where we actually believe that it is responsible for the future, that is, towards the next few years too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130958	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906130959	When the Left took over the government power, it was assumed that Danish economy was ill until Denmark's Statistics made a change in their inventory method. And then it actually turned out that the Danish economy was feeling considerably better. That's what it's gonna be. I can almost sense sir. Jacob Jensen, that he does not want to admit that there is actually room for the room available up to 2025 to dispose of. You don't want to say that, and I understand. The government's economic policy is an average increase in public growth of 0.3%. That's why I just have one question. If there is then that more is available, if you really wanted it, then the Left must have some other priorities. So what is it that the Left wants to prioritise within the scope when it is not a priority to live up to the demographic trait of public growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906131054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906131055	Well, I was actually hoping that sir... Benny Engelbrecht had read our financial bill so that we could have a reasonably qualified debate today. But that's what I hear, sir. Apparently, Benny Engelbrecht hasn't bothered. Because if he had done so, he would know what the government has played out with, both in relation to children, in relation to health, psychiatry, education, climate and the environment and all the other areas that we prioritise. But that is in stark contradiction with what Mr. Benny Engelbrecht himself represents, namely, a brochure that came into the shelter of the night, where it says that more people or was it all to be well, and that a good time must be made better for all, apparently also for the very richest. Then I have to assume that we will continue with top tax concessions, as we did last time we were in government. I mean, I think the discussion is at quite a different level than it should be. You should have read the government proposal. We would then also know what our priorities will be in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906131146	Thank you. Then the timeframe has passed, and we thank the rapporteur of the Left and go further in the rapporteur's line. And that is for Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906131201	Thank you. After all, it is now time to act if we are to avert the threat of climate change. We have only a few years to act if we want to avoid the temperature rise of 2 degrees, which will bring the climate completely out of control and cause extreme weather conditions, that the seas are rising as the ice on the poles melts, that we want to see the extinction of thousands of species and see millions of climate refugees. Combating climate change should be an absolute priority for any responsible government. In that case, we must note that we do not have a responsible government. A sum of 250 million will be set aside. kr. a year to climate and nature, while at the same time the government will facilitate corporate taxes for 400 million. kr. or use approx. 1 billion kr. in 2019 on the new fighter planes. The green transformation of our entire society is a massive challenge, and if the government took the task seriously, it would post billions in the green transition. The climate crisis must be resolved through joint, solidarity-based action, and this is more urgent than ever. And with its financial bill, it is clear that the government has not grasped the seriousness at all. And the next election has to be a climate choice. It's not so clear to the government, but it's obvious to all of us. Because this is the time to act. Climate action in our transport and agriculture is a huge problem and a challenge that the government has so far made every effort to ignore and undermine. That is why it has to be said that it is the lice that only 200 million will be set aside. kr. overall to climate and environment. It is also crystal clear that the government's so-called green ambitions have been reduced to a bad PR stunt. kr. extra a year for 4 years; something that does not reach anywhere when we know what crisis Danish nature is in. In addition to the fatal lack of initiatives in the area of climate change, this is also a draft Finance Act which will starve welfare. The government has been trying to spin away with the fact that this bill of finance is supposed to be handing out mild gifts to welfare. The truth is, however, that expenditure cannot keep up with developments where there are more elderly people, more children, the price of medicines is rising and the tasks are increasing. If this bill becomes a reality, it will mean even more stress for the nurses. This will mean even less time for the home helper of the elderly citizen in our society, and it will mean even less time for the individual child in kindergarten. Frankly, I find it shameful of the many people who are working hard every day to care for our children, our elderly and our sick welfare heroes. Every year they have to go further in the liter because the money does not follow developments and the starvation continues with this financial law. It is not at all good enough for the government to continue to cut education, education and culture by 800 million. kr. per year up to 2022. Several educational institutions are now so pressured that they risk going bankrupt long before we reach 2022 if the government is allowed to continue their savings. It would be a disaster. Educational institutions, students and teachers are today hard pressed by the annual savings they have been subject to ever since 2016. There are far too few lessons in many programmes, there is not enough money for books, teachers are fired. It's the wrong way. We must invest in programmes of the highest quality for the benefit of both students and teachers and for the benefit of Denmark. Too many people also get sick and worn out by the work, and it gets worse every year. Nevertheless, the government chooses to save on the working environment once again. The government will spend 40 million. kr. less on the working environment, save 25 employees in the Factory Inspectorate, and it shuts down a number of preventive interventions. Poor working environment wears thousands of people up every year. Every year there are approx. 40,000 accidents at work. There are approx. 20,000 occupational diseases, that is, things that make you sick over a long period of time. It can be damaged backs or mental illnesses, and it costs society huge human costs each year, but also huge financial costs. According to the government's own figures, it costs society and employers a total of 80 billion. kr., so it is expensive both human and financial. But quality of life cannot be made up of money, pain cannot be made up of money. It cannot do so for the blacksmith, carpenter or teacher, whose work has made you a cripple or perhaps severely ill. And that is why it is absolutely crazy not to focus on preventive work and on a labour inspectorate that can both advise and control. In Enhedslisten, in April of this year we have prepared what we call our 100-day schedule... we call it 100 days with Enhedslisten. It is an indication of what the first 100 days of Enhedslisten's policy would look like if we were given power as we have observed. There are as many as 100 concrete measures. They are all examples of how much more sustainable, democratic, fair Denmark could become, things are achievable, money fits, and we could start tomorrow if there was the right political majority. The 100-day plan shows what we were going to do, and that is why the 100-day plan is also an indication of what Enhedslisten thinks a Finance Act should look like if it was we who could decide. Because politics is about choices, and right now Denmark is governed by a policy that takes care of very few people at the expense of the community. Our nature gasps, welfare lags, and taxes are lowered, including for billionaire heirs. Changing prime ministers have called the course necessary. But no policy is necessary, or no policy is unchangeable for that matter because we have a choice. We can change society and we can give society a direction where we give each other the best conditions for living healthy, rich and sustainable lives; where we ask the richest to pay a fairer share to the community, because then there is advice. And we hope that our plan 100 days with Enhedslisten can restore the belief that politics can make a difference; that it doesn't just matter who is in power; that it doesn't necessarily have to be such that no matter who is in power, right-wing reduction policy is being pursued. Our plan includes, among other things: introducing a new Climate Act with binding targets for reducing CO2 emissions cheaper public transport. The plan also contains several colleagues for welfare heroes, because nurses are too busy today; there are too many children per year. Pedagogy in kindergarten; there is too little time for our older fellow citizens when home help comes to visit. The heroes of welfare are stressful, they are too busy, doing their utmost to make everything work together, and they are also hurting those citizens who need help. We owe it to our elders, who have worked a long life, that they also have a dignified old age. All children must have a good start in life with time to care and play. And there must be optimal conditions in the health care system so that everyone gets the right treatment and gets well as soon as possible. We will also ensure security in the labour market, in old age and in disease. There is no one in our country and that is how it is today that should be afraid of getting sick; no one should be afraid of getting old; and no one should be afraid of losing their jobs. We want to ensure that security, among other things. by abolishing the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule, the integration allowance, and we will restore the erosion of the value of transfer income. We will introduce the right to sickness benefit as long as you are ill and we will ensure the possibility of early withdrawal from the labour market at the rate of benefit for the hours you can no longer work. We will also make Denmark a humanitarian superpower. We will gradually increase foreign aid to 1%. of bni, we will increase the contribution to the UN and UN peacekeeping missions, and we will cancel the purchase of new expensive fighter planes for approx. 1 billion kr. The play. We will also hire extra employees in tax control because we in Denmark simply cannot afford not to. Our society, the common fund, is missing billions and billions of dollars each year that should have been in the box long ago. •100 days with Enhedslisten • costs for just under 50 billion. kr., and it has revenue for almost 60 billion. kr., so it's not just fully funded, it's actually overfunded, and it doesn't just include spending on increased public spending. A considerable proportion of the money we are going to allocate will be used to reduce taxes and taxes which will benefit the general public. Among other things: We want to reduce the tax for the people who earn the least in our society and a small user fee for example. Public transport will also benefit some people, especially those with the smallest incomes, while we find the money for our plan at the top of society, those who have received tax rebates over the past many years. The proposals together show that a new course is possible if only a sufficient number of people decide to do so, but that obviously requires a different policy, a different government, and that requires a different financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906132253	Thank you. Then we are ready to start the questioning round, and the first questioner is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906132300	First of all, I have to agree with Mr. Rune Lund in that the climate is a key point and, as I have also mentioned in my speech, it is also a priority. Man-made global warming is a great challenge, and precisely today, when we have moved to the Landstingshall temporarily, it reminds us that local warming is also something that hits us right here. So if anyone thinks there's sweat on the pans in here, it's not just because of the questions being asked, it's because it's hot in the room. I would like to ask a question about the close well-being that I mentioned in my Finance Act speech. As stated in the Social Democratic Finance Act, we have a focus on the issue of emergency places, where there are currently user charges for patients who have been discharged from the hospital but who are not ready to be in their own home and therefore for a period, shorter or longer, are placed in such an emergency place where they get normal good care and some sensible diet. They'll pay for that broom. It can be relatively much money, and especially for a pensioner it is a lot of money. I just want to hear how Enhedslisten views the Social Democratic proposal to remove the self-payment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906132426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906132427	We think that is a very good proposal. We ourselves have also been out to say that it is a user payment that we want abolished. After all, we do not want user charges in our health system. In general, we do not want user charges. We want jointly funded welfare, which provides equal and free access to the welfare of all citizens of our societies. That is a very good proposal. It is also a good thing that the social democracy comes into play with a concrete policy. Ever since the 2015 elections, we have been pushing for a concrete policy to be put forward by the Social Democrats, so that, like the drawing up of an alternative majority, if there is a new majority after a forthcoming election, then we could look like a new majority, and I still think that we lack more concrete policy on the part of the Social Democrats. If I were to mention something where I think something really is missing, that is one of the things I mentioned in my questions to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Benny Engelbrecht, namely that the Social Democracy will only commit itself to the minimum of giving welfare money corresponding to the demographic trait. After all, the demographic trait is just what it takes to ensure that welfare stands still, and if the rest of society develops, we will see the public sector fall behind, and I think that would be a problem. Then we're still missing some bigger ambitions from S.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906132544	Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906132545	I can then supplement it, because we had the discussion just before where Mr. Jacob Jensen found it difficult to answer whether there is actually money to cover the demographic move. That's where I can tell. The challenge is that it does not really look as if there is a great deal of money in addition. That is why it is clear that we must first of all ensure that what is needed is supported. Having said that, it is just to follow up my question on emergency places. It is easy enough to say to the municipalities that they are not allowed to charge money, but there is a reason for them to collect the money, and that is that they must have things together. That is why we cannot do this here without taking money to the municipalities, because otherwise it will only be less seats or fewer seats. So is Enhedslisten also prepared that if you are to solve the challenge, there will have to follow money to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906132642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906132643	Yes, and if you look at our 100-day plan, you will see that we are adding a billion euro to the municipalities, where there will be plenty of room for the 100 million. kr., as the Social Democratic Party suggests here. After all, it is obvious and obvious to everyone that, when there has been a decrease in the number of civil servants since the bourgeois government came into existence in 2015 and until now, and when the bourgeois government has not even provided enough money to cover the demographic trait, which is the very least that needs to be done in order for welfare to keep its nose open, there is a lack of money for welfare in the municipalities. This is not the same as not doing things more effectively. After all, we also agree in the opposition that we must, of course, spend the money as efficiently as possible. But more money is needed. And there, in the debate so far, we have seen the bourgeois government and the bourgeois representatives speak out completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906132733	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906132735	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. It is clear that there are several areas where we can agree with Enhedslisten, but when we get to the economics, it will probably start to separate us. I'm listening to what's being said, and it's going to be finished with the "and it sounds really good that a strong Enhedslisten and a new government are needed, and that the opposition must have power back, because then it's going to flow with gold in the streets, and then the money comes. But you can think back like that. Something is also being said about how that money is going to come. It's taxing harder. Businesses have to pay more. There's got to be fewer rich people, because then society gets richer. It's a tax-financed society. When you think back then, Enhedslisten was a support party, how was it that the money was obtained back then? It was in the process of providing corporate tax relief and top tax incentives. What makes Enhedslisten now say that next time, if there is a new government, it will be very good and then it will be something quite different from what we have seen? The way you have done it, when you have power in the Social Democratic Party, will be quite different next time. And why is it that Enhedslisten, with the approach Enhedslisten has to the economy, believes that Social Democracy will move so significantly in a different direction compared to the path Enhedslisten will go?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906132841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906132843	I can say that we are not deluding ourselves at all on what we can get the Social Democratic Party to do. We had some very unfortunate years in the Thorning-Corydon period, which has also resulted in some discussions with us in the Enhedslisten on how to make sure that there is a new majority in power, regardless of who is Prime Minister, we should not again see a development where inequality is increasing or where primary school teachers are being shrouded in a primary school reform, or where parts of DONG are being sold to financial speculators in Goldman Sachs, or where discounts are being given on top tax which is being taken from transfer income. That is not the policy we want to pursue. But we can say what we're going to vote on. And we hope that there will be enough voters who will vote on the Enhedslisten and on parties that are basically behind the policy that Enhedslisten stands for, so that we can put our ideas and political visions through.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906132937	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906132939	I am actually pleased with an honest answer, by the way. What is being said here is interesting. It is just because the end of the rapporteur's speech was that something new must now happen in Denmark and that the opposition is ready to take the baton. And that is quite right, because it was these things that sort of happened when Enhedslisten was the support party for the former Social Democratic led government with Helle Thorning-Schmidt in the lead. It was these things that happened. It is quite true that when tax cuts were made, it was taken from transfer income, which then was not indexed forward; i.e. the tax agreement of 2012. So what is being said here from now on is not an expression of the fact that it is expected to happen. It is only an expression of where Enhedslisten stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133021	It is correctly understood that we do not expect anyone to come and give us anything. We are part of a political struggle in here and we are here to push boundaries and to put the political pressure that is needed to bring about change. No one comes and gives anything to anyone in this Parliament, we all know that. In relation to the deterioration that was achieved, I would say that it was not with the votes of the Enhedslisten. It was with the bourgeois voices, also partly with the votes of the Danish People's Party. We can do a lot in the Enhedslisten, but we do not have 90 seats in the Folketing, and we cannot always prevent the Social Democracy from making accidents if they want to lower the top tax with the bourgeois.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133102	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133105	I could understand that, sir. Rune Lund wanted a new government, but the question is just which one. After all, there are many possibilities on the red wing for who should lead one of these, but I understand that it is Mrs Pernille Skipper who is the first choice. Does that mean that we want to take the baton ourselves, and all the honour and respect for it, and the lack of concrete policy on the part of the largest opposition party? If you ask the Socialists what tax concessions they have against, you will roll back, you will not get an answer. And the same is true if you ask what priorities you want to make in the area of climate change, and you can't read it in this booklet that you've got your hand stuck over the night. There, however, we have, with all due respect, and we can then agree or disagree with that, some specific proposals which can then be discussed. But what I really wanted to ask is a little in the wake of Mr. René Christensen's question: when we talk so much about priorities and parliamentary support or not, Mr. Rune Lund then didn't confirm that the last time tax relief, i.e. top tax relief and corporate tax relief, was it under a S-led government supported by Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133219	It is the 2012 reform that we are talking about, which was carried out with the support of, among others. Mr. Jacob Jensen's own party. I do not think anyone was in doubt about what Enhedslisten thought about that reform. I remember some strong quotes from our then political rapporteur, where she spoke very freely from the liver about the agreement on direct television. What one should just bear in mind is that that policy was not implemented with the support of the Enhedslisten. The Enhedslisten struggled with beaks and claws for improvements, and we also got rid of many deteriorations, and we were also in the Finance Act where there were improvements, but at any time to be able to expect from Enhedslisten that we can prevent the Social Democracy from making accidents with others. Mr. Jacob Jensen's own party, the Left, about lowering the top tax, we can't issue any guarantee of • unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133313	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133315	It is certainly a guarantee that you can issue if you want to be a parliamentary basis for a government. You want to lead it yourself, but if that is not possible, I understand that the second best thing is a social democratic government, and then you can just as a parliamentary basis issue the guarantee that you will not support such a government if it is in favour of making top tax concessions again. So I'm happy for the confirmation from sir. Rune Lund's side that the last time corporate tax relief and top tax reliefs were made in this country, which we thought was a fine idea, because there was scope and room for it, why we supported it and agreed to that agreement, was by a government like Mr. Rune Lund supported, and at that time he could have chosen to pull the plug on such a government. That's why Mr. As a parliamentary basis, Rune Lund says that I now issue that guarantee from the platform here today: it will not happen again that such a government will be supported by the Enhedslisten. Can I get that guarantee?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133407	Sir. Jacob Jensen can be given the guarantee that we think the voters should speak in the next parliamentary elections. There is far too much about pre-discounting the result of the elections or political commentators deciding what the majority should look like after a forthcoming election. Now let's let the voters decide. We say that if there is enough voting on the Enhedslisten, and if there is enough voting on the SF and the Alternative, which we consider to be our closest ally, then it offers some other opportunities in politics than if the three parties combined, for example. Don't get a good choice. So we are going after the Prime Minister's post, of course we are, and I think all parties, with respect for themselves, must do so. After all, no party has been set up in order to make the front figures of other parties prime minister. But if it cannot be ourselves, we are going after the government where we can have the most influence possible, and there I can at least say that it is clearly not with the current Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133501	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133503	Thank you. Now I find myself in the slightly odd situation that I have to defend the policy of Social Democracy and SF's policy from 2012. It's like mostly to get a picture of how you really think in Enhedslisten. After all, the tax reform meant that ordinary employees no longer had to pay top tax: teachers, nurses, metal workers and others paid top tax and were no longer required to pay it. When they paid top tax, they had a compound marginal tax of 66 per cent, i.e. in tax on income plus taxes, the two thirds delivered two thirds! Was that fair? It is all very well to have different political priorities. That, of course, is what politics is all about. But even in the field of taxation there must be reasonable considerations in the Enhedslisten. Was it reasonable that metal workers and nurses should deliver two thirds of what they earned to the state and should not be allowed to keep any more to themselves? Is it Enhedslisten's perception of what is reasonable for ordinary people?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133626	I think, sir. Joachim B. Olsen mispresents the figures as if you had to pay 66 per cent of your entire income. It kind of sounded like that, but it wasn't like that. I just want to say that it tells all about the 2012 tax reform that it is the Liberal Alliance that has to stand and defend the 2012 tax reform that S, SF and RV did. Come on! The most inequality-building reform of all, without exception, made under the former S-led government, was precisely the 2012 tax reform, where money was given to those who had the most in our society... who have the least... It is then inequality-creating policy in its most pure form, and it comes as no surprise to me that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen loves politics like that. It was just a very, very great surprise to us in the Enhedslisten that it was also a tax policy which at that time was a policy pursued by a social democratic government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133730	Thank you. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133732	Yes, it is true that it increased economic inequality here and now a little bit to implement those measures. It has also helped create a room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy, increasing the social cake, not as much as the reforms that were made before Helle Thorning-Schmidt came to · but it was an isolated, good contribution. The change in the top tax limit alone increased employment by 6,000. Overall, this meant an increase in employment of 6 000. But I just did not get an answer to what I was asking: is it reasonable for metal workers, school teachers, people with basic wage incomes to hand over two thirds of their marginal income and thus about half of their total income to the state? Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133829	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133830	It was very few thousand crowns, as the groups, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen highlights here, actually paid in kroner and ear in top tax. Those who really scored the money on that reform were the ones with the very highest incomes. In relation to the 2012 reform, I would say that not only was it deeply problematic and disastrous, because it created inequality, it was also deeply economically irresponsible, because the accounting machine of the Treasury was counting on these dynamic effects. It was thought that if we now reduced the conditions for the unemployed, while at the same time making tax rebates for those who made the most money, there would be a great deal more money in the economic space. The problem is just as we have documented in our report that it is not true. It is based on a very thin basis and there is no evidence and evidence and scientific evidence to support it. The problem, then, is that when you think there is room for manoeuvre and it turns out not to be there in the future, the money is gone and who will pay? If it is, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, who is going to decide, then we know who has to pay: again, the poor, the sick, the unemployed will pay the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133934	Thank you. Then I'm out of questions now. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? Then we say thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906133955	Thank you for that, President. In 1982 5 years before the Storebælt fixed link was adopted the Landsforeningen v Storebæltsbroen was founded. In addition to individuals, it was also supported by several trade unions, Radical Youth and quite a few members of the Socialist People's Party. The concerns were many, and one doubted that the bridge would really be a gain for Denmark. One was concerned about the environment and worried that the Danes would lose their psychic charging place when they were no longer to enjoy ferry coffee. And then the ferry towns were especially afraid of losing jobs. Today, all the concerns have been put to shame. Mobility has been lifted, productivity has increased, jobs have been created and coffee can be consumed in the car today. Since the opening in 1998, traffic on the bridge has multiplied fivefold and the number of vehicles is increasing year by year. It is a pronounced success. Then why am I mentioning this? This is because this financial law may well be the first small step towards the construction of an Kattegat bridge. The Minister of Transport put an Kattegat connection on the agenda earlier this year, and now 60 million have been set aside in the Finance Act. kr. for a feasibility study. Although popular opposition today does not seem to be as massive as it was then, a number of parties are in favour of the plans, and we accept that, but I hope that the government will get the majority to go ahead with the feasibility study, because there are many obvious advantages of a user-funded Kattegat bridge. We are dealing with a connection that can shorten travel time from Copenhagen to East Jutland and North Jutland and from East Jutland and North Jutland to Copenhagen by 1 hour to 11⁄2 hour. An Kattegat bridge will do more to strengthen cohesion in Denmark than any other initiative. An Kattegat bridge will tie the country closer together. This is also the case with the financial bill, for the entire Danish economy must be linked, and this bears the government's mark. Because even if things are going well for the Danish economy, there are also danger signals. There is a shortage of labour and recently there has also been a faster increase in wages, and this underlines the importance of a cautious and responsible fiscal policy. We must not repeat the sins of the past by allowing public spending to increase so much that it jeopardises the recovery. In the financial bill, the government is putting up a growth rate of 0.4 per cent, which is entirely in line with the government's basis. The structural deficit will be reduced in 2019 if no more money is spent than the government is proposing. Thus, the Finance Act will withdraw some activity from the economy and it is responsible in the current economic situation. We have noted in LA that, at present and as usual, when there is a debate on finance, there is fierce competition over which party will spend most of the taxpayers' money. However, the same majority in the Folketing does not want to carry out reforms that will make Denmark and the Danes richer. However, there should be a majority in favour of this regardless of where the political spectrum is located. A welfare society is characterised by three parameters. The first is equal opportunities and a fairly equal distribution of income. We must say that we deliver in abundance in Denmark. There is an extremely high degree of redistribution in Denmark, and there is equal and free access to health and education. We are one of those countries with the greatest degree of economic equality. The redistribution is so massive that for many Danes both at the bottom and at the top of the income scale it does not pay to make an extra effort. One percent of the population with the highest incomes pays 10%. of all taxes and charges. The 20%. The wealthiest pays almost half of all taxes and charges. On the other hand, they pay 20%. with the lowest incomes only 4.5%. of all taxes and charges. So the redistribution is massive. The second parameter is a well-developed public sector and a social safety net. We have a safety net so finely masked that it is almost a sail and we have one of the largest public sectors in the world. The third parameter is a high level of prosperity. Here, on the other hand, we are challenged. Denmark is a prosperous country, yes. We are because we have one of the freest and most open market economies in the world. We have good institutions, well-protected private property rights and a relative market conform business regulation. We are not just a socialist society. But our ability to create further economic prosperity is challenged. Economic growth is low. Even in a situation of high economic growth and of historically high employment, economic growth is barely 2%. We need reforms that can lay the foundations for a greater degree of economic progress than the one we have in store for. Why is this even important? Yes, it is not just about better consumption opportunities in both the public and private sectors. It is also about political stability. A social model which is unable to raise the standard of living of the population noticeably over time loses much of the population sooner or later. That is why we must continue along the path of reform, and hopefully we will also see parties other than the Liberal Alliance and the other governing parties. It is precisely when things are going well that we need to make the reforms that ensure the foundations for future prosperity. Lack of labour is a real problem for our economy right now. One of the ways to increase employment and prosperity is to make it easier for skilled foreigners to get to Denmark and work. The labour market is today global, and we need to be smart enough to get something good out of it. The government will come up with another proposal. That is a good thing, but of course it requires a majority in the Folketing if it is to be achieved. Having said that, in addition to the cautious financial policy, there are several excellent initiatives in the financial law exercise. There are, for example: In addition, the Commission has decided to initiate proceedings under Article 93 (2) of the EC Treaty in respect of aid granted by the Federal Republic of Germany in the form of loans for the purpose of financing investment projects in the form of loans for In LA, we would have liked that amount to be greater. I would lie if I claimed otherwise, but this government has actually managed to get through with a great deal of tax relief. Overall, taxes and charges will be eased for citizens and businesses with just over 23 billion. kr. Towards 2025. That's good. Personal freedom is in many ways great in Denmark, but economic freedom is small. State and municipality decide over an excessive proportion of the economy, but since the change of government we have moved in the right direction. The tax burden is falling and, according to Eurostat, we no longer have the world's highest tax burden. Unlike in the 00s, the public economy accounts for an increasingly smaller proportion of the total economy. The draft Finance Act is taking further steps in the right direction by, among other things: to reduce the tax on electric heating for holiday homes owners. This will lead to an equality between electric summerhouses and all-year-old houses. The government wants to abolish the waste charge, which is a great trouble for the companies and expensive and heavy to manage for the municipalities, and we in LA are very pleased about that. The fee was introduced in 2010 and it has been a source of frustration for many self-employed people who do not produce any waste at all, but have had to pay a fee anyway. I very much hope that there can be a majority in favour of abolishing it now. The government is proposing to reduce more charges on border sensitive goods. Daily goods are significantly more expensive in Denmark than in the rest of the EU. This is due, among other things, to: high excise duties. The government is also planning to raise the maximum amount of money that can be made next to its SU without it being offset. If it were to be LA, that limit would have to be completely removed, but here we are taking another step in the right direction, if there can be a majority in favour of it. It does not make sense for students to be punished for making extra efforts in the labour market alongside their education. This is a responsible and sensible financial act, in which the increase in public spending is kept to a sound level, and at the same time it is a visionary financial law in which we can take the first small steps towards achieving the Kattegat link. Both are worth rejoicing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906134825	Thank you. We start with the series of questions, and the first is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. Here you go. You're supposed to go over to the desk right here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906134851	Thank you. You are quite used to the Assembly Hall, so you have to get used to the Landstingshall. It's actually a pretty simple question. For now, over the last few days, we have read such headlines as gift books and gift books, and what we have there, and now you never have to take at face value, what journalists write about it, and what it says on the front page of the Ekstra Bladet, you don't always have to take at face value, but I have to ask the rapporteur something. Because when the rapporteur says that this financial law is continuing in the right direction, that is to say that the public sector is shrinking, then I am in complete agreement with the rapporteur's characterism: that is exactly what is happening with this financial law, that is to say, the public sector is shrinking, and that is why it is utter nonsense from end to end when it is so characterised as a gift region. So I should just like to ask the rapporteur to clarify, in order to establish whether it is the headlines on the tabloid newspapers that are right or whether it is Joachim B. Olsen who is right in the characteristics of the government's Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906134952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906134953	I'm always right! And I don't think it's fair to describe it as a gift region. The public consumption growth rate is set at 0.4 per cent. This is completely in line with what was agreed in the government base, and it is no different from what has been played out in the other financial laws that have come from this government, and that is very sensible. It is not true that the public sector as such is shrinking. More resources are being allocated to the public sector. Fortunately, however, we are in a situation where the rest of the economy is growing faster than the public sector, and that is why the public sector is going to fill relatively less of the total economy, and we think that is good. For the public economy is too much in Denmark, and it is good that some steps are being taken in these years to achieve a better balance between the public and private sectors. The resources used in the public sector cannot be used at the same time by citizens and companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135055	Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135057	Thank you. As I said, I fully agree with that characteristic. This is not a region of gifts, it is, on the contrary, a financial law which does not cover the fact that there are more old people and that there are more children in our society and that we must therefore stretch the money that is in the public sector longer, which means that the level of service must necessarily decrease. Then Mads Lundby Hansen from CEPOS says you can't call it a blue finance bill. Then it is that I have him suspected of having read the Ekstra Bladet instead of having listened to Joachim B. Olsen. So now that it's Mads Lundby Hansen from CEPOS says it's not a blue bill, I just need to know if it's Mads Lundby Hansen who's right or if it's Joachim B. Olsen who's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135137	Yes, Mads is a good man, and I note that this government, with the three parties, has created the most ambitious and the most bourgeois-liberal government basis ever created by any bourgeois government in Denmark, and in that government basis it has set up a basic real growth rate of 0.3 per cent. So it's a blue finance law in that sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135206	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135211	On 12 August, Berlingske was able to read a headline entitled "Kristian Jensen: The Left does not go to the polls on tax breaks." And inside the article you can, among other things. read that the Minister for Finance is quoted as saying: "I do not think we will be discussing any more tax cuts on labour income before a parliamentary election. So, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen the theorem • I don't think we're going to discuss any more tax cuts on labour income before a parliamentary election • as such a strong promise from the finance minister that there will be no more tax reductions before or after a parliamentary election?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135314	I think the Minister for Finance's analysis is absolutely right. There is no provision for the tax on work to be further lightened during this parliamentary term, which is also coming to an end. So I think that's right. I think it's most fair to ask Mr. Kristian Jensen, I'm sorry to the Minister for Finance when he comes up here. However, as it is now, we have a government and it has a government base extending towards 2025, and in that government basis there is an ambition to reduce the structural tax burden. So that's what I'm dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135355	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135355-2	Well, what I'm trying to ask is the credibility of a bourgeois government if it had to win an upcoming parliamentary election to refrain from making tax cuts. That's the bluff I'm trying to flatten here. They say that you do not go to the polls, but just as soon as the elections are over, you might just be pushed a little by the Liberal Alliance, and then you will have to make a lot of tax cuts anyway. I mean, like Mr. Knox... Joachim B. Olsen understands how solid is so what to say about the statement from the finance minister? I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen's assessment of the realistic fact that tax reductions would not be implemented if a new bourgeois government came into power after a forthcoming parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135444	I am quite convinced that there will be a new bourgeois government no matter how it is screwed together then there will be tax breaks. In fact, I cannot think of a single government, including social democratic governments, including governments such as Mr. Rune Lund's party has been supporting the tax reduction. Thorning lowered the tax by 0.9 billion. kr. before backflow and behavior. We have lowered the tax by just over 15 billion. kr. before backflow and behavior. And in the Liberal Alliance, and I think that is actually true in other bourgeois parties, we want to reduce the tax, because it is the right thing to do. The tax burden in Denmark is too high and it must be reduced. And I think that's what's gonna happen in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135531	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135534	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to ask about what our climate wiseman Peter Birch Sørensen says in Information, namely that 1 billion. kr. In the case of climate change, far from being enough. After all, I see the Liberal Alliance as a party that, at least before they came into government, was visionary and had some new ideas for the future. What I really want to hear is whether the Liberal Alliance has any vision of the green transition and what the Liberal Alliance wants to do about it. And if the Liberal Alliance may not be part of a future government, what is the vision of the Liberal Alliance for a green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135625	Unfortunately, I have not had the opportunity to read the article in question, which is why it is a little difficult to comment on it. However, I would like to say that I find it extremely interesting that the alternative and also others can simply take Peter Birch Sørensen's words and then use them against the rest of us. Peter Birch Sørensen was in charge of the Productivity Commission, and when the rest of us are saying that Peter Birch Sørensen and other wise heads have calculated that there is actually a rather large efficiency potential in the public sector, one should lower corporation tax and other things to increase productivity, then Peter Birch Sørensen's words mean nothing. I have not read the article in question, but in relation to the rest of the question, I would say that yes, we have the ambition of taking climate change seriously, but we should not be headless about it. The same principles apply in this area as apply in other areas: to be cost-effective and not to throw money out of the window. There are a lot of problems that need to be solved in this world, and this is one of them, and therefore it is extremely important that we are not headless in what we are doing. Nor is it any use that we go so far in front of everyone else when it is a global problem, spending so much money with such a small effect if that money could be better spent on other things. So we have to achieve the goals we have set ourselves, and we are on our way to achieving them, so we are contributing very well in Denmark on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135749	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135751	So let us be very specific. One of the objectives is, and the government also says so, that we should be a fossil-free society, and that means that we should abolish cars that are not fossil-free, but why is a policy being pursued that does not at all imply that the market is prepared to introduce fossil-free cars? Why, for example, do we remove them? in this financial law game, the tax reduction for electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135824	Now, in this financial bill game, a pool of 100 million has been set up, as I recall. DKK to look at green actions outside the quotad sector. It could, for example, be done. Have something to do with cars. But I said just now that things have to be cost-effective, and when reference is now made to the highest professionalism in the country, perhaps the alternative should look at what the wise men have said about this. They say that drivers in Denmark pay 16 billion. kr. more than can be defended in relation to the cost of motorism being applied to the environment. So if you want to do something cost-effective, it is not on carism that higher taxes should be applied, but on the contrary lower the tax on carism in general, i.e. if you want to pursue a low-cost energy and climate policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135919	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906135922	In other words, there was a time when liberalism was about more than registration fees, and we, the SF, had good cooperation with the Liberal Alliance on some points, especially before the Liberal Alliance came into government. This is not a classic financial law issue, but all of this must also be financed, and it is also an opportunity to discuss these matters. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, if he thinks the government is on the right track. Just for a few examples, I can mention illegal logging, data collusion in relation to the Data Protection Act... it finally came out... monitoring of the electricity consumption of the unemployed, as we have just heard, burkalov and handshake law. So, are these elements which should mark a free society and a government based on a liberal basis? And I am actually asking because it is something that also matters to us in the SF, and because it is one of the few places where you might find some common ground with a liberal government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140040	But it is absolutely true that liberalism is about much more than registration fees. I mentioned it a little in my speech. Perhaps I think that the point where freedom in Denmark is least for the individual is when it comes to economic freedom. There the state decides over far too much of the citizens' money. In a lot of other areas we have a very high degree of personal freedom, but on that point we are one of the most tax-ridden people in the world. And that is where we think personal freedom should be increased. In relation to the specific questions it is my understanding that it is not my area that this monitoring of the electricity consumption of the unemployed, which I personally also think sounds a little strange, seems to have been dropped. I even believe that our rapporteur made quite a lot of effort to ensure that this happened. In the other areas, I think there are things that can sometimes be worried about when it comes to monitoring by the state. I just think that we should be honest and recognise that there is another threat picture as well. The task of the state is also to protect citizens' freedom and protect them from criminals who will harm them • terrorists and others. There is, then, a threat picture that sometimes puts us in some dilemmas, and you have to try to deal with them as well as you can. I just think we should recognise that that dilemma is there in terms of monitoring.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140208	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140210	Now it's not fair to ask when Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is not the rapporteur on this matter. But it is not the same thing we are talking about. And we have a problem with the fact that there are many politicians and a government right now in this country who are using it, that we are one of the countries in the world with the most data on citizens, to collate the data and use it for some sort of surveillance. And I just think this is the wrong direction, and I was hoping that you could ally yourself with a liberal party, because this is also basically a question of the right to personal freedom and the right to privacy, etc. That is why I would just like to call for the Liberal Alliance at least to keep an eye on this area because it is heading in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140303	Well, that's definitely something we're watching. It is our political rapporteur, Mrs Christina Egelund, who is also rapporteur in this area. And it's my impression that she's fighting a fight against this issue. But I just want to stick to the fact that there are dilemmas. And I just think you should be honest about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140324	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140328	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for a very good speech. When you see ads from the Prime Minister these days, you can clearly see that he is not speaking straight out of the bag. He is trying to appear a little like half a Social Democrat, the savior of welfare and everything, which is why I am very, very pleased with the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur states that it is still the government's policy to give tax reliefs it was for 23 billion. kr. Up to 2025? And there is a joy in the Liberal Alliance that public spending will increase less than the demographic move. I am very pleased to see that, because that is the truth. My specific question is this: which of the initiatives contained in this draft budget that you have put forward is the rapporteur's most welcome?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140419	Well, about the 23 billion. This is what has already been achieved, and the Social Democratic Party has voted in favour of some of it far from it all, but at least part of it. Maybe I should pull that out of the equation, the equation, or what? Yes, I am glad that a cautious fiscal policy is being pursued in Denmark in the context of the economic situation we are in. I think the Left, the DF and the Conservative People's Party are too. We're all on that policy together, so I think we're all happy about that. Then I know that the Social Democrats are now trying to convince the people that if they had the power, then there would be a completely different policy and public spending would be much higher, but that is just not right. Because when you get into the Ministry of Finance and have to take into account other than the demographic trait, that's not what the financial policy is being organized after you will probably not spend as much money as you now say you will spend.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140518	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140520	Well, if the Social Democracy comes to power, we will of course use the progress that is in Denmark, on the community, namely to apply it to everyone, as we say in our fiscal proposals. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur, since we have seen that the Liberal Alliance has had many ambitions for tax relief in recent years: after this financial law, a parliamentary election, a newly elected civil government, with which the Liberal Alliance is involved, what tax concessions are the most important for the Liberal Alliance to implement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140549	I am glad that we will be in government after the next elections, and I can hear that we are doing so, so that there will be a bourgeois government; that can be done very well. It is important for us to have all taxes lowered. There are no taxes or charges that we do not want to reduce. But we are quite honest about saying that some of the things that the Social Democrats did when they were in government should be continued. I mean, you should do something about the top tax, like Mr. Knox. Thomas Jensen has helped to do so in the past and reduce corporate tax. In my speech I explained that we have a growth challenge in Denmark, and these are some of the most effective tax policy tools that can be pulled out of the toolbox if you want to do something for economic growth and there is still economic progress and the standard of living is growing in Denmark. So I think that we should use the money as a starting point, where, like, we get the most bang for the buck, but we also have to reduce taxes for all kinds of other reasons, also for the reason that it is just fair, I think that people keep more of the money they have earned themselves by selling their time and labour to an employer. They should be allowed to keep a larger part of that; I just think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140654	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Astrid Krag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140657	After all, we have talked a lot about the elderly in the debate... the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, but throughout the debate because we live longer and there are more older people. Fortunately, most of them are healthy, but there will also be more elderly people who will be demanding care and will need treatment in our healthcare system, and therefore it naturally fills a lot in such a debate as today. But part of the discussion about the future of senior life in Denmark is, after all, about the question of withdrawal: When can you be allowed to retire? After all, we saw a desire on the part of the government that the government has not succeeded in implementing, which is why I would just like to ask quite specifically about the youngest elderly or seniors, or what they prefer to be called, whether it is the policy of the Liberal Alliance to increase the retirement age by one year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140750	Yes, that is the policy of the Liberal Alliance, and we think that would be sensible. That is, of course, bringing forward something that has already been agreed. We think that would be sensible, but there is no majority in favour of this. The government tried, but there is no majority in the Danish Parliament for it, but it does not suddenly make it something that is unreasonable to do, in other words in the light of the positive developments that Mrs Astrid Krag herself has mentioned, that we are getting older and that it is followed by several good years of life. What was expected to take 50 years in 2006 compared to how fast life expectancy would develop took only 10 years. In view of the fact that this means that there are some vintages going on a retirement pension, which get much, much longer time on a retirement pension than the vintages that came before them, we thought it was a natural place to go. But there is no majority in favour of this. It's just that the Social Democrats and others want to spend a whole lot of money, but they don't want to find it anywhere. They also talk about labour shortages and so on, but they do not want to expand the workforce so that we do not have so much labour shortages and so on. And you just can't both in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140855	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140856	I do not know whether the Liberal Alliance's financial rapporteur has had time to read the financial bill that has been put forward here today by the Social Democrats, among others. It is a question of ensuring that the unskilled people we have today are trained. There is a shortage of skilled labour, and we think it is perfectly obvious that we start with our own young people who go unskilled and our own unemployed and get them in relation to the need for labour. But it was mostly a parenthesis. I think that, when it comes to this whole debate about raising the pensionable age further, we are probably the people in Europe who will retire at the latest, as it is now with the agreement that we have been in and which was sensible, I agree with that in relation to the overall increase in life expectancy. We then have some challenges in relation to the people who die the earliest, and we just have to say that the inequality in lifetime has doubled in the time I have been here on the globe. So there are some basic absurdities built in there. But it is still the policy of the Liberal Alliance that we should raise the retirement age further. Is that government policy, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906140953-2	First of all, I have not had time to read the Social Democratic draft Finance Act, because I think I had gone to bed before it was published last night. So I couldn't quite reach it. I think this is very uncontroversial. Well, the government has tried that way. There was no majority in favour of it. I and we still think that this is a good idea, and there I think we can argue objectively and fairly why it is that there are gains in advancing what has already been adopted, in the light of the fact that the prerequisites have changed from when it was adopted and that this would be sensible. But there is no majority for that in the Folketing right now. But these are the conditions in the iron and steel industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141042	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141044	Thank you. I always think of Poul and Fritz in the pink and light-green shirts in their light-tyaches up on the gold coast of Zealand when I talk to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. I don't know why, but that picture is quite clear right away. And if it wasn't because LA's policy has profoundly serious consequences for the poorest in Denmark, then I would think it was a fine, entertaining feature. But it's not. There really are people living in poverty today, and it is as if it is a scandal that some of those who live at the top without their own fault have to contribute to those who live without their own fault in the more vulnerable part of society. I don't understand what this is like. I'm not a psychologist either, so how would I know? I would like to hear: if now, the blue bloc wins the next parliamentary elections and there does not come a reduction in taxes, will it be a blue government that LA will support? This is quite interesting to see how the opportunities for forming a government are going to be for the rest of us too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141156	That's funny: Christian Juhl, I always think of Søren Østergaard's Smashman. That's how we're a little different... I like him now. I have answered that I believe that changing governments will reduce taxes in Denmark, because at the end of the day a majority in the Folketing ends up doing what is right. That is also why we have made some of the reforms that Mr. Christian Juhl hascelerated against it. After all, it is they who have created the room for manoeuvre that Mr. Christian Juhl would like to use it, although he has not helped to obtain it. At some point we are doing the right thing, and the right thing to do in Denmark is to lower taxes, and I think that's what's gonna happen. That's why Thorning did it too when she was in power or when the Social Democratic Party was in power. So, yeah, it's gonna happen. However, the second is so very hypothetical after a choice and so on. Well, our policy will remain unchanged. Like all parties, we will work to get as much of our policy through as possible. So do other parties, and I suppose that is quite natural; so do Enhedslisten. And we want to reduce taxes and taxes in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141307	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141309	Now I think we should let the individual himself try to explain how many of the values of society have been involved in creating. Otherwise, I would like one day to hold a study group with Mr. Joachim B. Olsen about what my life has been made of. That is to say, it is theoretical, and that means that if there is such a blue government, then it is not with LA. It's a clear speech. Then I would like to ask another very brief question. Burger King, Q8, Kellogg's, ALDI, Arriva and Philips have no corporate tax paid in 2016, in 2015, in 2014, in 2013 and in 2012. Is it reasonable to have a tax system when such profitable companies do not contribute to the Community at all through their corporation tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141355	I cannot go into the accounts of individual companies. I do not know the accounts of individual companies. I have not heard anywhere that they have been accused of having broken any legislation or anything. Some companies are mentioned, i.e. whether they pay corporation tax or not. Why is that fair, then, I cannot comment on when I do not know their accounts. I assume that they have complied with Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141423	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs. Lea Wermelin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141441	I would actually like to address some of what the rapporteur said in the speech, namely that the Liberal Alliance would like to continue the reforms. After all, it is no secret that we in the Social Democratic Party are actually very happy that we managed to tighten our feet so that we could lower the top tax or that we could increase the retirement age. But I can hear that things are a little different with the Liberal Alliance. That is why I would like to ask whether it is the policy of the Liberal Alliance to halve the graduation rate on daily allowances.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141528	I can say no to the last one. It is our policy to abolish the graduation rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141531	It makes things worse in my eyes, but probably better if you vote for the Liberal Alliance. This is interesting because the rapporteur says that the draft budget we have on the part of the government is as visionary as it is, but this proposal is not included. But is it the government's policy that we should also move forward in relation to perhaps either halving or at least moving forward in relation to the abolition of the graduation rate?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141555-2	What is the government's plans and government policy, the questions are the most natural one to ask to the Minister of Finance. We think it would be a good idea to do something about the graduation. We are the only country where you go from a taxpayer-funded education with the world's highest SU, you have never been in the labour market, and then you go directly into insurance against unemployment. It does not exist in any other country. This is one of the reasons why unemployment among young graduates is high. That's not sensible. Well, you've had enough. It is good that you have access to education and that you have received high SU. But then it has to be the case that you should not have unemployment benefits, but that you should enter the labour market. And it may well be that at first you have to go into a job for which you have not just been trained. I don't think there's any harm to that. But we think it is one of the low-hanging fruits that is on the reform tree in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141646	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141652	I have always regarded the Alternative and Liberal Alliance as two parties that really wanted to change, and I think the Liberal Alliance has always tried to do that in here, i.e. an improvement, of course. Because it's not just to change, you have to change, it's to improve. Therefore, I would like to ask about something that is not just the climate area, but quite generally, that is, what young people have been very much involved, both in the Alternative and in the Liberal Alliance, should take from such a financial bill as this where the Liberal Alliance is involved. What are they supposed to see in the future and then see that they are being talked about here? I've been looking for it, and there's a lot of good stuff. There are many things that are held in our good country, in Denmark, where it is kept stable, and deep respect for it. But where is it you can see that is being spoken to the young people in this? After all, we are about to learn from the alternative where we have said that we want to go in and go after government. So how can you keep track of everything while being progressive and talking to young people? I simply miss some of what I have felt from the Liberal Alliance in the past, where you can see that there is an angle pointing forward. My colleague Josephine Fock has asked a little about the climate earlier today, and we may not quite be landing there in the same boat, but can we just get a speech to the young people in this room that is a little different from what we usually stand in?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141804-2	We have great support among young people. We have continued to do so, and I think it is about young people being ambitious today. They are self-employed, they are used to being in a market where there are goods and services that are adapted to their needs. They are individualists, they want the world, and they think it is important that there is a policy that also makes Denmark a rich and prosperous society when they grow up and are about to have a family or whatever they want. It's up to them to decide for themselves, but I think that's important. That is one of the things that appeals to them. They think there are some absurdities today. They don't think it's fair that if you work next to your studio, you'll be set off in your SU. They don't think it's fair that if you work hard on your studies, create a business, create a lot of jobs, then you should have a stupid ticket in the form of a top tax and other things. Many of them think that this is unfair, and they would like to have done something about it, and I naturally share that view with them. But they think there is something visionary about us opening up to the world. There is also the whole debate on foreign labour, etc. There are very many young people who want to live in an open, free Denmark, where they have a high degree of personal freedom and greater opportunity to pursue their dreams, and everything else becomes even easier, the less the state interferes, also in relation to how much of the money you earn is then seized.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141946	Yes, please. Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906141946-2	Thank you for your answer. We have put the greens and the climate at the top of the agenda, while at the same time there are some things that are absolutely necessary below. For example: there must be plus on the bottom line, also economically. However, are there some things in the Finance Act and the entire government's project right now in relation to the climate and the green one, which the rapporteur does not really consider to be aware of today or which it has not been possible to get through? You can't get everything through. I myself often contact some of those who are most critical of our climate approach and ask them: Can't you challenge me on this? Is there perhaps something that the rapporteur thinks could be done in relation to climate and the green transition, which is not the focus of today or which it is not comme il faut to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142027	As I mentioned in an earlier question, I think that the fact that cost-effectiveness also applies to climate change is extremely important. I think the UN climate panel has estimated that if that temperature rise of 2 degrees materialises in 2050, it will cost 2%. on the world's bnp, and they also say that if you are to prevent it, it will cost somewhere between 6% and 12%. of bnp. I think that we should be very rational and sensible. We should not invest in specific technologies. It's the market we need to help solve these things. Fortunately, more of this has come under this government. The climate policy that is being pursued has become much more sensible and much more rational, and that is certainly good.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142120	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142126	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for a clear speech and a rare pride and pride that the public sector is actually shrinking. After all, it is considerably easier to discuss on the basis of the honest interpretation of the matter. The rapporteur is the author of a manifesto of liberalism, and if you click on the rapporteur's Twitter, that is the first thing you encounter. It is also a strong contribution to a real political disagreement, and that is why I would like to put a clear question about the manifesto of liberalism. The rapporteur writes in the last part: to the extent that the welfare state provides tax-financed services to citizens, citizens should be able to choose between different providers with the freedom to experiment and compete. I am sitting in the area of children every day, and I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is also for our children, our day care centres and our schools that the rapporteur dreams of making it a business, so that with initiative and business sense you can have a bottom line that is about money in these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142231	I am incredibly pleased that my manifesto of liberalism in the Folketing is being read out. Thank you so much! It is my own, and I think it is the tenth point of my manifesto of liberalism. Yeah, I think that's very, very visionary. We now have public production of a wide range of services, from education to hospital, etc., and I believe that the important thing is that people have access to these services. That is what is important. It has to be the case that if people get sick, they go to the hospital and people have access to education. But why does there have to be a monopoly on this? I never understood. Why is it important in itself that it is the public sector that produces it? In the market we recognise that monopolies are bad and we are trying to fight them, but in these extremely important areas we want a monopoly. Why? I could dream of and now we're talking about visions... that we're setting ourselves up in a different way, where the money more closely followed the citizen, and then it was the citizen who got the money and went out into a market and bought these services, so there was competition to deliver them. I believe that this will boost the creativity that exists in people, help to find new ideas for solving the problems in new ways. In fact, I believe that if we are to have more welfare in the future, it requires that welfare becomes cheaper to produce, and then we cannot avoid talking about how we will have some competition in relation to its production.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142400	Then it's Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142401	Thank you for your answer. Is it also true in the rapporteur's view that we should be able to make money, that is to say that we should be able to make a profit that we are pulling out and putting in our pockets to deal with our children, to have to do with our educational attitude? And, according to the rapporteur, is it something that the rapporteur stands alone in his party, or is it the rapporteur's view that it is a voice that is strong in the rapporteur's party and into the government as it stands now?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142430	This is my manifesto of liberalism, these are my visions. I have allowed myself to write down some personal visions, and I am glad that they are being read out, but it is not an expression of LA's policy, but just like Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen and myself and others, of course, you try to make your thoughts felt in the party you are now in. And yes, I have no problem with the fact that there can be profit in a market, because what is so great about the market is that the only way to make a profit is actually to provide a service that the citizens would like to have. If you don't do it in a market, you can't make money. Then there are also profit motives in the public sector, but that is forgotten. They're just hidden, but it's about other things, about getting so many resources under them. There is no leader in the public sector who does not want to have a lot of resources under him, but it is just not certain that it always leads to the best and cheapest product in the end for citizens, and it was they who should be at the centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142532	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142535	Thank you. Every year, this government cuts down on our common education so that our future educators, teachers, financial economists, electricians and auto mechanics are less educated. Danish Business and Danish Industry have been criticizing these cuts in the middle of nowhere. In fact, every year at the time of financial law, they're out to say this is all wrong. Therefore, I would like to ask today why it is so difficult for the Liberal Alliance to understand that it is actually not great with a cheaper luxury car if there is not a mechanic to repair it and that it is at all the case in our society that well-educated young people are needed everywhere. Why is it so hard?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142624-2	It's not hard. I think it is extremely important and good that young people are well educated, and I think it is a pity that the Left in particular has historically influenced education policy. After all, these are the people who had the power before 2001 and in the 1970s, where this entire education policy was being developed and where it was all about people being academics, and it was the academics who made the teaching policy marked by their own attitudes and views on the world. It's been incredibly damaging. I'm telling my own children that you really need to consider taking a craft training course. There is safe employment and good pay, and it is exciting, and you can also move on one day if you want to. So I certainly think that is important. However, the re-priority contribution has been a very good thing. We must also remember the background to this. There was, after all, a structural deficit which was greater than it had to be when the Left Government came to power. I think the re-priority contribution has contributed very well. And then you just have to remember that when it comes to teaching in Denmark, it is the case that we spend 10%. of public expenditure on education. So it is not the case that there are not really many resources spent on teaching in Denmark. Perhaps you could also look at how we get a little more out of those resources, because that is what comes out in the end, which is what is important and not what comes in. There should be complete agreement on this in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142745	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142746	But it is quite unique to this government that, for the first time in fact, so much has been systematically cut back on education and research as is the case. That is how it can be said that it is not just universities, but it is all around. It's all our high schools, it's all our vocational schools, it's our professional colleges. It's all education that's gonna be exposed to these massive savings. And what we hear around here is that they're suffering. Education is getting worse, and it is very, very clear to see, I think, when you go around the educational world. It is therefore also very, very clear for both Danish Industry and Danish Business to see that it is quite wrong here. Is it the case that Liberal Alliance's rapporteur believes that Danish Industry and Danish Businesses are completely wrong when they say that this has to be stopped now?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142835-2	I do not represent Danish Business or Danish Industry. So, as far as I know, 160 million will be added. kr. more for research next year, and the total research budget comes to 22.9 billion. kr. I think it is only Singapore or South Korea that is higher than us. So the story that we don't spend resources on these things in Denmark is wrong. It is simply wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142906	Thank you. Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906142910	I followed with interest the debate between Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen and Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen talks a lot about the market, and that is also in relation to the public sector. After all, we are getting close to the fact that the government is going to negotiate on the whole health sector. If reforms are to be made in this area, I would like to know how the Liberal Alliance views the question of how much remains to be resolved by the public sector and how much of what is happening today in health care, which is supposed to be done by private actors. Has the Liberal Alliance ever thought about it? Are there more tasks to be carried out by private individuals in the future? Is that part of the purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906143013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906143015	I can give you such general ideas about that. Our approach to this question is that there are some patients who need treatment, but who gives it treatment, whether it is a public player or a private player, is, in that sense, an intercept. The important thing is that there is a patient who gets the best possible treatment at the best price. If it is not at the best price, it means that there are some other patients who cannot get a treatment or that the money cannot be spent elsewhere. Those attempts which over time have been to introduce free choice and also a little bit of competition I think it is only 1%. In the case of the health sector, which is private in Denmark and the measures taken, some people have been very pleased with. They've been happy with a free choice. You can also see that they accept health insurance on a very large scale. I don't think the citizens out there are thinking like Mr. Knox. Benny Engelbrecht. I don't think they think: I have a disease and I want to be cured, but I just think that they think: I want to be cured. That's our overall idea. That is the goal. It is not an end in itself that it is a public or a private operator that provides the service.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906143131	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906143133	Now, unfortunately, we have a history in Denmark. I agree that among bourgeois parties there has been a great preference for private health actors. This also applies to the current Prime Minister. We remember that, among other things. from the National Audit Office's criticism of the overpayment that has taken place in that sector. However, I just noticed a few weeks ago that the Liberal Alliance's health rapporteur, Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, wrote a debate speech in the Stock Exchange. I do not think there was any point in this, and it appeared that it is almost an independent purpose to strengthen the award in this area. So just this simple question: will such a reform in the eyes of the Liberal Alliance include further procurement in the field of health?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906143225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906143226	Our focus is that patients receive the best possible treatment. It is not an end in itself that this treatment is carried out by private individuals. Nor is it an objective for it to be carried out by the public authorities. We are dealing with taxpayers' money. We have a goal to cure the Danes who are sick. It must be less important who is actually responsible for the treatment as long as people are cured and treated well. I mean, I just can't see that you can think it any other way. It is quite incomprehensible to me that you can think differently. That is what we agree on. We agree here that if you are ill in Denmark, you have to have access to treatment, but how can it be an end in itself that it should be a public player who is responsible for it? Now the public fills a lot, so it may well be that there could be a large number of places where it might be good that there was a little bit of competition. I also believe that it was good for the public sector to have a little competition when it got a little competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906143322	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Then I would like to welcome Mrs Josephine Fock, who is the next rapporteur, as there are no more duellants for Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Welcome, Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906143342	Thank you. The summer of 2018 gave sweat on the forehead and in many ways became one of the warmest and wildest of the kind, for good and evil. For an eager water dog and a very eager sailor like me, it has been fantastic with the many sunny days and the high bathing temperatures, I will not hide that. I just haven't figured out how many binoculars I've taken and how many hours I've spent at sea in my sailboat, which is a small killer whale, but that's a lot. I have also enjoyed my runs along Amager's beach, where there have been filled with happy guests who walked daily to the beach and enjoyed the amazing, lovely blue water, which almost formed a southern frame on the Øresund. So, like so many others, I have enjoyed the summer in full, but I must also acknowledge that inside the joy there has been considerable concern about the conditions and temperatures that I have witnessed and which we have all witnessed. The summer has much more on its conscience than the beautiful sunshine days. It has offered warmer chords and wild weather, drought and thirsty trees, oxygen loss in fjords and in waters, yellow lawns, crunch-dry kitchen gardens, farmland as hard as stone, which has made farmers have had to kill their animals because the feed had withered, and 250 Danish lives have died from the heat wave, according to the State's Serum Institute. I know that it cannot be deduced with certainty that this is one-to-one effect, i.e. that it is all due to man-made climate change, but the development of recent years has gradually made it clear that the global climate crisis has consequences for all of us who live here on the planet, and now the consequences have also come to Denmark in earnest. These consequences can be seen and felt to such an extent. This is no longer just happening in Greenland and the North Pole, nor is it something we can only read about in thick reports from the UN, the Climate Council or NGOs. Climate change is real, and it happens right before our eyes, right now and here close to Denmark and far away in other countries. We have heard of huge forest fires in Portugal, Germany and California. We have even heard of police dogs in Europe wearing shoes because the asphalt was too hot. We read of worried researchers who daily sound the alarm over the rising seas and the melting ice about grandparents and children who demonstrate and strike because they do not feel that their politicians are taking the climate crisis seriously. We see with our own eyes how the earth becomes barren and dead, and we hear with our own ears how the sound of singing song larks and buzzing bees quietly stings. Yes, and then the more we feel on our own body, how the air and drinking water are contaminated by particles, pesticides, and how the rising temperatures affect us physically in the form of burns, sunstrokes, heat strokes and thus, at worst, in the form of death. We are literally on a burning platform. The planet's on fire. Scientists sound the alarm and tell us again and again that we cannot continue as we are now, that we have only a few years left to turn the tide, yet we still see how some here at Christiansborg turn a deaf ear, even though the climate crisis is seriously knocking on the door. Unfortunately, that is also the impression I am left with after reading the government's draft budget. I do not believe, and we believe in the alternative, that the challenges are not adequately addressed. You don't lift the responsibility that the more and more people say we're the last generation to bear. Frankly, that is just not good enough if you want to be a responsible government, because it requires at least a serious effort to ensure that there is a habitable planet for our children and grandchildren. And the government often says it works seriously to secure the planet and our children and grandchildren's future. That is why I was actually saddened when I read the financial bill. Because it is true that it is 1 billion. kr., but that's only 250 million. kr. a year to nature, environment, climate and gastronomy. And 250 million. kr. is yes, that criticism has also been heard from our own climate wiseman Peter Birch Sørensen, and in the alternative we would like to nod to that criticism. And that is why it is not, in fact, what is in the financial law itself that concerns me the most. What worries me most is everything that doesn't say there. It is the billions for the climate and the green transition that the government has chosen not. I wonder what happened to the billions for the government's ambitious climate plan, because 250 million cannot be achieved very far. kr. a year. We can also say the same about the 135 million. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals. We have promised that this money will be new and beyond development aid. Overall, the draft Finance Bill for me is a sign that Denmark needs a new government, a new government that puts consideration for our planet, not least our climate, our nature, our drinking water and our ecosystems, above all other considerations. And that is why, in the alternative, we have chosen to point to ourselves in the forthcoming parliamentary elections. That is also why, in our own government programme, we have chosen to allocate 80 billion. kr. extra for green conversion over 4 years and 10 billion. kr. for additional climate assistance and a further 10 billion. kr. to improve public transport. That's a lot of money. We can find funding for them. And frankly, it must cost something to secure the planet and our children's future. If I then turn my attention to some of the things that have actually become room for in the government's proposal, then there are some elements that I also think deserve praise. These are some of the very concrete tools that have been made in the field of nature, for example. the planting of land with untouched forests, and that is one of the things that we have also proposed in the alternative. These are good tools, but again the ambition is too low and the money too few. In the green area there are also some thistles. Because we're wondering why the government wants to spend $54 million. kr. on a wild boar fence, which most experts agree does not work, why it seems to be a waste of money. We are also surprised that the government will weaken public traffic in outlying areas by cutting funds for bus and public transport. It does not create a greener or more mobile and coherent Denmark, which otherwise is one of the things the government has previously talked about. And now that we are on the road and transport policy, I would like to emphasise that in the alternative, we still believe that it is a mistake to maintain the tax increases on electric cars for the simple reason that more electric cars on the roads are essential to transform society into renewable energy. Then I cannot help but mention the savings in culture, education and vocational schools. It is all very well that the government will invest more in vocational education and training, that students can earn more in the SU and that there will be more educators in the day care institutions, and we have, as several people probably know, even proposed to allocate 800 million. kr. extra for vocational training and 11 billion for vocational training. kr. to better day care institutions and more educators. So immediately the tactics are really good, the problem is that at the same time the government maintains the cuts from the re-priority contributions, which means that you go with one hand and give with the other. And in dollars and dollars, the government has already saved 3 billion. kr. in the field of education, since it took over in 2015. If we look at culture, it's almost the same thing. Here the situation is that the Minister of Finance, with one hand, is handing out gifts for 400 million. kr., while with the other hand he plans to collect even greater savings. So if I am finally going to take stock of the government's proposals, I cannot help thinking back in the summer of 2018, because the same thing you could say in the summer, namely that it was both good and bad, can be said about the government's proposals. But overall, the summer, after all, has not been good for us, and neither is this financial act. I am worried again because, in addition, the government also saves on culture, education and schools, in other words on the future of our children, by the lack of investment in it. Then, of course, I am very concerned that we do not take the climate crisis seriously. We are simply too unambitious. The money is far from enough, as the government's climate advisor says, and I believe that the climate advisor actually shares that view with a large part of the Danes. Indeed, more and more polls show that citizens in increasing numbers believe that the green agenda should be given a higher priority. Scientists have been shouting about this for years without success, but perhaps the call from a worried population will now come through better. In any case, it is becoming increasingly clear that the fight for climate, environment and nature is also about the struggle for life and a habitable planet, and that is in fact not so little. If it's not worth fighting for, I don't really know what's there. But it takes more than toasts and fine words. It takes action, it takes money • much more money than the government has put in the proposal we are discussing here today. And in the end, we must remember that the difference between doing something and doing enough is what determines our common future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906144418	Thank you. Then we move on to the brief remarks, and the first one is from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht of the Social Democratic Party. I would say that if other rapporteurs want to speak, they can make a quiet mark so that we can cross off.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906144435	First of all, thank you for your speech. It is good to be reminded that it has been a warm summer, if we should have forgotten it • Ah, we haven't. But, as the rapporteur also says, it is quite thought-provoking. My question must be exactly on what the rapporteur started and concluded his speech on the green agenda. After all, the current government has a goal to make Denmark fossil-free by 2050. I am well aware of the somewhat more ambitious proposal of the alternative; I also know the Social Democrats' proposal, which lies somewhere in between, but at least is more ambitious than the current government. I just want to hear how the Alternative assesses the objective of the current government and the current Prime Minister for when Denmark should be fossil-free.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906144536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906144537	I can answer that very briefly: we think that is far too unambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906144540	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906144541	Thank you for a very clear answer. If we imagine that the present Prime Minister will continue as Prime Minister after the next elections and the Alternative will have the decisive mandates to decide, if necessary, whether the Prime Minister should continue or not so it is in a country that has negative parliamentarianism and the government of Lars Løkke Rasmussen maintains its ambitious, or what we shall call it, the objective that Denmark should be fossil-free by the year 2050, will that be the triggering factor when the alternative will overthrow that government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906144632	There should be no doubt whatsoever that the reason why we are pointing at ourselves is that we think that the current government and, unfortunately, the current alternative to the government, which Mette Frederiksen has spoken out, are unambitious. That's why we're pointing at ourselves. We believe that there is a need for a completely different direction in Danish policy. We believe that we need to be much more visionary. We need to invest much, much more. We have an incredibly healthy economy at the moment. The economic wise men have also said so. That is why we have said that we are pointing at ourselves, and that is why we do not want to do the same, and that is what the specific question was about the delay in pulling the blanket away from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906144724	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906144729	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a very clear speech on climate and environmental needs. In fact, I have to say that I do not think the rapporteur was tough enough in his criticism of the government's proposals, because the small praise that drowned down to the government for the 50 million. kr., which is allocated to nature, is followed by almost similar cuts and in some areas actually by further cuts. I mean, of the 50 million. kr., such as: In fact, funds for nature management projects are being cut by 5 million in the draft budget. kr., and the funds allocated directly to afforestation are cut by just under 9 million. kr. So now they're ticking 50 million. kr. I would also like to add that the 125 million ECU has been allocated to this programme. DKK, which was allocated to the Danish Nature Fund, and which was planned to expire after 2018, also does not continue. So we actually have a minus in relation to nature when it comes to the Financial Bill 2019 and beyond. We in the Enhedslist believe that there is reason to correct that. What will the alternative do in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906144854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906144855	I fully agree, but my nature tells me that we should also praise and that we should praise when there is some praise; we should just bear in mind that, after all, the government has been able to find 1 billion. kr. for green conversion, only 250 million. kr. a year and far, far, far from the level we want. However, I fully agree with the Enhedslisten, and that was also one of the things I mentioned just on the day when the draft budget was published.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906144927	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906144927-2	If you're going to be praised for something, it's gonna have to be real praise, and maybe that was then, we can agree, dad-fetched to try and praise this. But I agree with the pedagogy. However, I would like to point out that, in the environmental field too, funds are being lost ■ 39 million. kr. in relation to the Environmental Technology Development and Demonstration Programme; 19 million. kr. In relation to the Green Innovation Pool, it's a very good will that you can commend the government for putting these 250 million. kr. of a year. If the alternative has anything more you could do in relation to the environment, where it then disappears, we just have to say 50 million quickly. kr. A year?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145017	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145018	In other words, what we are doing in the financing of the intergovernmental programme that we have put in place is that we are actually allocating 80 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. kr. This means that we really want to remedy the areas mentioned here by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And I actually thought I was pretty scratched in my criticism of the government, and I think that the listeners and the listeners in here have been able to sense it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145043	Thank you to the questioner. The next question is Mr. Anders Johansson, and after him it's Mrs Astrid Krag. I say it mostly, because if you're not a financial rapporteur such a hardcore, you have to use the table over to the left from your side. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145102	Thank you. I would also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his speech. I think that was a fair assessment in terms of the way things are now seen. What I would like to ask is about the climate, because that is something that concerns us Conservatives quite a lot in terms of how we can ensure a green transition. Perhaps we do not entirely agree on the speed, because it is something about how much it must cost to convert us into a green society, but we share the ambition that we should give priority to this area. I then understood that Mrs Josephine Fock was a little saddened I think that was the expression the rapporteur used over this billion set aside. Now I've been sitting a little frantically looking through this proposal that's come. I do not know whether the rapporteur has been able to see it, but I can see that no penny has been set aside for the green conversion. So I would like to know whether Mrs Josephine Fock has a comment on it or how the rapporteur feels about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145159	I assume that it was the Social Democratic initiative that was just referred to. What I can see from the Social Democrats' proposal and now I have only just had time to skim it, I must hurry to say, because it came very late yesterday is that, as far as I can see, it is a repeat of the previous proposals that have been made by the Social Democrats. I hardly think I can make it any clearer: we do not think that there are any alternatives here at Christiansborg, apart from the alternative, which is ambitious enough in relation to the green climate change. That is why the alternative has been set in the world, and this time we are actually providing funding to make a massive transformation. Then it is really nice and I would also like to acknowledge that Conservatives also think it is important. However, I would very much like the rapporteur's party, the Conservatives in particular, to be more ambitious, because things are simply moving too slowly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145256	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145257	Thank you for the rose, and thank you for the answer. I would like to say that we agree on the intention that we should convert society as quickly as possible, and of course it is also a question of how many crowns it may cost. But otherwise, of course, we agree on the long-term objective. But I would like to thank you for at least the feedback on this. Nor do I think it is particularly ambitious that a penny should not be set aside for the green transition in its draft budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145328	I think that was more of a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145337	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Astrid Krag from the Social Democratic Party, and after her it is Mrs Annette Lind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145338	Thank you. Now I understand from the President that I am not one of the hardcore financial rapporteurs, but I must learn to live with that. Maybe it's nice to be a little softer on the edge. Josephine Fock I think you are. Thank you, thank you. I would like to change the subject and ask the rapporteur some of the things that have been filling this summer, namely the discussion about the user fee that has crept in through the back door of our health services. This is typical when older medical patients are completed in a specialist sense in the hospitals but are not healthy enough to come home and are discharged to the municipal emergency places. Here we have seen a lot of places that there is a user fee for that stay. It is not illegal as such, but we in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is fundamentally contrary to the need for free and equal access to our health services. I would really like to hear how the alternative views our proposal to make the user payment illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145431	This has always been an objective of the alternative. We also want free and equal access to health care. So the alternative is not in favour of additional user charges in the health sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145443	So it has to be understood that one can say that this is an unintended consequence of the fact that we have changed our hospital system and have had some more specialised hospitals. So it is not because somebody has decided that this user fee should be there, but it is now there. I therefore understand the rapporteur of the alternative that they want to help roll it back, even if it requires economic priority in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145505	Now I am not the hardcore health rapporteur, so I would really like to leave it to our health rapporteur to look at the proposal that you are making and then take a position on it. I have not seen the proposal myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145516	Thank you to Mrs Astrid Krag and apologise for the discriminatory remark. I would like to see hardcore rapporteur Mrs Annette Lind put on the temporary platform over here, and after her it is Mr Lind. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145533	Thank you. Well, maybe it's Bomstrævne coming here. I would like to ask the alternative to the re-priority contribution. It is, of course, the case that we in the Social Democratic Party believe that the re-priority contribution should be removed in all areas of education. It is the case that the government has announced that it will extend its re-priority contribution for one year, so it has a re-priority contribution, i.e. 2% savings on all courses for three years yet. The alternative rapporteur said that we want to safeguard the future of children, we want to praise a little, and we say that a little is being taken and a little is being given by the government. It's kind of hard to understand what you really want in the Alternative, compared to the one with the re-priority contribution. Is this something that the alternative will abolish if it is the case that you come to the big table?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145628	I am sorry if our communication is not clear enough when it comes to the re-priority contribution. What we have said, and what we also have in our government programme, is that we want to stop the re-priority contribution in relation to education, education and culture from 2019. At the same time, in relation to the institutions I have just mentioned, we would like to add 12 billion to education, education and culture. kr. for education and training and EUR 4 billion for education and training. kr. to culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145656	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145657	Thank you. I mean, that was a clear speech when it comes to giving money back. In any case, we may now have some doubts as to where we have the alternative, as to whether or not we are going to support a government that has this re-priority contribution. If it is the case that Lars Løkke Rasmussen is going to be prime minister again and you continue with this re-priority contribution for three more years, is the alternative willing to overthrow a government on the question of the re-priority contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145735	As I think I said before, we are proposing ourselves because we think we are the only serious alternative that is right now to the blocks that are in here. We want a completely different future, and I have just answered that the alternative wants to abolish the re-priority contribution. For it is stealing from the public with one hand, and then some gifts have been added here with the other hand. Therefore, we will see exactly what is being proposed and then we will not hesitate for a second to pull the curtain under that government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145813	Thank you, Mrs. Annette Lind, and welcome to Mr. Jens Joel. After him, sir. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145820	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Alternative's rapporteur for the speech and the great focus on climate change, on the green transition, which I fully agree with the alternative in which we need to take much more seriously than we do. It is also true that it was very pleasant to be soaked in the Gulf of Aarhus, but it sends some unpleasant signals about what kind of future we are facing, and that is why we need to act more. I would like to be a little specific about some of the climate negotiations we are about to embark on, because, from the perspective of the Alternative, an ambitious climate agreement can then be drawn up in the autumn without having both concrete initiatives and rather ambitious targets for example. the transport sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145901	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145901-2	There I think we will take the same position as we did in the energy negotiations. We would very much like to participate in the negotiations, and we would also very much like to reach an agreement if this agreement does not become a maximum agreement. It must be an agreement that can be improved. We want to improve the energy agreement, there should be no doubt about that, and we are happy to be included in the climate negotiations in the same way. We hope that there will be an ambitious initiative, and then we will see how and how it is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145931	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906145931-2	I'm very interested in that very substantive discussion. Now the government has been out to say that, for example, the Social Democrats' goal of half a million green cars will not be endorsed. In fact, I do not see how we can make an ambitious agreement without properly addressing the transport sector, which is one of the areas where CO2 I agree with all that about the possibility of moving forward afterwards, but I am just trying to realise whether the alternative really seems to be able to discuss climate in a serious way without addressing, for example, the transport sector and setting itself a concrete objective, which the government unfortunately rejects at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150012	I think we fully agree with the Social Democrats on this, but then it would be so nice if the Social Democrats really stuck to that position when we go into the room. Then we'll back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150020	Thank you for that, and it's not gonna be sir. Rune Lund, next one. It's gonna be sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150025	Thank you. The alternative rapporteur was asked just before the question was whether the alternative would overturn a government in various areas. I think it was the re-priority contribution that was asked about. It kind of made me think, when the alternative has chosen to place itself a little differently in Danish politics, whether the alternative will overthrow a government that will not abolish, for example, the ceiling on cash aid or abolish the integration benefit, because there is another Prime Minister candidate who is rather unclear about what the party thinks about it. So I just want to hear: if the alternative were to point to someone other than yourself, does that mean that you would have changed the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration benefit, for example?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150119	The alternative doesn't point to anyone but himself. We're actually gonna go for government. I know that many people still wonder, and many wonder if it can be right now. But that's actually true. And once again, in the government programme we have here, we propose to abolish the ceiling on cash aid, abolish the benefits of integration, abolish the 225-hour rule, double the green cheque and lower the tax at the bottom. That's what we're going for. That is what we want. And that is from what we want to form a government. It is clear that we will then decide whether the Prime Minister's candidate in question is up to what we would like to do, and there should be no doubt that the green transition is absolutely the most important thing for us. We need to take this seriously more seriously if we disregard the Prime Minister's candidate for the Enhedslisten than some of the other Prime Minister's candidates' way of dealing with this subject, namely the candidate for the Left and the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150228	Thank you. If we just try to make an experiment of thought and assume that the alternative does not get 90 seats in the next elections, I do not know whether it is to think a little too much out of the box, but let us now try to assume it. So it is just nice to know if the situation should arise, and I hope that there will not be a Prime Minister, and that it is the Social Democrat President, whether the alternative will then actively overthrow a Prime Minister from the Social Democratic Party if the Prime Minister in question does not abolish the cash aid ceiling, the integration allowance and the 225-hour rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150307	I can guarantee that we will expose the two prime minister candidates, which of them may become prime minister, to the same trials.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150315	Thank you to the questioner. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150324	This is more in relation to the strengthening of the so-called green in the Finance Act. Sir. Ejvind Vilsholm from my party also mentioned the earlier. It is perhaps important to draw attention here to the fact that the government may put on green ties when it presents an initiative, but deep down it is not very green, it is rather black, and the figures are tampered with. You can, for example. see that perhaps 50 million will be added. kr., but that at the same time funds for nature management projects will be cut to a total of 5 million. kr. that funds for state afforestation are being cut by just under 9 million. kr., and that at the same time the injection of funds to the Danish Nature Fund is stopped, which has otherwise received a grant of 125 million. kr. a year, a grant that doesn't go on 2019 and that when you add up those numbers, there's actually going to be a minus. Can the alternative not just put some words on how much confidence one can have in a blue government that pretends to be green but actually pursues a green cut-back policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150434	I almost think it was the same question that was put by the Enhedslisten before, and I think I can only answer: yes, I agree that it is not good enough. I also think that is what my speech was strongly marked by.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150449	We have the feeling in the Enhedslisten that we hope that we will have enough electoral support for us to be able to go after the Prime Minister's post, and we therefore believe that every party, with respect for itself, should do so. No party can be set up in the world to make the front figures of other parties prime minister. But we also feel that if we did not succeed in obtaining the electoral support and we are going to vote for the electoral support, then we are going to point to the Prime Minister's candidate, where we believe we will have the most influence. The climate area plays an important role here for us. What are the considerations of the alternative in relation to where one can have the most influence on the climate if it should end there that it will not be Mr. Uffe Elbæk, who becomes prime minister after a forthcoming parliamentary election?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150540	After all, we are very much revolved around the same issues here, and I think that is quite fine. In the alternative we have assessed, it is not good enough for us to go for the least bad. We are simply a situation in which we cannot live with the least poor, and that is why we have to point to ourselves. We have presented a government programme that is completely innovative in terms of creating a central climate ministry with four ministers, which must go completely across and ensure that the policy that is being presented continues to live up to the goals we have set ourselves in terms of making a green and sustainable transition. That is why we have seen it necessary to say: the two prime minister candidates are not enough; we have to show the Danes that there is an alternative, and then in the specific situations we will take a stand on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150640	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, and after him, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150648	Then I will continue where Mr. Rune Lund let go. I fully agree that neither of the two old blocs of Danish politics is prepared to take the necessary action to achieve the objectives that we must achieve fully. There is a need for a new direction which is far, far more far-reaching in terms of achieving the objectives we need to achieve in the area of climate change. But my question is really very simple: if we do not succeed in forming a government that is green, genuine green, then we really are in a situation where there are two Prime Minister candidates who have a chance, the Social Democrats and the Left, and one Prime Minister candidate I think this is an important information for the Social Democratic Party, so that they can get an answer to this question, for example. be the Socialist Group in order to win the agreement of the Alternative and to be able to sit in the Prime Minister's Chair presents new, ambitious steps in climate policy, for example. As a binding climate law, which has so far been poured down the board by the Social Democrats, or other decisive concessions, will this have an impact on whom the alternative will ultimately not oppose as a candidate to form a government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150812	There's really, really many ifs in this, aren't there? If and if my... and I don't want to continue with that. Third Vice-President, just say it! ) But we also need to look at it as a whole. There should be no doubt that we want a green transition. I repeat once again: we do not see that vision and vision at all, as I have said, in the existing one at the moment. And we're not gonna do it for us. That is not what we are set up in the world for; that is not why we have formed a new party; that is not why we are the mouthpiece of a huge movement which wants a green transition and which also wants a different kind of policy. That is why, in the situation outlined by the rapporteur, it is going to be a break-up, a break-up in Danish politics that we cannot then point out to anyone that we are pointing at ourselves. We'll just have to decide when it comes. It may well take a lot longer for some Prime Minister to have a parliamentary basis. But in the first place, we're gonna go for this. We believe in it because that's what it takes. We need to set a completely different course for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150928	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906150930	That's all I'm totally into. Well, we blow it off in an election campaign, we try to win the people with us, and if it's possible to form a real green government, of course we do. But if we now find ourselves in a situation where it is not possible, where we cannot do everything we want, because we have not received the support of the electorate, and there are two Prime Minister candidates, and one because it is necessary to win the support of Radicals, Enhedslisten, SF and the Alternative, actually choose to make some ambitious concessions in the area of climate and environmental policy, that is to say it is like an offer on the table, assuming that it is the government that can be formed the alternative will then, in that situation, because I simply do not understand it, still say that it does not matter which of the two is? So, I do not understand why, on the one hand, it is possible to believe that the climate issue is so important and, on the other hand, it will not accept the least. Because I fully agree that the climate issue is important. We have said from the Enhedslisten side that this election must be a climate choice, that it will weigh enormously heavily on us what they deliver when, after an election, if we cannot form a government ourselves, we have to negotiate with the other prime minister candidates who can get our support. And those who will deliver something that actually makes a difference will of course be much more likely to support. It is not to accept the least poor thing that the rapporteur says, because we are making choices at the very best. But in a situation where we have a choice where we can actually make a difference, I think that is an important signal. For it is important that the Social Democrats know what is expected for them to sit in the Prime Minister's Chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906151114	It is not quite so yet that the more committed you are, the more time you get. But it's almost there, I hear. It was over time. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906151123	Yeah, I see it flashes zero-zero-zero up here. In fact, I think we have made this very clear. We have said that we will withdraw our mandates from the equation. I would like to put it another way: we want to set our votes free. We will not be parliamentary basis for either of the two who sit now a Mette Frederiksen or a Lars Løkke Rasmussen. We won't accept the least bad. I think that the rapporteur, if anyone, can remember how the Enhedslisten, which was a parliamentary basis for an S-government, was dealt with. We will not be in that situation. We will set our votes free and then we will decide in concrete terms whether they are doing well enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906151211	Then it's the raisin at the end of the sausage, sir. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906151216	Rosin? I'll try to be. It is an extremely interesting debate that takes place between the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, on which of the two will occupy the Prime Minister's post. I think so, and it's exciting to hear what visions you have. And, by the way, I sincerely believe that too. Because it is good that there are some parties that, whether you agree or disagree, come forward and put some concrete policy and vision on the table. There are other parties that could learn from that, I would like to say here at a start. It may have been clear today, but it may not have been quite so clear in the past. Mrs Josephine Fock says here that you will not add votes to the slightest small amount of money I heard that way. Does this mean, then, that if it is not the vision and government programme of the Alternative that goes through, then you do not add votes to anything else? At least small is anything other than what you put forward yourself. So in other words, if it isn't, sir. Uffe Elbæk, who sits in the Prime Minister's Chair with a purely Alternative government with the programme that has now been put forward, then withdraws the mandates from the equation, thus supporting neither one, the other, the third, the fourth, the fifth, nor how many we now have from prime minister candidates. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906151331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906151333	Thanks for the rose, by the way. I don't know if sir. Jacob Jensen looked inward into his own party when he wanted several visionaries to do just as we did, because I think that would be very good. But if Mr. Jacob Jensen asks whether we want to point to other prime ministers than ourselves, so no, we will not. We will point to Mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906151356	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906151358	I understand that, but one thing is who you point to. Something else is who you looked for one, two, three, what do I know, queens under, etc. I'm gonna have to add votes. I understood that, and I am just quoting again, we will not vote for the least bad. I cannot understand it in any other way than that if it does not become the government programme of the Alternative, then everything else must be the least of it. Well, I guess that means you lay your eggs in Mr. Knox's. Uffe Elbæk's basket, and if it can't be mr. Uffe Elbæk, you pull out of the equation. Isn't that how I was supposed to understand it? I should also like to say that this was not the case with the Left. But I think Mrs Josephine Fock knows that very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906151438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906151440	Well, sir. Jacob Jensen used to be very honest, always. I think I also continued my reply to Mr. Pelle Dragsted by saying that then we will set our votes free. We point to ourselves, that's what we're going for. We believe that this is absolutely essential for a complete transformation of Denmark. We believe that there must be new thinking. And then we'll set our voices free.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906151507	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no more challenges today. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906151515	Thank you. My big daughter asked me this morning: Dad, isn't the debate on finance law just the dullest thing in parliament? I could then reply with a fairly clear voice that I do not really think so, although the Minister of Finance may think so; he should also sit here for a long time. But I think it is one of the most exciting days and I think the last debate here is extremely interesting. But the reason why the budget debate is exciting is, of course, that it is here that we can see what it really is that the parties each feel for, what and who it is they want to give priority to spending money on. This is where we can see the different directions in which the parties will draw Denmark. Because there's the money there is to do good with, unless you want to make some more. And that is why the debate on finance law is interesting, because if you get through it, you get the impression of what the different parties really care about. It is, in a sense, the hour of truth. As far as the Radical Left is concerned, it can be said very briefly: we feel for our children and young people. It is our children and young people that we would like to give priority to in this Finance Act. That is why we are proposing to give 0.5 billion. kr. extra for crèches and kindergartens so that our children can have a good upbringing with play, joy and care. We're proposing an extra 1 billion. kr. additionally to the Danish primary school, so that they can overcome the problems in relation to the use of temporary workers, so that we can get more money for the open school and more resources for the teachers at all. We propose to stop the unconscious savings we see in vocational schools, in colleges, in professional colleges, in universities year after year, and which undermine the future of our young people. Instead, we will give a proper boost to all the same education. Finally, we propose to double the pool allocated by the government to climate action. It is perhaps the most important gift we can give to our children and young people: to deliver our contribution to doing something about global warming. So where's the money coming from? Yes, we propose that next year we open up the possibility that 5 000 more employees, qualified employees, from outside the EU, can come to Denmark and deliver their contributions to the companies, to the hospitals, to the nursing homes that are so lacking in labour today. If we do that, each one of the 5,000 from day one they enter Denmark will have a job, deliver money to the Treasury, and that will add up to a billion. kr., which we could then choose to give to our children and young people. We are also suggesting that the extra money that comes into the treasury from the correction made in calculating the emissions of CO2 emissions by cars is, unfortunately, a majority of the money that will use to turn the registration tax down again, so that the most polluting cars will not have to pay any more. So we think that is totally crazy both for the climate, but also because we think that money is 1.5 billion. kr. So let me make it quite clear that the Finance Minister too can hear it: the Radical Left is ready, the Radical Left is in play, we sincerely hope that the government will consider inviting us to the negotiations before the heavy doors close behind the Minister and the Danish People's Party. In fact, we believe that even the government can see the wisdom of helping Danish business to get more skilled labour and spend the extra money we get on it, at school and education. We have also taken into account the fact that the small increase in public consumption that will result from this will be matched by greater capacity and more people in the labour market. The Radical Left wants the direction of Denmark that our children, our young people and our business community want, and the big question today is whether the government wants to go the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906151945	Thank you. Then we move on to the brief remarks, and the first one is from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. I would like to have a flag from the financial rapporteurs who wish to speak or have a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906151957	Thanks for the speech. It is certainly indisputably the shortest that has been held today. The Social Democrats, as the rapporteur will have noticed, have proposed that we should have a look at the user charges, which take place in emergency rooms in the municipalities of Denmark. I would really like to know whether the Radical Left has been considering this. In any case, we think it is worrying that, in this way, we have in practice a user charge on something which should strictly be free and equal access to and which should therefore also be tax-financed in Denmark alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152045-2	After all, we are of the opinion in principle that user charges in health care are not in fact in favour. Now the question has been asked as to how extensive this practice really is. We'll take a look at that. When those answers are available, we can see how big a problem we are actually dealing with and what it requires from funding and whether it is real health care, or whether it is complementary to what might be called ordinary care. But as a starting point, we are against user charges in the health care system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152118	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152120	As I understand it, it's primarily the diet you pay for, and you don't do that in a hospital, but you do that in these emergency rooms. But anyway, I don't want it to separate us. What I hear from the rapporteur is certainly positive, I think, but it is also important that an economy should be included in this, so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where the money is not available in the municipalities to do so in the end. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that it is certainly not the solution simply to force the municipalities, because it can put us in a situation where the municipalities then cut on other welfare or, in the alternative, simply make worse offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152214	As I understand it, there are slightly different practices in different municipalities. After all, it is part of a larger complex which is about a number of regions moving, you might say, some costs to the municipalities, which will then be extra for many municipalities. In fact, in some municipalities it is quite an extra burden that has come without them having actually asked for it and without them getting more, if I may say so, sick. At any rate, this is something that I have a lot of questions about. So you should look at it as a whole and see how we can ensure that there is a fair distribution, you might say, of the costs that must lie between regions and municipalities. And in order to be able to take that debate properly, I think we need an overview of how big the problem is, how much, it can be said, of the extra burden imposed on the municipalities, they are then trying to retrieve from private funds and how we can find a fair cut on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152305	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, and after him, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152312	Now the green area is something in which the Enhedslisten can agree on many points with the Radicals. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether, after the next elections, the Radicals will be involved in working towards a strengthened climate law, a climate law which has binding objectives • that it could be something that could be an essential political requirement for what is to be carried out in the next government period.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152349	I can give a clear yes to that. I had the pleasure of negotiating the climate legislation we have today, and it is no secret that we would have liked to see it even stronger than it ended up being, but we put great emphasis on getting a single party from the blue block, so we were sure that both the Climate Council and the law could survive a change of government. And I am really glad that we did, but it also meant that parts of the law became less ambitious than I would have liked to have seen at the time. So if we can collect a majority and preferably a broad majority, because it suits this area I would very much like to make a climate bill which, both, we can say, goes a little harder on the independent part of the recommendations, and which also binds the government a little more on making concrete proposals for reductions than the current climate legislation does. But there are, of course, many handles in the law we already have that could be used if you had the majority. We would certainly like to contribute to a more ambitious climate bill, but let me say straight away that we would also like to make a green superministerium; we would also like to make a new green bnp. There are all sorts of things we would like to do... everything that the Alternative has also proposed. But the important thing for us is to put the concrete changes out in reality. It's CO2 Before the summer break, we managed to get the whole Danish Parliament on a 55% renewable energy target, you could say, and 100 per cent renewable energy in relation to electricity and heat. After all, this is the same level of ambition that we must have in relation to agriculture and transport, and that is what we want to use our strength for. But we also want to make a climate law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152532	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152533	Now we had an energy agreement that costs 2 billion. kr. a year for five years, and now we are faced with a financial bill that may be putting forward 200 million. I should like to thank the rapporteur for the fact that radicals are going to double up, and then it will be 400 million. kr. a year for a climate action. After all, these are relatively small amounts compared to what was in the energy agreement. I would like to hear what the reduction targets are for 2030. There are some grass roots that say we have to reach 70%. as a minimum in reduction targets by 2030. Is this what the rapporteur imagines we should put into a binding climate law, i.e. annual CO2 reduction requirements?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152615	In other words, we have put forward a proposal which says 60% CO2 A large part of it, well over half, has to be taken in the energy sector, and we have actually achieved that now with the last energy agreement, which means that the rest must be taken from agriculture and transport. This requires quite far-reaching reforms and changes in the two sectors, and we will work for that. We've set aside $300 million. kr. extra in relation to the government to climate action, but that is not only from where the money must come. We also need to redirect agricultural aid in a direction that promotes climate change initiatives; we need to look at the taxation of electric cars; we need to look at the whole way we spend our money today in several sectors that can be better done. But that's right. 300 million. kr. extra for next year is what we dropped off.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152700	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152700-2	Thank you for that, President. I would like to talk a little about immigration, which is not labour, and that is where I think we agree. After all, the demographic trait has been discussed a great deal today, and it must be used with caution. That's what the Treasury itself says. But that is obviously a major part of the debate. Until 2015, the demographic trend was 0.4 per cent. After 2015, when 21,000 refugees crossed our borders, the demographic move increased to 0.65%. It says something about the incredible resources we need for non-Western immigration in Denmark. I would really like to know: where are the Radicals on this issue? The Radicals spend a great deal of money on many, many things, and here we have an area that takes a great deal of the money we can have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152809	Now I am not in a position to accept completely the premise that the 2015 refugees alone are the reason for the increase in demographic trends that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's talking about. But whether he is right or not, the important point here is that if the 20,000 people get to work, they solve a huge problem for us and if they do not get to work, they will, of course, represent a major economic challenge. However, there is evidence that with the tripartite agreement that has been concluded and with the new form of integration that we are engaged in, far more Syrian refugees have actually come to work than we are used to in a very short time. I believe that we are up to 40% self-reliance already now, and if that trend continues, it will end up as a solution to a problem rather than a new one. But it is quite obvious, and we have to say this plainly: of course, we need to improve integration, make the right demands, do Danish teaching from day one, see people here as resources to be used in the Danish society, instead of parking them in the asylum centres for months and years. If there's in mr. Joachim B. Olsen's question, whether we can do better and do better integrationally, the answer is absolutely yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152926	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906152927	I therefore agree that those who are here should not, of course, be held to the disadvantage of society and that they should be at work. It must be said that we are a relatively young party that the parliament has historically been miserable. One of the reasons why there's this big move is some of the many bets you make. Well, it just costs a lot, it takes an incredibly large part of the room. But now I am also talking about people coming here, and I really would like to hear the Radical Left: what is the policy there? We know that this costs even if we get an employment rate of 40 or 50, and historically there is something that advocates that it falls very strongly again when we get a recession and we are in a boom right now. What's the Radical Left's answer to this? Is it the position of the Radical Left that we can continue to take as many as we have done at the enormous cost to our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153029	We hope, as I think everyone else does, that the very large flows of refugees that we experienced in 2015 are the exception and not the rule, not least for the sake of the refugees themselves. That is why we also support one hundred per cent of the efforts that have, after all, reduced the flows of refugees from their peaks by 95 per cent to the present day, namely the efforts that the European Union is making, which actually work and which matter. We support 100% of this because there are limits to both how much Europe and Denmark as a country can absorb, although of course we also have to take our share of responsibility. So there's a clear line. But where that border lies depends enormously on what integration efforts we are making, and that is why my point here is that it is our ambition that every single one of the people who comes will, of course, be included, if at all possible. My acquaintance at the moment is well over 70%. of non-western immigrants and refugees who are not on public support and who are therefore on their own. I would like to see that figure even higher up to at least 84 per cent which applies to ethnic Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153134	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153136	Thank you for that and also thank you for the rapporteur's speech. That's quite interesting. As has also been said, it is a debate on finance law that we have today, so it is also about how the parties will prioritise the money, because that is what we are discussing. There have been various rapporteurs up today, and it is a lot about who wants to spend some money, the money that is there, but perhaps also the money that is not there. As the rapporteur says, there are some priorities on the part of the Radicals, and I recognise that we can look at it differently, but there is, after all, something that is really positive, namely education and other things. Then the question is where the money will come from, even in the future. At any rate, there is one point on which we may not agree very much, and that is precisely what Joachim B. Olsen also asked about, namely the area of foreigners, particularly in the area of refugees/immigrants. After all, we have been delighted that we have had a great deal of rigour, but the Radicals have always gone out and said that if there is a new government, this must be rolled back and preferably as soon as possible. It is also fair that you say so when that is what you stand for. But if you just look at what we spent of money in 2016 on accommodation and subsistence for the refugees who came, we will see that we spent 2.6 billion. kr. 2.6 billion kr. a year. In 2019 we expect to spend 700 million. kr. Is it not a good money to save money that we can spend on everything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153256	Now perhaps the rapporteur owes it to say that the money was then taken from Danish development aid, so it is not something that has gone beyond Danish welfare in any way whatsoever. All the expenditure on asylum seekers in Denmark while they are handling their cases and receiving Danish education etc. is deducted from the Danish development aid. We do not think that is a good idea either, but it is just to get the facts right, namely that there has not been a penny from either the elderly or the education sector in Denmark on this occasion. But as I also said, it is not because we are standing down at Padborg and asking the whole world to come to Denmark. Not at all. We have wholeheartedly supported the huge effort that the European Union has made to control migration and, in particular, to sort out the illegal migrants from the real refugees. We have not opposed that at any time, nor will we do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153344	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153346	I'm sorry, I'm saying it all black. This is, of course, about the fact that when these people who are somewhere from, because it does not have to be war, they are fleeing, it can also be poverty they are fleeing from, have a little raised their standard of living, they will actually be able to afford to flee, and then, of course, they will be looking at what kind of rules they are in that country, that is, where they can go, when they have an opportunity to pay the traffickers, so that they can get to Europe. We had one of the best arrangements in relation to family reunification, a scheme where you got the best financial support and got into a Danish cash aid. Now we have the integration benefit, which is one of the things the Radicals actually want to change, but if it is changed, we will have to stand down in Padborg and make sure that these people do not come into Denmark, because then they will go towards Denmark because it will be an attractive country to come to. And I understand they're doing it. But we, as politicians, are responsible for not becoming a magnet in relation to it. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur something: do you still maintain that these things will be rolled back if you have the opportunity to do so in a future government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153446	Let us just bear in mind that in order to obtain asylum in Denmark at all, you must be a refugee and if you simply move from poverty or poor living conditions, you will not get asylum, either in Denmark or in any other European country. That is an important point here. That is why it does not matter at all that the total influx into Europe has fallen by 95 per cent, because of course it also affects how many people come to Denmark, otherwise I would like to say that one speaks against better knowledge. After all, I cannot rule out or guarantee that the Danish rule book will also have an effect in itself, i.e. how the 5% who then gets away will be distributed as asylum seekers, those who may be refugees, and for them it can be important what the national rule book is like. On the other hand, I would like to say the same. We stress that we are at the same level as the rest of Europe. We do not think we should be more relaxed than the rest of Europe, we think that we should be at that level so that we take our fair share, no more or less.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153545	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153546	Now there was before a somewhat heated debate between the Alternative and the Enhedslisten on which of the respective prime minister candidates of the two parties were to be put into action. And now the Radicals are one of the few parties, if not the only party that has not signed up as the Prime Minister's Party, no, nor has the SF signed up yet. And that means that the Radicals have to go out and find someone to play with. I got it, sir. Martin Lidegaard, that the Queen's Round would point to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as an investigator and respect for it. I would like to ask whether there are any lines, red lines, green lines, or what to call it, for the Radicals. I am thinking, for example, of the area of foreigners and whether there are any opportunities there to say that enough is enough. Or, if I sat as a Social Democrat, I could just expect to count the Radicals, regardless of what foreign policy is being pursued, for example. Because I understand that the Radicals are seeking influence, and that is the DNA of the Radicals. But if you like to be presented with an ultimatum, a finished solution where it is said that this will be the policy, what kind of reaction pattern will we see from the Radicals? One thing is that you go into a queen's daughter, but after that you have to start to find out what kind of policy a given government should base itself on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153701	Well, let's honestly say it's gonna be a crazy exciting choice this time. And then let me say that we have exactly the opposite strategy of the alternative. We do not want to withdraw our mandates from the equation. We want to throw them in with all our weight and hopefully with even more mandates after the elections, so that we can help set a different direction for Denmark. And the three points that we are concerned with, and not any of them, are ultimate, but they are the ones that we attach importance to the environment and climate, the whole area of integration and the debate on foreigners, and that is the area of education that has filled a great deal today. These are the three things we are going to make demands on and where we are certainly not just per. automatic will add our votes to a prime minister candidate who cannot deliver anything in the three areas. And then, of course, we must see how the voters let the mandates fall and who can deliver the most in the three areas. We do not think that the current government, with its present parliamentary majority, is going to provide that direction. For as we see the game, the government is drawn very much towards the priorities of the Danish People's Party, because the Danish People's Party is a clever party, and we are sorry about that. That is why we are in opposition to the current government. We want a new government and that is why we are giving Mrs Mette Frederiksen the chance to start. But, of course, we cannot just count our mandates at all costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153822	Sir. Jacob Jensen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153825	I just have to understand correctly: concessions had to be made to some extent in the three areas mentioned here. Is it to be understood that it should be in all three areas, in other words that it should be in education, the climate and the environment, and in the field of foreigners, that to some extent it should be delivered? It could then be to varying degrees. So we understand that if a paper is put in front of Mr. Simpson... Martin Lidegaard and Mr. Morten Østergaard and others, who say that this is how politics in the field of foreigners will look like take it or leave it • does this mean that they say: leave it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153858	It doesn't matter what it says on the paper. However, I understand the question as to whether we expect to influence all the policy areas on which we must bring a new government to power. Yes, we do. We know that we cannot dictate the whole of climate policy, education policy or foreign policy. But with the mandates we now have in hand to draw, we will then draw what we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153920	The next one is sir. Christian Poll from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906153925	First of all, I would like to thank you for our good cooperation in the opposition on the energy agreement. It was a pleasure and, of course, I know that the rapporteur shares my passion for the green transition, particularly in the field of energy. After all, we got the country an energy agreement which improved considerably. The first bid we saw from the government back then was a single offshore wind farm, that is. 800 MW for the entire period of the next 12 years. We had it lifted to three offshore wind farms during the same period, and that is clearly better. But I really want to hear something that has to be seen in the light of the fact that the Climate Council, which I know the rapporteur also has great respect for, has told us that, in order to achieve the climate targets necessary to keep us below 1.5-2.0 degrees of temperature increase, we must actually set something in the order of 700 MW per year up to 2030 and even further forward. In other words, we actually need considerably more than the three offshore wind farms that have been agreed here. Will the rapporteur help to re-open that debate after a choice and try to push through an even higher pace in the transition to renewable energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906154054	Yeah. I mean, we have a look at it, and we also have a look at the whole waste sector, which is a headache we need to solve. We have a look at the oil guys, and we have a look at agriculture and transport, just as I know the alternative has. In short, if it is to make sense to build more offshore wind farms than those we have already agreed, it must be because we are actually dealing with the transport sector and the heating sector, namely by increasing the need for electricity, that is, green electricity, by increasing the number of electric cars and more space heating in green electricity. Because if it just goes on the way it looks now, we'll have plenty of green electricity, if I may put it that way. So it requires that we also get something done about demand, and on that assumption the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906154139	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906154140	Thank you for a good answer. This gives me hope, because I wanted to ask the same question about the fact that there are many other technologies that we have not had enough of in this energy agreement. Geothermia, for example, has had a little, but not at all enough. The heat pumps have gotten a little, but not at all enough. We've almost missed the whole solar area in this deal. Will solar cells also be something for which we can talk and really raise our ambitions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906154210	One of the things that I personally have most doubts about personally, and that is such almost more a technical than a political consideration, is exactly where the rational cut between sun and wind goes, including how many decentralised plants we can fit into our system in an effective way compared to central and what is cheapest. And some of what we've started with this, I think, really good energy reconciliation, we did before the summer break, is a lot of analyses of the electricity market, district heating market and much else that should make us smarter on what kind of renewable energy we need more of and how best to promote it. It also depends a little on how technological developments are progressing. There are some who believe that sun will overtake wind with many, many meters in a few years, so it is much, much cheaper, and there are some who think the opposite. So it's a little early to say that. But we certainly have nothing against the sun, and if it makes sense in the overall renewable energy system and is not significantly more expensive, but perhaps even cheaper than wind, then of course it is also the way we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906154308	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. The last question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906154314	Thank you for a very fine speech, and from here too I should like to thank you for your cooperation in the energy negotiations before the summer holidays. I can certainly say that we have exactly the same approach in the Enhedslisten, namely that after an election we will throw in our mandates and, fortunately, in this area we will stand side by side in ensuring that a new government will actually mean a much, much more ambitious policy in the area of climate change, because that is absolutely necessary. It is this parliamentary election and the upcoming one that determines whether Denmark can deliver what is to be delivered. That is where we agree. Where we are less in agreement is on issues such as: pensionable age. My question is really very brief: does the rapporteur think that the current pension system, which is based on the average life expectancy, is reasonable, since this means that some of the groups that have a high life expectancy, which are typically highly educated academics and others, will have many years after the end of their working life, while some of the groups that have a shorter life span, namely typically unskilled or those with a short education, will have much fewer years with their families, children and friends after their working lives? Is that a fair model?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906154446	I would very much like to answer that, but let me start by signing for the green area. We have also been pleased with the cooperation and look forward to continuing it over the coming months and years, and we will have the opportunity to do so in connection with the climate agreement this autumn. No, we do not think that the current pension system is fair. We have a strong feeling that many of the people who have been worn out through a hard working life find it difficult to get an early retirement pension or find it difficult to retire at the time when they should actually do so. That is not satisfactory. It must, of course, be the case that those who cannot, or who are worn out, have the opportunity to retire when they can no longer, whereas those of us who, for example, have the right to retire. has a long education and has therefore not been so many years in the labour market, in return, precisely in order for the worn out to be able to retire earlier, has to stay for a few years longer in the labour market. That is why we have thought that we would like to have a system in which, on the one hand, we allow the worn-out group to retire earlier, while, on the other hand, we say to all of us who are fully committed and who, moreover, can also make a profit by staying longer in the labour market that we have to take a few more. We do not imagine it to be for years, but perhaps months, depending on how much we would like to finance through it. We would also like to finance an additional training effort to avoid that the present generation in the labour market will have the same wear and tear problems, but will have the opportunity to change jobs before they are worn out. So no, the current system is not fair; let us do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906154624	I think that is an important indication. As far as the question of money is concerned, this is quite interesting information from the economic wise men that the reforms that have been carried out have actually made the economy viable. To put it quite simply, the retirement age has simply been raised more than necessary. This means that when we look into the future, and we do so when we talk about retirement age, there is a sustainability of 20-21 billion. kr. Would it not be very natural, since it is now the retirement age of the Danes that has created the sustainability, to say before Mr. Joachim B. Olsen and others get their hands on the money and spend it on other things... that we lock that money firmly to ensure that the people who have had a long working life, and also those who have the short educations, actually get an retirement too? It can, for example, be done. • to ensure that, if you have been on the labour market for a certain number of years, you have the right to withdraw.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906154715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906154716	I guess there's a little part of the water. What the wise men have been counting on is, of course, that, as we have all agreed, apart from the Enhedslisten, until 2030, we are gradually raising the retirement age to 68 years. If you want to raise it further from 2030 to 2040, it is that the wise men say: you don't have to do that, because we have seen the money not to. But what we are discussing now is what we are doing to the worn-out people that we have today in our society. Where the water divides, there is, of course, that we insist that if we are to do something for the worn out and get beyond the status quo, we will have to find that money by 2030. That's not what the wise men have been counting on. That is where we are ready to say that then the broadest shoulders must also carry a little more so that we can afford to help the people who are worn out. We simply need to have a greater diversity in our pension system. It is not a simple task to create that system, I acknowledge it. But the first step is to agree on the principle that the healthy and well-educated and those with the widest shoulders will have to bear a little more. But the Enhedslisten, as far as I understand, will not be a part of that. They will only, if I may say so, spend more money on the worn out. That's fine, but we also have to find the money somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906154825	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted, and one more brief remark, Mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906154835	It's because I think it's, like, sir. Martin Lidegaard says here is a little interesting. How exactly is that supposed to be understood? Because in the welfare agreement that has been made, it is the case that today's retirement age will be 68, but by 2020 the Folketing will have to vote on whether to raise it to 69 years from 2035. The question then is: is it something that the Radical Left will vote for, or is it a prerequisite for the increase in retirement age that at the same time some mechanisms are being created so that those who have become physically worn out in the labour market, for example. during a long life, or are mentally worn out, not affected by such an increasing retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906154924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906154926	I do not really think I can commit myself to what the Radical Left will vote in 2020 for something that will happen in 2035, at a time when I sense that there is beginning to be some agreement that we should look at the agreement we have made, because there are some worn-out people who are too difficult. As for where we are now, it can be said that if you do what the wise men have calculated and which Enhedslisten apparently wants after 2030, we will take the whole room. So there is no penny for either education or the elderly or health or anything else, and I do not think that will be a radical policy. You eat, if I may say so, all the financial room there is to keep the retirement age at 68, but we can become wiser.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906155009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906155012	I really think that this debate on pensions is a little interesting, and I think that there will be a gigantic, huge debate up until 2020 when the Folketing has to decide whether to raise the retirement age to 69 years. It's already started today. When I hear the Social Democrats, I hear that the Social Democrats are also moving away quickly from the welfare agreement, which automatically raises the retirement age, and I also hear that the Radical Left is in doubt about how wise it is to just make this automatic increase in the retirement age for everyone. After 40 years on the labour market, we have proposed in our proposal that you should have the right, but of course you should not have the obligation to retire, and then you can have the benefit to live on, if you go on reduced time, then the allowance allowance for the part of your working time on which you do not work. It's gonna take some money. We are also proposing funding for this, among other things. to remove the right to deduct pension payments from the top tax. That would be a considerable amount of billions. But I just think it is interesting that the Radical Left can see that there are some huge problems with the fact that the retirement age should just increase. After all, that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906155125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906155127	Now I think that Mr. Rune Lund may be a little deliberately over-interpreting what I'm saying. We are in favour of the 2006 welfare agreement. It is, of course, the reason why our economy is linked over the next 20, 30 years. If we hadn't made it, we'd have a hell of a problem, I'd say, over the next 5, 10, 15, 20 years. So we're very happy with that deal. But when we look at the early retirement scheme, i.e. the early retirement scheme and the search for it, we think that it is as if it is not working satisfactorily. We think that there is a problem with the most worn out. It's a hole we'd like to close. And then we're just saying that if it's to be closed, it's gonna cost some money, and we think we can best come from some of the rest of us, sir. Rune Lund and I, could take a few months extra on the labour market to help the worn out, because in the meantime the joy has come that our life expectancy has increased much more than we thought 2006 • 31⁄2 years more on average we all have to stay, compared to what we thought in 2006.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906155228	Thank you to the rapporteur for the debate. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906155243	Politics can, at its best, show a way forward, a vision of which society we want, and that is why we are all here in politics. Politics must go on two legs: it must show both a way forward, a vision, and then every day we must do our best to solve concrete problems from people's everyday lives, and those solutions can be very different because we see the world differently and we are in different parties. But SF's vision is a Denmark with security, faith in the future and investment in people, not least the children. We must strengthen our welfare and significantly increase our green ambitions and give each other more tranquillity. This means, in concrete terms, that we will put an end to the policy that means that thousands of children in Denmark are growing up in poverty with far worse chances of a good life than those of their peers. SF will create a more equal Denmark where everyone has the chance to join. It must not be the gravity of our wallet that determines whether we can get proper care when we get old, good treatment when we get sick, or the best education while we go to school. Our children and young people need to be more calm. More educators, smaller classes and more time to develop at their own pace. Similarly, we must do much more to calm down and combat stress both in the workplace and among the unemployed. We must invest in the working environment and give everyone the opportunity of a dignified withdrawal from the labour market. At the same time, we must turn up the green ambitions significantly. There must be more room for wild nature, we must take better care of our drinking water, and then we must have an overall strategy for climate action that will show the way not only at home but internationally. Finally, Denmark must assume its international responsibility for the refugees most in need of help and start again accepting quota refugees. All of this is reflected in our Finance Bill, which can also be read on our website, SF.dk. We have expenses for over 8 billion. kr. and funding for just over 9 billion. kr., and that means a profit of a small billion kroner. Our proposal is therefore more than financed, and the big difference between our proposal and the government's financial bill is that our proposal is solidarity, oriented towards the future and green. That is the crucial difference, and that is the political difference between the government and us. I would like to highlight some of these points here. Firstly, as I said, we have a very significant focus on the youngest citizens in this country. There must be a maximum of three nursery children or six kindergarten children for each adult in the day care centres. It is essential for the well-being of children and for the rest of their lives that they can get the attention and adulthood they need. Then we also call for an end to poverty benefits that create child poverty. We know that poverty in just one year can harm a child for life. It is deeply irresponsible with poverty benefits, which affect children to a large extent and have resulted in a doubling of child poverty. During the three years that the government has been sitting there have been 10,000 more poor children. That is why we have also found funding to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit. Then we will also have fewer children in classes, we will have a class ceiling of 24 pupils in primary school; there will simply be crowded too many children into classes, and a ceiling is needed to ensure that no more than 24 children start up. Then we will also abolish the ceiling on education, which, in many situations, prevents young people and others from taking the training they have found to be the right one for them, and there has also been the strange situation in which some people are speculating that they should not finish their education because they will catch the table, and it is high time to abolish the ceiling on education. Generally speaking, we must drop the headless savings on our educations. We live in a very rich country, and we are in a boom, and then you save billions of dollars on some of the most important things at all. By 2022 more than 4 billion have been saved. kr. in education and training. They are too important for arbitrary cuts, and that is precisely what the so-called 2% re-priority contribution is. a year is. The government therefore speaks a little with two tongues when it comes to education. When the Prime Minister presented the Disruption Council he stood before Marienborg and talked about the challenges of the future and new technologies, etc. This meant that one of the most important things to invest in was education. On the same day, the education ceiling came into force, and on the same day, when the government launched the dimensioning of international students, the Prime Minister then presented a task force to mobilise foreign dancers in the promotion of Denmark. Well, it's like the two things just don't stick together. The government talks about education, but saves and cuts. Last year alone, 100 million were saved. kr. net of vocational training, and at the same time we ask: where are all the skilled people? Airy plans are being made for the recruitment of sosus, and their degree programmes are being cut. At professional high schools they have calculated that their savings mean 1,200 years' work. So you can feel that. Then we will also give priority to the elderly, especially the elderly, because the elderly are a very mixed group that most needs our help. In many municipalities, the number of employees in the care of the elderly has been cut to the bone, and this means that there is extensive use of temporary workers, and many who need help meet a new face from time to time. There is a need for all municipalities to introduce permanent teams into home care, and this requires upgrading, so that you do not need the temporary agency very often. And we have set aside money for that too. When DF's rapporteur, Mr. René Christensen stood up here, I suggested to DF that we go together to introduce what we in the SF call an older guarantee. You can do so many bends and say you're doing fancy toilets etc. in order to avoid the fact that the demographic move is 0.65, and in order not to have to relate to 0.4 means real cuts. However, we know that the municipalities will have increased expenditure on the elderly in the coming years, when the number of elderly people, including those requiring care, is increasing significantly, and that is why we are proposing an old-age guarantee, in which we say that the municipalities must, of course, have money that goes with the number of elderly people they receive. Hospitals are also under pressure, and this affects patients, creates stress and increases sick leave among employees, which is why we have set an additional 200 million. kr. to more care personnel in the hospitals. In our healthcare system, most public health services are free of charge, and that is a good principle, because it allows everyone to go to a doctor on equal terms, to be admitted to a hospital. However, there are a large number of significant exceptions. We have talked about them in recent days, emergency places, but also the dental and psychological fields. We want to start phasing out user charges in the health care system. And it is not a cheap task or an easy task. It's really, really expensive, but we think it's important. We don't think it makes sense that if you're hurting your soul, hurting your mind, then there's user charges, and if you've broken your arm, there's not. Or if you have an abscess on the outside of your cheek, you can have it removed, but if it sits on the inside next to a tooth, then it costs the box. And one of the most fundamental things you can feel as a citizen is inequality in health. That is where we become the most vulnerable, and that is where we need to ensure a greater degree of equality. Our workplaces and our working environment need an upgrade, which is why we have also set aside extra money for the Labour Inspectorate, which has been cut for many, many years. We also want to upgrade the whole fight against social dumping, as we find out when we ask about it, is actually a very good business; apart from that being perfectly reasonable, then it also serves itself over and over again. Soon I have spent all my speaking time, and that is really a pity because I have so much more I would like to say, but many of those things I cannot get into here. I would also like to conclude by saying that we have an international responsibility. We have a responsibility to cooperate with the whole world on the huge challenge of climate change and in the flood of refugees that we see. That is why we must both put a green billion of it, we have done so, and in addition we must also return to quota refugees. These are some of the most vulnerable people in the world, and it is crucial for SF that we also lift that part of our responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160315	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160320	Thank you, President. And thank you for a good speech. I would like to hear the SF's view on the issue of emergency places. We have mentioned this before in today's debate. I know that this is something on which the SF's rapporteur in this area has also focused a great deal, but it is just to hear a statement here in the context of the financial law debate on how the SF views this issue and, of course, also the Social Democrats' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160351	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht is absolutely right. Our rapporteur hardly talks about the second day in and has asked, I know, a sea of questions to the Minister about it and is very concerned about it here. We have also set aside money for this in our financial bill. And that's why this is an area where we look exactly the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160416	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160429	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There were many things on which we can agree very much on the part of the Enhedslisten. What I also saw was that there is over-financing of 1 billion. kr. in the draft financial regulation submitted by the SF. In our proposal for a 100-day plan, we propose to remove the minor regulation of transfer income. This is, of course, cash benefits, cash benefits, sickness benefits, early retirement pensions and a number of other transfer income that will be less regulated as a result of the 2012 tax agreement, which was also granted tax rebates in the top tax and which SF was part of. And in our 100-day plan you can see how much it costs to remove the minor regulation... that's what I've been asking the Treasury about... and it costs just about 1 billion. kr. So my question is: there are 1 billion. kr. SF will not help to remove the minor regulation of transfer income and will help to remove tax rebates for top tax payers back from 2012?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160536	Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160541	I think that sounds very tempting, but I have no mandate to stand up here and say that I shall talk to my group about it. The billion left over in the 2019 Finance Act, if our proposals were implemented, we would actually have set aside to finance some things in the years ahead, 2019 and 2020. But that's something I want to discuss with my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160609	Yes, because I see you've also set aside a small pool of 750 million. kr. to other actions. So there should be room for this. I mean, the reason why I think it is so important that we remove the minor regulation is that the tax agreement in 2012 was simply so abominable. It was just so nasty. It was absolutely the most inequality that happened under the previous government, and if there is something that really needs to be done about, then that is the reform. We should roll back the tax cuts and we should ensure that this is corrected in relation to the people who were included in the less regulation in this regard. For it is the case that in 2022, when the reform is fully phased in, a person receiving daily allowances will have DKr 13,000. less a year than that person would otherwise have had if the reform had not been there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160657	I agree that the funding for it was not and is not SF policy. I think people know that we have said so many times. But we are on the goal of the agreement we have made, and that is what we have to do when we have reached agreements. I would say that we absolutely do not like the funding, and I think we see it the same in relation to the Enhedslisten. However, there was a wealth of other things in the tax reform, also in relation to single people and pensioners etc. But bottom line is that what we are thinking about today, when we talk about tax reform, is that it was people on transfer income who carried the finance part yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160744	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160759	Thank you. Like the previous rapporteur, I would like to talk a little about energy and climate. I would also like to thank you for the good cooperation we had in landing the energy agreement that was recently landed here. A united opposition has worked together to raise the level of ambition in the agreement. We got, for example. It was lifted from an offshore park for the next 12 years, which was almost an embarrassing level, to a level of three offshore farms. But we're still a long way from the target. The Climate Council tells us that we have to set up around 700 MW per year. This is roughly equivalent to a offshore wind farm. So my question is: will the SF help to raise the ambitions of a choice, to build on the energy agreement that lies and to set up much more renewable energy up to 2030 and also after?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160903	The short answer is yes. After all, we are now waiting with excitement for the government's proposals for a climate plan on top of the energy agreement, because we were the more people who might think that something was missing in the climate area. Then we were promised that there would soon be a climate challenge. Unfortunately, it can be said that the green billion that the government prides itself on over four years is not enough to cover both a climate play that battles and nature restoration and land distribution, etc., as it also needs to be. It's time for new money. We have dropped significantly more money in our financial bill, and I also know that the alternative has. There needs to be some more money on the table in the first place to ensure more ambitious climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160957	Here you go, sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906160959	Thank you. Well, that sounds promising. One of the sectors which must also move forward is agriculture. Time and again we have raised the debate on the huge meat production we have in Denmark, how we can deal with it, how we can embrace it and ensure that the climate load from it is reduced. It is clear that the adjustments that are in place in order to optimise the production of meat are about quite small percentages. We therefore need to look at the distribution of meat production in relation to the production of vegetables. Is this also something that SF will help to look for a choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161040	Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161043	It is obvious to everyone that agriculture is a great emitter and must bear its share of the responsibility for achieving our objectives, just as transport must. That is why you can often wonder when you see more and more petrol cars coming on the roads. So it is said that there is only one real place to pick up those savings, and that is in agriculture. But it cannot be imagined that the government will demand extra agricultural expenditure. So right now it's very hard to see where these reductions really come from, when we have two of the non-quota sectors where emissions are really just going in the wrong direction. But it is clear that we have to look first at what we can allow ourselves to do with emissions, because this is a bottom-up task. It's not whether we want to or not. I know that there are still a few politicians who feel that way, but it is, after all, a bottom-up task that needs to be solved, and then we need to set up our agriculture in a more sustainable way. Because I also want us to have an agriculture in the future, but we also need to have more nature and more space.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161153	Thank you. Then we are back in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Jacob Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161157	Thank you for that and thank you for the many different initiatives, and here too I would like to acknowledge that there is, after all, someone besides ourselves, in all modesty, who is putting forward something concrete. What I really want to ask, when you listen to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's long wish list and initiatives, is whether it should be understood that it is in addition to the welfare investments that lie in the government's draft Finance Act, where we are proposing investments in relation to psychiatry, in relation to health and in the various other areas. So, what SF brings in here should be added to it, or could it be imagined that there were some of the investments that we have put forward in precisely these welfare areas, which SF pulls out in their proposals and thus uses as a source of funding? Or where is the source of funding for these additional proposals presented by the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161249	After all, our financial law proposal is, technically speaking, a catalogue of amendments to the government's draft budget. I mean, none of you have them here. There are four volumes of the budget bill, so nobody has that. After all, a very large part of a budget law is also expenditure, which we all agree is necessary, i.e. wage costs for public employees, etc. So these are amendments to the government's financial bill. If sir... Jacob Jensen has not been looking, I can say that these are reserves and pools, which are quite significant in the government's draft budget. Then we also have some things, we will roll back in relation to company heirs, etc., and there is a higher price for cigarettes, etc. So the funding is there and we have funding of well over 9 billion. kr. and costs for well over 8 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161354	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161358	Thank you very much for that and thank you for a fine speech. Well, it may seem like Mr. Knox isn't here. Rune Lund and I are teasing SF with some of SF's perhaps less clever appointments under the last government. But it is now not to tease, but more, because we are at a very important moment right now, which is the end of the sale of DONG, that is to say our joint energy company DONG, of which part was first sold to Goldman Sachs and it was later listed with SF's support. One of the things that worried us very much and one of the reasons why we were opposed to the privatisation was that DONG, now Ørsted, owns some very important infrastructure, including our electricity distribution network, which is now separated in the company Radius. So that is what covers Copenhagen and large parts of North Zealand, and on which we who live in those areas are totally dependent. So it must now be sold and there is a great fear that foreign capital funds can be re-entered to make money, so that consumers will have to pay again for the investments they have paid for once. There is also a fear that we can bring in foreign companies from Russia or China or other states. The SF is a conciliation party. You want to make sure that doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161515	Try to avoid direct indictment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161518	I am actually very pleased with that question, although every time I hear the word DONG, it still hurts a little bit, but that is the way it is. The state owns 51 percent. of what is now Ørsted/DONG. We believe that there is some vital infrastructure that should be in the hands of either the state or the users or the customers of that infrastructure. When it comes to electricity distribution or Radius, we think it might be just as good if there was an existing company, which is customer-owned, user-owned, which took over it, theoretically. We don't know who's gonna offer this. But also learned from past experience, a clear agreement has been made when it comes to the one who wants to buy Radius, that the circle of parties must approve it, and I would in fact also say in all fairness that it is not my experience that the Finance Minister or any of the other parties want to get Chinese or Russians or Saudis, or who it might be, into something that is critical infrastructure. Then it may well be that we look differently at a capital fund that is located somewhere, but I also experience that I think it is fair to say here that a concern about what our infrastructure can be used for these days. So my experience is that there's a focus on who's buying this, and from the SF we won't say yes to it, if it's not someone we can see that it's even better with than with Ørsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161703	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161705	Yes, because of course the possibility was also to leave it in the still-lost majority state-owned Ørsted, where we still have control over it. So it is certainly an opportunity where you can just say as a majority shareholder: that is how it should be. But if you sell to a capital fund, there is no guarantee whatsoever that that fund will not sell on to, for example, a capital fund. Russian, Chinese or Saudi companies. And that's why I just wanted to ask: Well, can SF's make sure this doesn't happen? And if that is not the case, has there not been a bad agreement when the listing of DONG was accepted and agreed to that settlement just to say: we are sitting at the table; we can make a difference? But if it ends up in other hands, so that consumers will pay for it and so that it threatens our security of supply, has it done its job properly in the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161759	That will not happen with our approval either. I hope it is as clear as I can say at all. SF is only interested in Radius being sold to a company that is not profit-oriented, is not a capital fund, is not abroad etc. etc. but which is a customer-/user-owned company in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161826	Thank you. And then it's sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906161830	Thank you. The rapporteur spoke of poverty. It's an old travert from the SF, which you keep pulling out of the drawer. I just think you forget to tell the whole story. Now I am not quite aware of that, perhaps the rapporteur can make clear to us what kind of poverty threshold you are using now. Is it the previous government, which SF was also part of, poverty limit, or is it Denmark's Statistics, or what kind of government are we operating with now? But in any case, I think you should tell the whole story. Well, what's the level here? And what we're talking about is that if you're a single mother on cash benefits and have two kids, you have 18,000 kroner. paid after tax. It is a low income, there is no doubt about that. But is poverty really the right word to use about it? Especially when you look at the dynamics of that group being very high. Well, half the group that's in a year isn't going to be there next year. Then they've moved on. There's a huge dynamic in this. If the rapporteur and the SF succeed in abolishing this, people will show this experience to be on these benefits for a long time. It is quite funny when you look at social mobility, because it is much lower for people on transfer income than for people in the low-wage area. If only the same mother works in a low-wage job, then social mobility is twice as high. So being on transfer income is in itself bad for social mobility. And since we know that higher benefits lead to more on transfer income, more that is longer, I actually don't quite understand SF's approach to this issue. Well, it seems like it's more with the heart than with the brain that you do politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906162026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906162028	I might have missed the last remark. I thought it was kind of weird. But I think that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's comment here reflects what I started by saying in my speech, namely that we see the world very differently. And Mr. Joachim B. Olsen looks at some people and says they're on cash, ergo they do that and that, and then there's a negative social legacy. One could also turn it around and say: right now we have a boom, there are plenty of people at work, and the group of unemployed who are left has problems other than unemployment. So it depends on whether you see that there are people who find it difficult to have an ordinary job in an ordinary labour market, or whether you see them as lazy, who are at home, and then they rub off on their young. So it also has something to do with a human vision. I would also like to say that we have not invented the poverty line. It is an OECD definition which we also had under the previous government and which the government has now removed. One wonders, of course, why, if the government is so proud of its own policy, it will not allow it to be measured by internationally recognised methods.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906162146	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906162148	Well, we are certainly proud of our own policy. It moves people from transfer income into the labour market. However, I think it is quite fair to say that some are pursuing policy with the heart, and some are leading it with the brain. I refer to the knowledge in this area, when you know that higher benefits lead to longer periods and more on transfer, and when you know that being on transfer in itself contributes to the risk that children themselves will be on transfer income, it will be significantly higher than 40%. higher. That's what you have to take seriously if you have a sincere desire to do something about these things. And yes, there are problems. Well, most of those who are on transfer income are certainly not lazy. I never said that, but that's the kind of thing I get thrown in my head. They're in trouble. Thank you!), some of them, they may not be able to enter the labour market because they are very high demands because of the high benefits, and then the minimum wage will be very high. But I think that these things should be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906162244	And then the rapporteur answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906162247	Now I'm on the Committee on Finance with Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, and I know that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is very good at finding statistics that fit into his own world picture. There are lots of studies that show that growing up in poverty just for 1 year as a child is going to affect a rest of your life. We also know that the group of people who are not in work now because we have such low unemployment has problems other than unemployment. They are sick, they have diagnoses, they are caught in a span between being on completely different benefits or being elsewhere and then being in the ordinary system. So again I would say: we can stand and throw different studies at each other's heads, but in the end it's also about whether you basically see it as such that people should have a reasonable basis of living or not. And there we have different views on how reasonable it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906162349	Thank you for that and no one else has asked to speak to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906162400	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the government for the good draft budget. We are very much looking forward to negotiating on this. Because we think it is a proposal that brings Denmark in the right direction, both in terms of strict and consistent legal and immigration policies, because it also has an impact on the finances of the empire, but also in terms of tax and tax relief for Danish business and a strengthening of the climate area, of course, and not least money for health, the elderly and the children's area. That is what we call conservative core welfare. It's going extremely well in Denmark. Employment is rising and increasing, and total employment has now reached an historic level. Never have so many Danes been in work, and since 2015 140,000 private jobs have been created. There are over 50,000 fewer Danes on public support, and the very best thing is that the trend even seems to continue for some time to come. It is, of course, far from the government's or the Folketing's profit alone, but I would nevertheless like to sign for the many broad agreements that have been made in here and that have helped to raise the Danish economy and have contributed to growth and have helped create a room for manoeuvre for the financial economy in the future. One of the most recent major agreements we have made is the energy agreement. Behind it are the entire government and government parties, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left, the Social Democratic Party and the SF. The agreement facilitates electricity charges by nearly 2 billion. kr. in 2025 and secures three wind farms and 4.2 billion. kr. more for renewable energy. I think we can be proud of that. Imagine bringing together a government, nine parties and four prime minister candidates for the same policy. Well, joke aside. Because precisely the energy agreement is of great importance to our climate. In fact, it is so important that the energy agreement now covers 55%. of Denmark's energy consumption with renewable energy in 2030, and now the government is proposing a further climate billion. This is fantastic, and it also means that at the same time we are achieving very well the first part of the government's climate objective, and this is an important priority for the Conservative People's Party. As I said, Danish economy is on its way forward, and this is due to several things. Among other things: that things are going well in the countries around us. That is part of it, because we are a small and open economy and we make money selling goods and services to others. Therefore, it is also essential that Danish companies are competitive. We must remain competitive, and our companies must be very close to our Conservatives. But the fact that the Danish economy is on the way forward is primarily due to the companies. This is due to local businessmen, entrepreneurs and large global companies alike. And, of course, we politicians should not try to take credit here, because it is not us who, for example, are doing this. moving to Costa Rica and setting up a container terminal, and we are not investing our own money in products that need to be developed into India or putting everything on a board to become an entrepreneur. But we can do something. We can actually do a lot to make business easier. We can, for example. We must keep in the dark about inventing new burdens for businesses, and then we can abolish some of the burdens and bureaucracy that burden business. A very good example of this is the proposal by Minister for Industry, Rasmus Jarlov, to abolish the waste charge. We all drive past small businesses and self-employed people on their way to work, and then I think: why not just let them concentrate on what they are good at, instead of having to waste their time paying a bill for some waste they do not produce, or even more so waste their time working to be exempt from a tax on some waste that they do not have. In total, the government collects 100 million. kr. in the so-called waste management fee, and of this the 50 million goes to public administration, to which you can then add the resources that it costs to handle the fee in companies. This is pointless, and it is a great annoyance for the small businessmen. In total, the Finance Act provides for strengthening business and reducing burdens and taxes for 400 million. kr. annual. That's smart. All the money that we have discussed here today how to distribute must be earned first and without companies that can effectively create value in fierce international competition, yes, we would have had a financial bill that had looked quite different. It can also be said quite briefly: if there are no companies, there is no welfare either. The transition from the policy of the last Socialist government to the current tight immigration policy is also important. We have tightened up tremendously and it has been necessary. I have also heard parts of the Left admit that this is necessary, so I would like to say thank you for that. And now hold to that point of view, because strict immigration policy matters. We only have two and a half years left: Denmark operated 98 asylum centres with 18,000 asylum seekers. Today there are 19 centers left. The fact that the Danish economy is on the way forward is also due to the fact that we have implemented reforms from the political point of view. Just think of the early retirement pension, which gave healthy and healthy people the right to go on public support much earlier than the normal retirement age. And there I have to be the first to say that it could have been quicker to get started, but I still doubt that someone today will roll the change back. Because these are reforms of, among other things. the early retirement, old-age and unemployment benefit system, which provided a margin of 27 billion. kr. in 2025, and I should be a little surprised if anyone here today wants to pick up that bill. Without such reforms, the 2019 Finance Act would have looked quite different. This is among other things. because of the policy of financial responsibility, it is now possible to invest in core welfare, health, children and the climate. At the same time, we have an economic space to lighten taxes and burdens for business so that they can become even more competitive and our companies will be even better able to create value for Denmark in the years to come. One can then think about this if one is one of those who repeatedly protests against reforms or warns against social mass graves and has told people that now, once and for all, welfare is once and for all dismantled. The Finance Act allocates 4.2 billion. kr. to raise welfare, with a focus on core welfare. Among other things, the government will: to raise the health, elderly and children's area by 750 million. kr. Every year because we have to do what we can so that all children in Denmark get the best possible start to life. Our Minister for Children and Social Affairs, Mai Mercado, has presented a plan that will help give children a good start to life • a so-called 1,000-day plan, because we know that the 1,000 first days of a child's life are the most important. For this reason, 460 more trained educators must be employed in the day-to-day services, where there is a large proportion of vulnerable and vulnerable families. This is important because the first time is so crucial for the development of children. There is also room for more security in Denmark. In concrete terms, this means that some of the easing of justice policy carried out by Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Minister of Justice are being rolled back. More money is also being allocated to PET, and the work of our Minister of Justice to provide more officers, also for the close work, I think most of us in this Chamber are familiar. In the Conservative People's Party, we look forward to the future. The Finance Act is good both for the Danes and for Denmark, and we look forward to further good and constructive negotiations on the Finance Act. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163257	Thank you. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen is standing over there. That's great. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163309	Many thanks to the rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech, and also congratulations to the rapporteur on the debut of such a budget debate here. We are, after all, a number of parties, I think, as such, have been pleased with the course taken by the Conservatives when it comes to taking climate change and the green transition seriously. That is why we were very sorry when the Chairman of the Conservative People's Party said not long ago that it is now time for a change of course. In the Conservatives, less attention will be paid to the green transition and much more to classical conservative themes such as lower taxes and lower taxes, perhaps even for the companies that are making a mess. Can the rapporteur confirm that it is perhaps also precisely the change of course that has made this financial act more or less clear of green action?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163356	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163357	I can't confirm one thing or the other. Firstly, the Conservative approach is firm and, secondly, this proposal is not cleared of green or climate initiatives. I have heard that the Social Democrats have claimed that our course should have changed in the green area, but that is not the case, so I can refute that. On the other hand, I have looked into the Social Democrats' proposal and wondered a little about the fact that there is at least no funding for any climate action in it, but it may be that the questioner knows more about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163429	There is now plenty of funding and measures for the green transition. The rapporteur can, of course, read both our financial legislative proposals and read our major proposals, which came earlier this year, on how we are going to deal with the green transition. But it is not us who claim that the Conservatives will not take the challenge of the climate seriously; it is, of course, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, who said, quote: There we should not use our powers. That is why I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that there were several of us who read it, and all parties have, after all, conducted advertising campaigns, changing their logos into the green colour and they have been said that there are no limits to what we should do, that when it comes to the specifics of this draft budget, there are virtually no initiatives that will equip us better for the future in relation to the green transition. Can the rapporteur at least confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163517	I just have to tell you that Mr. Knox... Søren Pape Poulsen is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163522	I can confirm that the conservative approach to climate change is clear. Nothing has changed. Our ambitions are completely unchanged. When we entered the government, we had an ambition that we should be 50%. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous programming periods. Now we're up 55%. We appreciate that. We have ensured that a climate billion has now been set aside over the next four years in the draft budget. We're really happy about that. And of course we work on every day to draw Denmark in a greener direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163551	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, and I'll just say that it's Mr. Lund. Thomas Jensen after. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163604	One might actually wonder which areas of legal policy are actually related to a financial law, but it is clear from the draft Finance Act which the government has put forward that the government wants to restrict the use of community services. So it's just that I'm thinking, what's the smart part? We know, of course, that if there is community service or electronic anklet or things that are not being thrown into prison, then the risk of the person being punished in this way committing crime again afterwards is much less than it would be if we simply sent people to prison. So it's because it just sounds really cool that there should now be less community service, or what is the Conservative People's Party thinking here? I'm asking the Conservative People's Party because it's the Party of Justice. Well, what's the point of this? This will certainly lead to more criminals and thus more crime and thus more victims. How clever is it to pursue a legal policy that, in general, will prevent the optimal way to combat crime and be less optimal in preventing people from committing crime again, and thus also create more crime in several areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163723	So I understand the questioner that if you put people in prison, it will increase crime. I have to say that in the Conservative People's Party we see criminals in prison as such. And there is, of course, a group that was given the opportunity to serve with ankle bracelets. It is in connection with the so-called coarse simple violence. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If you make a serious assault, you get the opportunity to get rid of community service. After all, that is what the Minister of Justice has proposed to do in prison instead of community service. It costs some money, because it means that more people are going to jail, and that is why money has been set off on the Finance Act for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163757	But today, with the legislation we have, it is a concrete assessment by the courts: is community service something that is beneficial, appropriate in the present situation, also in relation to the sense of justice, for example.? That is a possibility that will be removed from the courts now. We simply want to restrict the powers of the judiciary and the possibility of taking a position on the specific situation. This will also mean that situations will arise and there are very few situations we are talking about here, where the kind of cases we are talking about here will lead to community service where it makes sense. But we want to deprive the courts of the opportunity to say in the specific situation: here it makes sense; here it may mean that there is a greater likelihood that after punishment this person will not commit crime again. I just think it is a pity that the government wants to go in and block the best legal policy, that is to say the legal policy that will give the least possible crime in the future, and hence the least possible victims in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163855	Now this is primarily about the victim; it is about the victim's sense of justice. There we have just seen some pretty violent assaults, i.e. what is called gross simple violence... pretty rough assaults... where you've gotten away with community service. This is the gross part that we are now saying should be given prison rather than community service. We think this is fair, even to the victims who may be left with an outrage of justice if it is not severely affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163919	Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163922	Thank you, and congratulations to the rapporteur with the rapporteur's position. Now, of course, I have had the pleasure of asking questions to the Liberal Alliance's financial rapporteur a little earlier today, and no one was condoned. It was the liberal flag that was held high and there was a desire for tax relief and tax cuts of 23 billion were presented. kr. Until 2025. So my brief and clear question to the Conservative People's Party's rapporteur is this: is it still the government's ambition to give tax relief, and is it still the government's ambition to have a development in public spending that is lower than the demographic move?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906163958	Thank you, and I will say that it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted afterwards. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164002	I can speak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, not on behalf of the entire government. It is clearly conservative policy that we should have a lower tax burden in Denmark. We have the world's largest public sector and we do not think it should be a law of nature that we should continue to have it. So if the questioner asks directly whether the Conservative People's Party wants tax cuts, then the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164023	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164025	That was a nice fresh answer, and the question is: what about public consumption? Now we see that the Prime Minister is doing a lot of advertising campaigns these days, when we can see that he is practically trying to jump out as if he were a socialist. The truth is quite different, namely that, unfortunately, public consumption is increasing at a speed, so that every time there are two elderly people who need care, yes, there is almost only money for one of them. So the question is: will the Conservative People's Party then just be happy and bold to stand up to the goal of having a smaller number in the public sector for example. To take care of us older?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164105	Now it happens that under the former S-led government there were 14 000 fewer public employees, but I think that is a good development. After all, the public sector is not supposed to increase. This is not our ambition as a party. We have an ambition for the public sector to be relatively smaller in size, which means that we must have more growth in the private sector so that the public sector will relatively fill less, and thus we must also be able to gradually reduce the tax burden. That is our ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164132	Thank you for that, and then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, and then it is Mr Karin Gaardsted. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164138	Thank you. I would like to talk about the objectives of the Conservatives in the transport sector, and this is, of course, about green cars. There is no doubt that we Social Democrats want to promote the number of green cars in Denmark in the coming years. My question to the rapporteur is therefore whether the rapporteur can put some words on what the Conservatives' objective is for the transport sector. After all, Mrs Abildgaard has been out in the media talking very much about green cars, and so I would like to know whether the rapporteur could put a figure on it, i.e. whether we could find out a little more about what the Conservatives' objective is in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164239	We clearly have an ambition that there will be more green cars on the street. We made a deal, among other things. with the Social Democratic Party to lower registration fees in order to drive some more electric cars onto the Danish roads. We have not succeeded very well, we have to acknowledge that, since it is a common recognition, and that is why we also need to look at how we are getting even more cars on the streets. I will not stand here and promise that there will be 500,000 cars by 2030 without having funding in place, but I just want to promise that we will at least work positively and constructively to get even more electric cars on the street. We should just do it wisely, because the easiest thing in the world is to say that now there should be no registration fee, but is that the right way to go? Or that you can give a cash grant of 50,000 kroner. per electric car being sold, but is that the most effective way to go? I've heard a lot of creative suggestions. I'm just saying that we're very constructive about this. Our goal is to get as many electric cars as possible on the street for the least possible grant crowns.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164334	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164336	But you can see a little Norway and see what they're doing there, because there they're actually very, very good at this. Now it is the case that the chairman of the Conservatives, Søren Pape Poulsen, has said that there should be no effort on the green agenda, and I simply think that is so much doubt as to whether the Conservatives are no longer the green watchdog of the government. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what green areas have the Conservatives managed to get through particularly in connection with the draft budget that we are discussing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164417	After all, the financial bill is the government's proposal, and it is a sum of three parties, but it is quite clear that, in relation to climate billions and the initiatives that are in that area, this is something where we are moving in a green direction, and we continue to do so. As I said to the previous questioner, including from the Social Democratic Party, there is nothing changed on the conservative green profile or green agenda. We have exactly the same ambitions that we have had all along. What the Minister for Justice was saying was that now we are also beginning to talk about some other areas, but nothing has changed in our climate agenda or climate policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164451	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, and then it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164459	Thank you for your speech and congratulations on your debut. I would also say that if this question is one that cannot be answered immediately, it is quite fine. Then I'll have to look into it elsewhere. I was actually inspired by an article I read this morning in Jyllands-Posten. For a few weeks there has been a debate about what is called parish council policy and whether one can afford to create good conditions for the area in which one is elected. There have then been politicians, among others. the rapporteur's own colleague, the Minister for Industry, who has been impressively open to criticism and has said: I have got something there and there in connection with the financial laws. You have every right to do that. I am not going to say what is right or wrong, but since I have no experience of sitting in a government-led party, I would like to ask the rapporteur: how is this distribution going to take place? I think that there are many Danes who are very puzzled by myself, including that the small amounts that are relatively involved are not to be found in such a draft budget. Why can't it be seen? It used to be. This year, you can't see it. How does it work?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164614	Thank you for the question. How they sit and line over in the Ministry of Finance and how the various items are distributed, I am simply not wise enough to answer. I can answer the first question put by the questioner, namely whether priority should be given to local projects. I think you certainly can. There are many small projects that would otherwise be forgotten, and there I think it is important that if you are elected in an area, or if you have some cases that you are particularly passionate about, you also have the opportunity to put it on the agenda politically. I guess that's why we're sitting here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164642	Indeed, I think that the openness shown by the Minister for Industry is very commendable, and there is also a Leftman who has been very open about why he has done so. Finally, my question will just be whether the rapporteur thinks that we should mark exactly what it is used for in the financial bill. It's been customary in the past. Does the rapporteur have a position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164702	I can't answer that. The question of how they deal with this in the Ministry of Finance, I think, should be asked about the Minister for Finance or ask a written question to the Ministry of Finance. Because then you can start to mark a lot of things: who was it who meant it, and who was it who said it? After all, it is the sum of several inputs from three different parties that become the financial law play.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164720	Thank you. Still try not to mention ministers by names, but just by their office. Here you go, Mrs. Lea Wermelin. I'll say it's Mrs. Josephine Fock after.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164729	I would like to follow up on some of the points raised by my fellow party members, namely the annoyance that we have, that the Conservatives are releasing the green ambitions. Now that we have this draft Finance Bill, climate wiseman Peter Birch Sørensen, who is the chairman of the Climate Council and professor of economics at the University of Copenhagen, has come out to say that what lies in the draft Finance Act, of which the Conservatives are part, is far from fulfilling the Danish climate commitments. So I really just want to hear the Conservatives, whether you're satisfied or whether there's more money on the table to make the climate plan that's about to be negotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164822	I do not think we will be satisfied until Denmark is 100%. CO2 So if that's the question, the answer is no. But if the question is whether we are satisfied that we have made a sensible proposal here together in the government, then the answer is yes. We are getting a long way in relation to the energy agreement that has been made, where we reach 55%. renewable energy by 2030, and that is actually a higher percentage than the ambition that we had fought into the government base when we entered the government. But of course we're not there, because we're not there until 2050, where we're 100 percent. Fossil-free. So this is a fight that we fight every day, and it goes on, of course, and we are still as ambitious as we have always been. It is then the third rapporteur who is asking the same question, but there is nothing new in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164905	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164906	The reason I ask the question again is that the Conservatives say that they want to be very ambitious, but when the proposal that lies is not ambitious, we ask for it. And it is not just us who say that, because the director of the Concito has also been out to say that it is at most a kind of starter help, that is, starter help to get started in meeting Denmark's climate commitments. It is not, of course, a question of whether we are going to achieve it or how wonderful it is that we can be ambitious, because we have to put forward some plans and some funding which then means that we are going to achieve it, and that is what I am asking. How green is this Finance Act that the Conservatives have put on the table? Those who understand it say it is not very green, so what is the Conservatives' assessment of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906164947	There will be a climate play here later this autumn, and then you have to judge by it, i.e. how green it is. I think that a climate billion is a very good idea to move forward. At the same time, we have contributed a lot of money to the energy sector in connection with the energy agreement, which actually drives a development towards electrification of Denmark, because we remove some taxes, we remove the PSO and we build some offshore wind farms. So we're on our way. Then, of course, you might want it to go faster, but we must also do so at a rate where it will not be very much more expensive to be a Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906165020	Thank you for that and then there are no more questions for the rapporteur. We are moving forward, and that is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906165046	Thank you for the floor. With today's budget negotiations, a new parliamentary year is being kicked so small. In the draft Finance Act for 2019 and the coming years, the Government has set aside 25 million. kr. to raise knowledge about the Kingdom community, 15 million. kr. to the cultural sector, aimed at initiatives in relation to Greenland and the Faroe Islands and at 2 million. kr. in relation to an information campaign on legal orphans in Greenland. This is very positive, and it is all three new actions in areas for which Inuit Ataqatigiit has asked for stronger action. As part of the upcoming negotiations that we are embarking on, Inuit Ataqatigiit attaches particular importance to the forthcoming stake pool negotiations, and from our side a lot of effort will be put into contributing solutions to vulnerable citizens from Greenland, as this group is growing strongly. Over the past several months we have been around Denmark and have visited places, shelters, socio-economic companies and much more to help take the pulse of the reality experienced by many Greenlanders in Denmark. Although the proportion of Greenlanders in employment and housing is by far the largest, we also know that there is a constant need to focus on vulnerable Greenlanders who are over-represented in social statistics. We have from Inuit Ataqatigiits side in the Folketing changed focus from strengthening social policy offers to looking at what sort of measures can lift the middle group out of social poverty and into the labour market. While there have never been so many in work in Denmark before, at least as I have heard, the proportion of Greenlanders among those who can work is only about 50%. We want to help improve this, and that is why increasing the employment of Greenlanders will also be an overshadowing issue for us in the forthcoming wage-pool negotiations. In the 2019 Finance Law negotiations, Inuit Ataqatigiit will focus on three specific areas: continued strengthening of justice, continued efforts to increase business development and to increase knowledge in Denmark about modern Greenland. For the financial law negotiations, strengthening justice will continue to be a priority for Inuit Ataqatigiit. Last year we managed to allocate 40 million. kr. over the next four years to a boost in the justice area in Greenland; it is very much needed, but the need is also much greater, and we know that there are several areas that are not adequately funded today. Naalakkersuisut recently published the strategy, or the assault package, as it is also called, Killiliisa to eliminate sexual abuse in Greenland. The police in Greenland and justice also play a very important role here, which is why Naala Suisut has listed a large number of recommendations for us here in the Danish Parliament in the area of justice, and one of the very specific recommendations that there is is is an early handling of reports of sexual abuse. Inuit Ataqatigiit helped to secure a new children's law in Greenland, which made it compulsory for social services in Greenland to act on a concern within 24 hours after notification has been received. This should, of course, also apply to the police, if we are asked, and if you ask Naalaksuisut, and therefore Inuit Ataqatigiit will work to ensure that the police in Greenland are given some additional means to ensure an even faster handling of reports of sexual abuse against children. Here it should be stressed that the police in Greenland are generally recognised for their handling of cases, but when we talk about personal crime in Greenland, we in Greenland have 34 times more cases of personal crime than there are here in Denmark. Another focus area is that there should be firm and secure video interrogation rooms for children who have experienced sexual abuse. The children's house Saaffik, which has been a matter for Inuit Ataqatigiit, does not have the same function as a normal children's house, for example. Here in Denmark. Neither at national or local level is there a place where the children can be questioned, one has to find a place from time to time where one can then interrogate the children, and that is, despite the fact that the police in Greenland have trained several people to conduct video interviews, and that there is actually very good experience with it. In a modern society of law, security should be paramount; it should also be very much in relation to a vulnerable group such as children who have experienced sexual abuse. Finally, in the area of justice, there is a need to secure the means of operation of the national defender, which corresponds to the requirements that we have made through the legislation. The budgetary resources allocated to the operation simply do not correspond to the requirements of the legislation. I think that is important to emphasise. The national defence office is still new, and it is positive that funds have been found to train more defenders, but it is also important that we ensure that operations are linked. A realistic estimate from the national defender himself, an estimate that we have also calculated, is that the operation should be increased by 1 million. kr. annual in order to meet the obligations laid down in the legislation. In addition, there is also a need to provide some funding for ongoing training, so that we constantly ensure that we have a proper team of defenders in Greenland. In 2013, Naala Suisut and the government presented a joint report on how barriers to industrial development in Greenland can be removed. Here from the Folketing. And in the years to come, a large number of legislative things have come up which have removed some barriers, or at least some improvements have been made in this area. This means that the opportunities for business and business start-ups for business development have been improved over the last few years. Among other things: there is a new corporate law from 1 July 2018, and although it is positive, it is important that we do not stop here. We constantly see that the updating of EU rules and also of laws here in the Folketing, which would otherwise help to promote the professions and to promote society, is not taking place in time, and that it does not happen at the same pace as it does in relation to Danish laws. For example: I can mention the veterinary law, which prevents Greenland from exporting even more goods, Greenlandic products, for sale outside Greenland and from selling Greenlandic products to Greenlandic citizens, which is a really boring obstacle. As it is today, you can export 10 kg, but if you want a business out of it, it can be really hard to make things stick together. Naalakkersuisut in Greenland has been talking for many years about taking home the veterinary sector, but unfortunately it has remained the talk, and therefore we think it is important that we here too from the Danish Parliament call on both the Naalakkersuisut, but to a large extent the government to look at what we can do from here to prioritize a joint effort to increase business development in Greenland, by removing some of these regulatory barriers. It must be in everyone's interest to ensure a better economy in Greenland. We have a great deal of responsibility even in Greenland, but we can also help to remove some of these barriers here in the Folketing. One of the measures supported by the government in the field of industry is: NUKIGA, which means our strength and which focuses on both industry and culture. It is obvious that some of the money that could be secured in this area could help to support NUKIGA's work to help develop Greenland's business community. So for knowledge about Greenland in Denmark: It is really positive that the government in its Finance Bill proposes that more knowledge should be ensured in Denmark about Greenland, as well as prioritising cultural initiatives in relation to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. At Inuit Ataqatigiit, we believe that an understanding of each other's particular cultures helps to strengthen knowledge and it creates respect and it reduces the prejudices that may exist in the population. We are therefore also pleased with the initiatives that have already been taken. In the same way, we also look forward to Operation Daywork's focus on Greenland, which one would like to focus on here on 7 November. If we want to get more people in Denmark to get modern Greenland under the skin, it is that knowledge is given from a young Greenlander to a young Dane, a very good place to start. An opportunity to increase existing knowledge about Greenland is among other things. by expanding school services in the Greenland House around Denmark. There they are doing a very good job in the school service today, and if we are helping to strengthen the work they are doing, we can ensure that even more Danish children will know something about the conditions in Greenland, including the modern Greenlandic society. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170048	Thank you. Then we have some questioners. At least there's one. Mrs. Karin Gaardsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170107	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. We have just been to Greenland together with the Greenland Committee on a very interesting journey up in the area around Uummannaq and then down in Nuuk. Down in Nuuk we talked among others. with the Commissioner, and we also talked about some of the points made by the rapporteur in his speech here. How does the rapporteur view the fact that we in the Greenland Committee are beginning to work to remove some areas of work from the police in order to free up resources to make a greater effort towards sexual abuse?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170149	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170150	Thank you very much for the question. I think it must be up to the police to assess what the real need is and whether one task can be replaced with another. I think that's better. The police have a bigger insight than we do. I would like to say that I am quite positive about the fact that we have some of the civilian tasks that are currently in the hands of the police, because they are the state authority, which is present almost everywhere except in many villages where we lack municipal officials, to some Greenlandic authorities closer to the citizens. These are some very bourgeois things, for example. coming to the police and being interrogated when you're having a child together, today is going on in a very old-fashioned way. It would be much better for everyone, not least for the citizen, if it were solved by a Greenlandic authority in a better environment and in a more modern way. I fully agree with the questioner on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170248	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170249	This was at least one of the ways in which a little police capacity could be released to be used on something related to crime, rather than on civil matters. So I hope we can work on that. Then the rapporteur also mentioned something about the pool of rates. There was one example, but would the rapporteur just try to unfold a little more, what the rapporteur's party is thinking about the pool of rates?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170321	Thank you very much. I would just like to put two words on this with the police, because if I want to point out some new tasks that they have to solve, among other things. I think it is also important to ensure that there is a management priority, because if there is a natural disaster, it is of course up to the police themselves to decide exactly how they are going to fulfil that task. Let's get back to the bet pool thing. We are looking at the very violent figures that are in Greenland. As we know that many people move from Greenland to Denmark, there are also many who have social challenges in their luggage. And the very high figures in the social field in relation to violence or sexual abuse or other things in Greenland are also included. We do not actually know exactly what group is moving here, but our assumption is that many of them also have very many social problems when they come here. We see some pretty violent cases when, for example, we see them. are around in shelters and in bedrooms where, for example, there are. death due to drug abuse. So things are getting more and more violent than we saw them just a few years ago, and we find that worrying. We would like to help focus on this, and we would also like to propose some solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170438	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170446	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your productive cooperation. I think that the more time goes by with IA's rapporteur in the Folketing, the more joy one gets by knowing Greenland, but also by knowing some politicians who then systematically work for improvements for their country and their people when they are here in the Folketing. But I still think there are some things that one might ask about being better, but also whether the Greenlanders themselves could do better. First of all, I'd like to hear about the pay differences in the police. Questions have been raised about them, but how does the rapporteur see the real solution to this issue? And if so, how can we, as politicians, promote a solution? After all, this is an issue that we also have to discuss here, or at least among the employers' organisations and the trade unions representing the people. Because it is untenable that there is a difference between doing the same job. When you come out to a murder or violence for that matter it cannot be that one cop should have one salary and the other cop should have another salary when you have to do the same hard work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170603	Thank you very much for the questions and also thank you for the cooperation and the nice words. I am also very pleased with the cooperation that exists. I have a meeting with the Minister for Justice here very soon, and I understand that a working group has been set up to look at these wage differences. I think that is a good thing. But it can be said that it is, in fact, knowledge that we already have. I would like to see some Greenlandic authorities, the police association in Greenland, also involved in the work. They are the ones who know about it in everyday life. There is this example, which I get again and again from Greenland police officers, that when they get into a police car in Greenland and move out and have a colleague with who has been trained in Denmark it may also be a Greenlander who has trained in Denmark and who has chosen to move back to Greenland. That is not fair, it goes without saying, and we need to find practical solutions which, in particular, the police association seems sensible. But yes, there is a need here too for us to be politically involved in promoting a solution, and of course I think that should also be the case for some professionals and some professional organisations. But we are really waiting for and have been doing so for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170723	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170724	Yes, because we agree that it is a basic principle of cooperation between Greenland and Denmark that we should be equal, and that is why I think we should work for it. Another issue, which is mostly the Greenlander's, is the great inequality that exists in Greenlandic society. What ideas does the rapporteur have about the great inequality, which is not healthy for a society in which one of the prisoners almost lives on natural economy and the best-off has a very, very large salary, even in relation to Denmark? After all, more equality is needed in order for a society to develop, to the best of my knowledge. How can you do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170758	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170759	Thank you. The Greenlandic reality is that it is in fact many times the prisoner who earns very, very good, and that perhaps it is the single mother who does not have a very well paid job, for example. on SIK wages, which have difficulty in making everyday life stick together. Where I think it really hurts is that it also affects children, and it is children who live in poverty, and it is children who live in hunger in Greenland. Now I have brought out many of these difficult social problems that we have in Greenland, but it is also because I think we have to do something about it, and the primary responsibility lies in Greenland. And if you look at the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the primary responsibility is also the responsibility of the parents. So the parents have a really important role to play in securing this. However, we have to ensure that the wage level looks reasonable in general in Greenland. I know that when you get a civil servant's pension after working many, many years in Greenland, you almost get twice as much when you choose to move to Denmark because the wage level in Denmark is generally higher. So it's a discussion that we have to take in Greenland: How can we help to ensure that the money we have is, of course, properly distributed, so that everyone has a good life? That is essentially what this is all about, and it is complex. But this is one of the main issues that I also have, although it is a matter of domestic politics in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170922	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has wanted to comment or ask questions. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906170941	Thank you very much. The annual debate on a Finance Act is a time when wishes and demands come on the table, desires to be balanced between the majority in this Chamber, outside stakeholders and the goals and ambitions of the current government at all times. It is the same process in the Folketing as it is in Inatsisartut in Greenland, but the debate in Denmark differs by the fact that the bill of finance reflects the government's political priorities for all state jurisdictions in all three parts of the country. It is a time when I reread the section on the Kingdom community in the government base and take a temperature measurement of how far the government has progressed in the implementation of the objectives. Are the priorities required for the implementation of the government basis ensured? Have the Greenlandic mandates been listened to? And is the government's basis in terms of the final financial law of the parliamentary term going to be reached? Here is my status: In the section on the Kingdom Community in the government base it says, among other things:: The Government will work for a standard on Danish responsibilities in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, which corresponds to the standard in Denmark with the special derogations that can be justified in the Faroese and Greenlandic conditions. Let me say this straight away: the proposed draft budget will not be able to set a Danish standard for the area of justice in Greenland. Last year 10 million were set aside. kr. Annually over 4 years to a pool of justice for Greenland as a special effort aimed at the Greenlandic judiciary. It will require far greater investment from this if the justice system in Greenland is to be at the same level as in the rest of the kingdom. We have the Greenlandic policemen who do not receive the same salary as their Danish colleagues despite the same work and training and, last but not least, the same employer. I see no good argument for Greenland police officers to be discriminated against on their pay and agreement. That time should be over. I regard this as a serious downgrading of an area which can be resolved politically. It is one of the knots that weakens our coexistence in the kingdom. This is a problem which has been repeatedly addressed, both from the speaking chair of the Folketing and from the naalaksuisut in Greenland, but it is not a priority on the part of the government. Last year Greenland finally got a national defender, whom we are all very happy that we have got. The initiative is good and legal certainty has been given a facelift. In Greenland, we are pleased that improvements are finally being made as regards the defence needs of training, further training and counselling • terms recommended by the Legal Commission back in 2004. The recommendations pointed to ensuring legal certainty for the accused in a case, i.e. the principle of equality of arms, so that the prosecution authority and defence should be more equal. However, there is room for few but very significant improvements. There is virtually no funding for the defence of the country. The budget for the post is 2 million. kr., but at least 8 million is needed. kr. annually in order to comply with the requirements of the notice. This means that the national defence officer cannot comply with the guidelines of the Order in order to carry out his duties. The chain's jumped off somewhere. A position as a national defender has been established, but no funds have been secured for the job. I hope that all parties will support ensuring that funds are available for this area. This summer the Greenland Committee was on a committee trip to Ilulissat, Uummannaq and Nuuk. During the trip we were given the opportunity to e.g. to meet the municipal commander in Saattut. The municipality manager is important for the settlement community, as this person is the villager's local civil servant with police authority... a representative of the police and the judiciary. 14 out of 60 villages are without the police representative in the form of a municipal bailiff. For a number of years, initiatives to ensure legal certainty in the Greenlandic settlements have been announced by Inatsisartuts, Naalakssuisuts and the Greenlandic mandates to the Danish Government. There are just 14 settlements that do not have a representative of the law. In the event that a municipal officer is allowed to arrest a person, he has no building or detention for the detention. There are examples that the municipal officer has had to bring a detained person into his own private room and attach him to his radiator with handcuffs. There are also examples that the municipal guard has been approached by a person who wishes to report a criminal offence and where the meeting takes place in the municipal guard's own home, while his own family has to go outside during the interview. The job as a municipal bailiff is a part-time job and is taxed with approx. 6,000 kr. a month. It is therefore the poor salary and working conditions of the municipal bog that make it difficult to recruit new municipal officers. That is why I believe that it is absolutely essential to allocate funds to better conditions for municipal managers. Whether citizens live in a city or in a village, citizens must be able to contact a neutral building. It is fundamental to a legal society. There must also be room for praise. During the last year, the Minister for Finance has invited the North Atlantic mandates to set meetings in the context of the Finance Law negotiations. This initiative has not been seen before, at least in recent times. I'd like to sign for this kindness. In the financial bill, 10 million have been set aside. kr. in 2019 and 5 million; kr. annually until 2022 to strengthen knowledge and community across the Kingdom community. It is my hope that these funds will bring us closer together in the Kingdom community and help to further develop the cultural ties between all three of us unique countries. Last year 10 million were set aside. kr. Annually over 4 years to a pool of improvements in the legal field in Greenland. These are funds that must be distributed to the many requests for improvements to Greenland's judiciary, criminal justice, police and municipal officers. The amount of 10 million kr. Every year for permanent improvements is very optimistic. But after all, these are small steps. A total of 180 million has been set aside. kr. to clean up former military bases in Greenland. This is, of course, not enough in relation to a complete clean-up after the American presence, but it is nevertheless small steps in the right direction. Projects to combat the social exposure of Greenlanders in Denmark have also been taken into account in the recent wage-pool settlements. These funds are of great importance to many Greenlandic citizens who are having a difficult time. In the run-up to future wage-pooling, I would once again recommend that the Greenland Houses in Denmark be consulted and that the conciliation parties not least hear their proposals for concrete projects to ensure better action for socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. Specifically, there is a broad desire among the Greenlandic Houses to make the inclusion funds for the Greenlandic Houses permanent. These funds are crucial for several different initiatives in the Greenland Houses. Some of the government's steps in the field of finance during this parliamentary term are great, others are small steps, but this is an indication that Greenland's wishes are being listened to. The government should be commended for this. But we should not be satisfied with the legal area in Greenland, with the proposed Finance Act, will not get the same standard as in the rest of the Kingdom. From here we have to ask the Minister for Finance to listen to the feedback that has now come from Members from Greenland. I look forward to a constructive dialogue and a debate where we can meet on some solutions for the good of the Kingdom Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906171848	Thank you. I have to say before we go over to some questioners that we're going to go through without a meal break. I think it can be done without it being far too late as it looks. Otherwise, we'll have to change it. But I don't think it's gonna be possible. So far, there are two questioners. It is first Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906171929	Thanks for the speech. We are from Inuit Ataqatigiit, not surprisingly, perhaps, very much in agreement that there is a need to strengthen the justice area. This really is an area that we have been fighting for from Greenland for many, many years, but where it has also been very sluggish to achieve some results. That's why we're really excited about this 40 million-dollar pool of justice. kr., which has been deposed. One thing that we in the IA have noticed is that if there are to be municipal officers everywhere, you also have to look at whether we might have two municipal officers instead of just one municipal guard in some of the settlements. And we're really glad that it's kind of opened up to this pool of justice. So we have great hopes that something will actually happen and fewer settlements will be missing a municipal bailiff in the future. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what other areas are there in the area of justice that need a special focus on our part?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172033	Thank you for the question. Yeah, we really appreciate the extra 40 million. kr. over a four-year period, which the government has set aside for improvements in the area of justice, but that being said, we have also pointed out some areas that we absolutely believe need economic and political support to ensure that conditions are able to live with both parties, both Greenland and Denmark. I mentioned the fact that the differences in salaries in the police are an important area which the Kingdom community cannot be aware of still going on. The builders have a very, very important role in society. I also know that the settlements are very willing to cooperate across, as we see with the village council chairmen, who also work with two settlements at a time. I like that form, and I also have a feeling at home that this is the way to work in the future. I also think it would be absolutely essential to increase legal certainty everywhere in Greenland to ensure that the villagers have as much right to good legal certainty in society as anywhere else. That is where I think it is the most important place to start working to ensure that the right funds are made available for it. Precisely because there is a lack of funds for the settlements, a large proportion of the population is cut off from legal certainty, and that is something that has been going on over all the years, and so far we have not seen a solution from the governments in both places. I think it's a good place to get started and see that there's really something here that can move.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172219	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172220	Thank you very much. When the Danish Parliament's Greenland Committee was in Greenland not long ago, we spoke among other things. with the chief police officer, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also said. I would like to hear: what is the rapporteur's position on this question as to whether Greenland should take on various civilian tasks? Does it not really make sense that some citizen-centred areas, such as having your car reregistered, are solved in one place, rather than going to several different places, as things are today? It's the same thing when you have to stand by a fatherhood, so it's going on in a very old-fashioned way today. Couldn't we do better by taking it home?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172305	Here you go, Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172306	I think it is important to have a legal system worthy of the kingdom, whether Greenland moves towards independence or not. As long as we belong together, as long as jurisdiction is a place, one should have relationships worthy of the state of Denmark. We cannot say that as far as the task of the police in Greenland is concerned. The police in Greenland work with civil cases and with many cases that Danish police down here do not work with, and they spend a lot of time and resources in that area. I certainly think that modernising the police's tasks in Greenland is very good to work with to ensure that legal certainty is raised everywhere and that it can be used out there. I certainly believe that the Chief of Police in Greenland has some good topics that he can bring to the National Police Commissioner and then to the Minister of Justice to ensure that the things for improvement that are very politically supported at home get political support from below.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172413	Thank you. There aren't any more rapporteurs, and then it's sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172417	Thank you for that and I would like to thank you for last. It was a very educational visit we had in Greenland. I was so happy to be up there because we just met a municipal bailiff who was of age and seemed to be in control of his tasks, and a settlement that so excited with energy and desire to develop itself and collaborate with all sorts and build up, and there were construction tasks, and there were companies going on. I thought that was a good mood. Of course, I was also happy with the 82-year-old fisherman who went out in his dinghy and pulled for 6,000 kroner. Fish up in one night. I understand he's not gonna stand in a fish factory and make maybe 1,000 kroner. in the quadruple time. But there is another thing, and that was the hospital we visited. I think it is untenable for doctors to come for two and three months, and nurses may be visiting during the same period. Because that does not, of course, provide a close link with those patients and a continuity of work, and I think that is a little problematic. Does the rapporteur have a proposal on how to do this better?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172525	As the questioner also refers to, there are very large differences in our living conditions in Greenland, whether you come from a village or a city, or depending on what you are working with everyday. There are great differences, certainly. In the hospital we visited, Uummannaq Hospital, we were given the opportunity to talk to the doctor and nurses who are responsible for the hospital and to whom the questioner refers, there are some doctors or nurses who are there for 2 months or 3 months. There are some who are there for just a few days, there are some who are there for just 10 days and then leave again. It is in expensive sentences that we pay to ensure that people have a doctor who can take care of them in case they need it. When there is a medical shortage in Denmark or in the Nordic countries for that matter, the medical shortage in Greenland is twice as severe. I certainly believe that we in Greenland are about to talk to the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs about opening the way for more foreign doctors and nurses to look for work in Greenland under special conditions, where you look at foreigners with a little different glasses than you do from down here, if we want to take into account that the population gets the services they need, in the form of doctors and nurses, also from other countries. That is one of the things I believe can help solve it, a more permanent solution than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172654	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172655	Thank you. I have sometimes wondered whether we should not do a compulsory community service for anyone who gets an academic education in Denmark, for example. Doctors. They should then have a duty to work in Denmark for three years, and there we could then take one year out and say that they should at least also have an experience in Greenland. Then maybe they'll be happy with Greenland and stay there. That could be an option. One of the things I was very sad to see was the people we met from the two settlements who have been exposed to this tidal wave and who now have no home and not all have had a solution. I know that we can only support it by saying that there is a little humanitarian aid here. But what is the solution for these people, and when does the rapporteur think that the Greenlandic Government and the municipalities are making sure that those people get a decent life and a normal life again?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172746	Yes, the idea that everyone should have a stay in Greenland, I very much support it. I also think that the more people know about each other's countries, the more understanding there is among the population, but also among politicians in general, I would say. The humanitarian effort in Uummannaq and for the Tsunami victims in Nuugaatsiaq and in Illorsuit has been crucial to our work. The political work, economic work and humanitarian work in Greenland have filled a great deal, and that is absolutely right. I think that within that year the municipalities, the self-government and the private citizen helped to lift a great deal of work in Greenland. You still have some loose ends in terms of making everyone happy, and it's still gone a difficult process, but securing the roof over your head for everyone has been very important. The fact that they can get their fishing gear back is very important and that people have something to work with is also very important. The basics that are believed to be important to help these people, these victims, have been very important. But I do not think we have yet reached that point, either in the municipalities or in the Inatsisartut and the government, where we say that everyone is now satisfied. There is still a good deal to be done, and I certainly believe that we will solve it as well as we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172910	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906172914	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for last in Greenland, which was quite fantastic. I was also in the village of Saattut and saw how well it worked. Everything worked really well there, and so did the municipal director. However, I would just like to return to what the rapporteur said in his rapporteur's speech about the fact that there is still a shortage of municipal officers in 14 villages. I would like to know why they are still missing. Last year, or last year, we set the salary up to, I think, 6,000 kroner. I would like to know whether it is still the salary or whether it is some other factor which means that in the 14 settlements we have not been able to find a municipal bailiff at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906173011	You have to think about the fact that when you live in a village, you know everyone, and if you're not close to everyone, you're a distant relative of them. When you work as a municipal bailiff and have to work with a person who is reported for a criminal act, it may often be your own uncle or your own cousin or whatever it may be. Having to talk to him and interrogate him on behalf of the police in his own home is not a very clever solution. It is incredibly important such a small place that you have a neutral place where you can sit down and talk things through until the police come, or until the police from the city tell you what the next action should be. I don't think you can live on $6,000. a month, even if it's just a side job. It is difficult to get someone to carry out the task of having someone who has done a criminal act spend the night in one's own home chained to one's radiator, as it does not appeal to many. I certainly think it would be quite natural to have a neutral place, which belongs to the Ministry of Justice, and there could be either detention, conversations with him or her, or notification of the person. I think that would be absolutely basic, that is to say that you have it as the framework condition for the municipal manager in addition to the salary.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906173142	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906173145	Thank you for your answer. Now there are also municipal officers who use places other than their own home. I can see the problem in that, but there is also sometimes the possibility of using a room down at the fish factory or whatever it is. I also think it is cross-border to have people who may have committed a crime in their own home. However, I would like to go straight to something else, and that is what the rapporteur mentioned in his rapporteur's speech, about the Finance Act here, where there are some things that are big steps, while other things are small steps. What are the small steps?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906173226	I think that the small steps are, we have begun to be invited to set meetings, which I think are really, very good, and this has also resulted in some funds being set aside to ensure that the Greenlandic citizens in Denmark receive the attention they are entitled to in the form of the pool funds. The other parties support, inter alia: It is also up to the work to be done for the Greenlanders who are not doing very well in Denmark. Small steps are also that the 10 million. kr. Every year in the area of justice is really, really important. That is far from the solution, and it is far from enough to ensure that justice is at the same level as the rest of the Kingdom, but it is small steps in the right direction. I also certainly think that the various improvements proposed by the government are also small steps. Until today, we have not seen the means set aside to enable the standard in Greenland to match jurisdictions in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906173336	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then I can see that no one else wishes to speak from the floor of the Folketing, at least because our two colleagues from the Faroe Islands are not here. This means that we have enriched and inspired the Minister of Parliament for 71⁄2 hours, and then his opportunity is now to give something in return. He gets 1⁄2 hour for the presentation and then 1 hour for the debate. So I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906173412	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for a debate which is almost as calm as the Chamber is at the moment. Now this is probably the 21st Finance Act that I am involved in discussing, and of course it may be the age that is playing a trick, but I do not remember a financial bill debate that has been as calm and peaceful as today. And maybe it is because there isn't much to discuss. Danish economy is strong. Employment is historically high and unemployment is low. We have seen solid growth over several years and we expect it to continue over the coming years. And when things are going well, one can actually forget that it was only 40 years ago that Denmark was somewhat closer to being the Nordic response to Greece than the Nordic response to Luxembourg. At that time, it was a time of rising debt and high balance of payments deficits, and we had difficulty lifting the economy. Fortunately, there is no Danish economy at all today. In fact, since the 1990s we have seen a fall in unemployment while at the same time public debt has been significantly reduced. Our healthy economy is largely due to the fact that we have implemented reforms. First of all, structural reforms have made it possible to make such progress, and without the reforms the recovery would already be dampened by a lack of labour. It is in particular the welfare agreement and the agreement on later withdrawal that increases the supply of work in these years. Experience so far with the increase in the early retirement age shows that the persons concerned are working largely unabated until their new retirement age. It's a huge success. Without these reforms, public finances would be significantly weakened as we live longer and are healthier for longer and longer. Today, Danish economy is in a boom. GDP growth was 2.3 per cent. in 2017, and GDP growth is estimated at just below 2%. This year and next year. Investment is broadly based, and both private consumption, investment and exports contribute to growth. Employment is also higher than ever before. More than 145,000 private jobs have been created since 2015, and employment is estimated to increase further this year and the years ahead. At the same time, the recovery has been broadly based across the country, and the employment rate has increased mostly in the municipalities of Jutland. Unemployment is falling even so much that we now have the lowest unemployment rate for 9 years. And the number of people with public support continues to fall. From the second quarter of 2015 to the first quarter of this year, the number of publicly supported persons has fallen by approx. 55,000 people. This is the lowest number of people in the public sector for 11 years. That's a good thing. When the Danish economy is experiencing a boom with increasing pressure on the labour market, it is also important that we adapt economic policy to the economic conditions that exist. No one has an interest in overheating the Danish economy. Our fiscal policy and structural policy overall dampen the pressure on capacity in the Danish economy, both up to today and also what is important in the coming years. This also applies to our financial bill for 2019. We are consolidating the economy. We'll keep the framework. We set out some significant priorities that will help make Denmark better for the Danes. I hope that we can all be pleased that the Danish economy is making progress. However, we must also remember that this is a different situation from where we stood in 2015. When the government came into office in 2015, the deficit on the structural balance was 0.5%. of GDP • quite close to the Danish budget law limit. And it was therefore necessary to balance the Danish economy. This is among other things. That is why we extended the existing re-priority contribution to education, education and culture. Since then, both the V government and the VLAK government have been working to consolidate the Danish economy by gradually reducing deficits. Now the government has submitted a draft Finance Act for 2019. And the solid basis we have for what we have created also makes it possible to present a draft budget that is both ambitious and responsible. Some people talk about it being a gift book, and others say that we are spending far too little. And when some are on the one hand criticizing and others are on the other hand criticizing, it is sometimes a sign that one is right in the middle of Danish politics. And I think this shows that we have struck exactly the right balance. It is actually worth emphasising what the proposal actually contains. Indeed, the government continues to organise economic policy after we improve and tighten up public finances. In 2019 we have reduced the structural deficit to only 0.1%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. The government sets out to give particular priority to seven areas: strengthening the welfare, climate, environment and nature, better education and a robust labour market, reversal of funds for education, education and culture, strengthening security, lower taxes and better conditions for business and, last but not least, better coherence across the country. Let me take them one by one: the welfare area is a central priority of the government. It has been so every year, and that is why every year we have allocated more funds to municipalities and regions in the agreements, as opposed to the previous government, which cut into the framework of the municipalities. It is vital for us that the Danes receive a high quality service when the individual citizen needs the community to join. In the spring, the government concluded ambitious agreements which mean that the municipal service framework and health efforts in the regions will be increased by a total of 2.7 billion. kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. With the financial bill, we are giving another 50 million priority to a welfare boost. kr. annual to health, the elderly and the psychiatric community and by 260 million. kr. annual to the children's area. In addition, the funds are included in the rate pool. Out of that pool, the government will target approx. 220 million kr. annual to health. We will, among other things. prioritize overall health reform and strengthen vaccine preparedness and ensure a high quality in the treatment of people with hearing loss. In the area of the elderly, we target 180 million. kr. to help ensure that older citizens have a secure old age with a high quality of life, that we combat loneliness, which unfortunately many elderly people are affected by. In the field of psychiatry, we set aside 100 million. kr. at the top of the 200 million. kr., as we agreed with Danske Regions in the economics agreement. Later this autumn, we will be presenting a comprehensive paper on psychiatry which will focus on citizens with severe mental disorders and on preventing forced admissions and on reducing the use of coercion in treatment, but also taking care of the far too many vulnerable young people who are suffering from poor mental health. In fact, I believe that it is one in four young women between 18 and 26 who themselves believe that they have poor mental health. This is an area in which it is time for us to take action. In the area of children, the Minister for Children and Social Affairs has already presented our new 1,000-day programme, which will help to provide extra help for children in vulnerable and vulnerable families. The government will set aside the 250 million. kr. annual to, inter alia: to strengthen the interaction between daily services, family and health care. We will allocate space in the economy to employ approx. 460 more educators in day care institutions where there are children who have a special need. We prioritize a competence increase to approx. 2,500 pedagogues and 1,000 day carers. There are several party rapporteurs who have mentioned environmental and climate change, that we must act and that we must act now. I don't just agree, I'm already ahead. Together with the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, I made before the summer break the first energy agreement that could bring together the entire Danish Parliament and all the parties, an agreement that shows the way to 50 per cent. renewable energy, an agreement that shows the way that by 2030, on a normal day, we will get a hundred percent green power out of our power outlets, an agreement that lowers the electricity tax for ordinary Danes, an agreement that helps us to replace fossil fuels with electric heating, an agreement that ensures better and more targeted energy efficiency efforts. So with the financial bill, we are putting a green billion on top of the agreement we have made. The air and water must be cleaner, nature and better, and greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced. We have discussed this during the day, and I am sure that we will go into it in greater detail, but I do believe that here is something we must stand together on. The third point is good education and a robust labour market, which is crucial for the Danish economy, both now and in the future. We are placing a framework on the Finance Act in the reserves of 600 million. kr. Annually, and as part of the draft Financial Act 2019, we will present a vocational training package later this autumn. We want out of the 600 million. kr. follow up on the work of the Disruption Council, we will present a university proposal to improve university education, we will increase the amount of free time for young students who, alongside their studies, would like to make an extra effort and make things work together. And then we will present a proposal for international recruitment. Last but not least, the government will also ensure that we maintain fair and equal competition, and that is why we will present concrete initiatives to ensure orderly conditions in the Danish labour market. In addition, we maintain the high ambitions of research and development. We're gonna set off 2.9 billion. kr. in 2019, which is approx. 150 million kr. more than this year, and that means we're setting up to spend 12%. more on public research than just 10 years ago. And then, as some have noticed, we are going to change the re-prioritisation contribution. As I said, in 2015 it was necessary to tighten up the Danish economy. It was necessary to move away from the deficit of 0.5% that the then government had foreseen there would be on public finances. That is why we took responsibility and extended the existing re-priority contribution to education, training and culture. Among other things, it has. We have been able to give priority to a number of new initiatives. In addition to reducing debt, we have increased our efforts in the field of cancer. We have increased the number of officers, and we have strengthened the Danish economy through municipal welfare, just as we have done with the money found in the Finance Act. After having included the funds in general priorities in recent years, we have now decided that from 2022 we will leave the funds in each area. We think that is needed. The fact that the change takes place from 2022 is due to the fact that we are looking into a few years with very limited fiscal room for manoeuvre. This implies a need for decisions not to be taken now to bind a large part of the budgets in 2020 and 2021. Specifically, in the reserve in the Finance Act, we have allocated the resources from the re-prioritisation contribution in the field of education, education and culture, and, most recently, with the preparation of the draft budget for 2022, we will decide on how the reserve will be implemented. One of the things that is really positive is that crime is currently lower than in the past, especially in areas such as burglary and robbery. At the same time, we have strengthened massively with more resources for the police, and the defence has also been given a quite significant boost so that new threats can be addressed. However, there are areas where new forms of crime are gaining ground and threatening our common security. This is true, for example. in the field of financial crime and cybercrime. At the same time, we must note that the threat picture for Denmark is constantly changing. That is why the government has allocated funds for cyber and IT security and for strengthening the police intelligence service, to restrict the use of community services in order to obtain fairer sentences, and then also to implement the reform of the fight against juvenile delinquency agreed just before the summer recess. It has always been a priority for both the V government and the VLAK government that Denmark should be competitive and an easy country to operate in. The Government will therefore, with its draft Finance Act, both ensure lower taxes, charges and fees and improve conditions for business. Overall, the government prioritises 520 million. kr., when the tightening that is for those companies that do not pay their taxes on time is fully phased in. We're gonna put it down, among other things. to reduce the electric heating charge for holiday homes and improve mobility in order to extend the increased transport allowance and extend the possibilities for islanders. We want to reduce the burden on business, including the administrative fee for industrial waste management. Then we will strengthen tourism and we will follow up on the growth teams that have been set up, among other things. in the field of green energy and environmental technology, trade and logistics. The last point I would like to highlight now is the question of strengthening cohesion across Denmark. We have already decided to move state jobs as part of better balance I and better balance II. The government will now allocate funds to a village pool, a broadband pool to be increased to 102 million. kr., and a feasibility study of a fixed link over Kattegat. I think there are many of us who can remember how much the Storebælt link has meant for our perception of distances between parts of the country, and I am sure that if it is possible to create a profitable project around an Kattegat connection, it will in the same way bind Denmark closer together. Last but not least, the government is selling 1.1 billion. kr. towards 2024 for coastal protection, especially on the west coast of Jutland. Well, that's what the government has proposed. Then I would like to say a few words about what else has been said during the day. After all, the Social Democrats have committed something that they call a financial bill this year. I believe that the Social Democratic Party should be pleased that the Consumer Ombudsman is not allowed to go into the political field, because it really does not. So, the only concrete figure you can find is the page number at the bottom of the corner The debate also revealed that the Social Democrats have no idea how to reach 500,000 green cars. How to reach more labour? What is the concrete offer of green conversion? There was nothing there. However, something is clear: it is clear that the 551 free schools in Denmark and the parents who have chosen to send their children to a free school must be hit financially. It is clear that the many small and medium-sized family-owned companies that are in Denmark must be hit economically. And it is also clear that the Social Democratic Party will reverse one of the greatest successes of recent times, namely a better and more specialised health care system. The Socialists have proposed that we should now move knee operations into small units instead of highly specialised departments; back to the times when there were too many misoperations. And just hear what Andreas Rudkøbing, chairman of the Medical Association, said to Danmarks Radio on 21 August: "We are not going back to local hospitals, for they have proven historically to deliver poor quality and to be incredibly ineffective. ▪ The government won't go back, we'll go forward. That is why the government has also allocated funds for better health houses closer to citizens, but it is precisely in order to strengthen those parts of our health care that can work with high quality and at the same time be close to the citizen. At the same time, with the Finance Act, we are placing a reserve for the future health reform to ensure greater coherence and proximity throughout our health services, but at the same time stick to the improvements in quality, efficiency and productivity and, above all, improvement in survival rates that we have seen in recent years. Well, now it doesn't have to be negative all of it. In fact, things are going so well for the Danish economy today that it is too good to be as depressed as the opposition has been, so I would be delighted. First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that the Social Democratic Party has finally tried to make a financial bill that is points for the attempt. And I actually agree with the title "So do good times better for everyone." First of all, it is probably the biggest pat on your shoulder when your political opponent says that the government has done well: make good times better. This is the clearest message that the government has created good times in Denmark, and it is a message that stands in stark contrast to the problems we took over in 2015. We have good times, and I welcome the fact that this is now confirmed by the Social Democratic Party. And then there was an addition: for everyone. I fully agree with that. Since the government came in, the employment rate has increased in all municipalities, not just in some, as it was up to 2015. Nah, there is now progress in 98 out of 98 municipalities when measuring employment growth. All municipalities are involved, all parts of Denmark are experiencing employment growth. Good times for all also mean that we get more people in the working community, and when we have reduced the number of transfer income by 56,000, that means that more people are in the community, and that is actually not only from the point of view of a finance minister, but also from the point of view of the whole human being • something of the strongest that can be done: to get people into the working community. Good times at all times also apply to the many ecologists who have now benefited from the government's increased efforts to help farmers who want to be ecologists. In these years, we are converting significantly more into ecology than the previous government, and over the last two years, an area corresponding to 150 football fields having been converted into ecology every day. In the same way, we have set up to convert 10,000 hectares into untouched nature. That is 20 times more than the previous government had as its ambition in Nature Plan Denmark. The licence payers also get better times when the licence is abolished, of course. And by focusing on Denmark's Radio, we achieve that when the license is transferred to the tax payment, everyone gets a smaller bill... no, not all, because the blacksees are now about to pay. Honestly, I think that's okay, too. Of course, other people than the Social Democratic Party were involved. I would like to thank the Radical Left and the SF for making well-worked and concrete proposals for financial laws, in which we can of course decide whether we agree or disagree with the proposals. I do not agree with the proposals, but thank you anyway. I regret that both parties will either completely or partially remove efforts for a better business environment. I am actually pleased that the Radical Left helped carry the business and entrepreneurial package through last autumn. I'm sorry you guys are setting up to find your funding by removing the pool we set aside. Then it is clear that there was a rather exciting discussion going on between the Alternative and the Enhedslisten, between Mrs Josephine Fock and Mr. Pelle Dragsted. But it was mostly about the post-election period. And I think I'm gonna stick to talking about the time before the election. I would therefore like to look at our two representatives from Greenland, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Mrs Aleqa Hammond. I would like to thank you for the commendation of the tradition of introducing a dialogue on small improvements in Greenland during the course of the Finance Act. However, I do owe it to you to say that the rose does not belong to me. It was my predecessor, the current Minister for Defence, who introduced it, and I have only continued his tradition. But I think that's quite right. Because, like the Greenlandic mandates and the Faroese mandates are part of the Danish Parliament, I also believe that the Greenlandic representatives should be part of the discussions we have on the Finance Act. But, of course, it must be with respect for the situation where both Greenland and the Faroe Islands have their own governments that have their own responsibilities. And that is why we are looking at what we can do about what lies in the scope of cooperation between Denmark and Greenland. I think it is very important that we get a better knowledge of all parts of the community among young people. That is why I very much welcome the proposal to create a greater degree of orientation and cultural understanding between all three parts of the Kingdom community among young people. I also think it is extremely important that, as Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen mentioned, Greenland should be more business-oriented, more business-oriented. There is much that Greenland can do for itself, and I have great respect for the efforts that Greenland is making. I also believe that there is something that we, on our side, should consider, namely what Denmark can help with in the context of the Kingdom Community. Therefore, some discussions are under way, some reflections on how we can create the framework for a better business environment and infrastructure in Greenland. I look forward to discussing this further in the coming months. Mrs Aleqa Hammond raised the issue of legal relations in Greenland a great deal, and there are some things that lie in the agreement between the Danish Ministry of Justice and the government in Greenland. It is difficult for us to get out of the way during a financial bill debate, which is why some of the problems that have been discussed here, including with the bailiffs, are difficult to resolve in connection with the Danish Finance Act. But I look forward to meeting with both the Greenlandic and the Faroese representatives to discuss further what we can do to strengthen the community, the community, I think there should be between all three parts of the kingdom community. Otherwise, there is just to say that the Danish economy is strong. Our only cloud in an otherwise sunny sky is a shortage of labor. And that is why there has been a need to build on the range of reforms that were adopted from 2009 to 2011, reforms that are the reason why we currently have such a marked increase in employment. The government has taken some initiatives. We have also noted that there is no broad appetite in the Folketing for several of the reforms proposed by the government. But it is actually important to say to yourself that there is still more to be done in a wide range of areas. Among other things: With the new Minister for Education and Research's inventory, it has become apparent that our efforts to get young people through the studies more quickly have not only borne the fruit we had expected, but in fact we have gone even further and the study time has been shortened more than expected. In fact, it increases the supply of work in Denmark by almost 2,000 people. We can now see that much more older than expected choose to remain in the labour market, even after they have become pensioners. Some hold back because they are worried about what set-off there will be, whether there really is a financial gain, and we have noted that this is a topic that the Danish People's Party wants to address in the forthcoming Finance Law discussions. A third issue is the whole question of how to ensure that refugees and family reunification are integrated into the labour market. When we took over government power, the proportion of refugees and family members who were assessed as labour market preparation was down to 3%. That's 3%. Now the proportion is more than 70%, and this is because we basically choose to look at people who come here even if they are refugees or family members are a resource and should not be a burden on society. But in the time they are here, they must contribute with the manpower they have. And that means that a lot more people have come to work. We have about doubled the proportion of refugees and family members who have entered employment within three years. We're not in the finish line, but we're better now than in 2015. This all helps to push the Danish economy in a better direction. It strengthens the Danish economy, and it makes us have good times. And it is the government's job that the good times continue. That is why we have tabled an ambitious draft budget which is appropriate to the economic situation. The money fits, and we take good care of the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906180200	Thank you very much to the Minister. Now the rapporteurs and others can roll up their sleeves, because now we have an hour's debate with the Minister on the quiet and unsaid things. The first person to ask for the floor is Mr Seligman. Nicolai Wammen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906180217	It is said that in politics the only praise one can be sure of is self-esteem. It has to be said that the Minister for Finance has performed a masterpiece today. Apparently, there isn't what the government doesn't feel it's solved and done. And I would like to start by saying that together we are delighted that the Danes are doing so well and that we are therefore in a situation where we can make good times better. We are so concerned that it is something that will benefit everyone. When you look at the campaigns that are running, not with the cheerful face of the Minister of Finance, but with the Prime Minister's, you get one example after another that it is well-being in health, in education. It's all very good. But one thing that didn't fit into this 30-minute list of government excellence is that I may have missed it in the ads being run, after all, the fact that with the Finance Act being put forward here, and in the years to come, we will have 10,000 fewer public employees than we have today, at a time when there will be more children and more older people at the same time. I would just like to ask the Minister for Finance in all silence why the Minister for Finance does not consider it appropriate to include it in his speech. And why is it not in the Left's adverts that there will be 10,000 fewer people to care for our children and to care for our elderly, while there will be more children and more elderly people? Is that welfare, I'd like to ask the Minister for Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906180400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906180401	First of all, care must be taken to assess the welfare of the number of public employees, for if a municipality chooses to outsource, for example. The care of the green areas for the Hedeselskabet or others, then there will be fewer public employees, but it will be grassed neither greener nor more tightly cut off. The thing is, it's about the welfare you get. When Mr. Nicolai Wammen then mentions exactly the number 10,000, I am quite sure that you have read Question No. 441 from 10 July 2017, submitted by Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. That is certainly an answer that I have taken forward in this area. This shows that under the assumptions that were asked to count, this is true. If it is the case that it is based on the fact that the progress that will be made is shared equally between wages and purchases, there will not be a decrease, but an increase in the number of public employees, in fact, an increase in full-time employees of 14.300.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906180509	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906180511	What I am dealing with is, in fact, an answer sent by the Minister of Finance on 30 August to the Parliamentary Finance Committee, which clearly shows that there will be 10,000 fewer public employees in the period between now and 2025. I just have to say to the Minister of Finance that you can have all the ads you like in large newspapers with the widest smiles, but in the real world you run incredibly fast in our hospitals. More teachers are needed, and our children also need extra care. If we look at the whole area of the elderly, we see that there will be many more elderly people in the years to come. So will the Minister of Finance not respond to his own answer? That is a series of 104 in the answer given and explaining how better welfare is achieved, the removal of 10,000 public employees, while at the same time getting much more children and older people in the years to come?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906180612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906180613	That answer has been given on the basis of some calculation technical assumptions, and if you look at what the world is like, the calculation technical assumptions can be changed in all 98 municipalities in the country, and the former mayor should know that. Based on the fact that there is a balanced distribution of the increase between purchases and wages, there will be an increase in the number of public employees in the coming years and not a decrease. The fact is that while we have been in government, we have increased the room for manoeuvre of the municipalities. We have increased the service framework of the municipalities and gave them money to cover it: 2 billion. kr. When Mr. Nicolai Wammen's party was in government last time, reducing the municipal service framework by 3.5 billion. kr. At that time, the service and welfare in the municipalities were cut by 3.5 billion. kr. We have added more money, and we will do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906180707	Thank you to the German Social Democrat, sir. Nicolai Wammen, and welcome to Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906180713	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the speech. It is true that there were positive words. But it's also been a fun day. Of course, it's also about numbers when it's a financial law. Well, if the government says that now we have to be fossil-free by 2050, there are some who say that no, it has to be in 2045. If the government says that now we're going to give 1 billion. kr., then I'm quite sure there are some who stand up and say it has to be 2 billion. kr. But what you have to measure is not what you say you want. You have to measure what you've done. I would say that I am very pleased that the Danish People's Party has been a parliamentary basis since we came from having a social democratic government where we saw that there was minus growth in the municipalities. Now we've got a plus growth. We may not have had everything we wanted, but we have, after all, moved in a very positive direction in relation to it. But I'd like to ask you something. When you look at the draft budget here, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, there are a lot of good things that have been put forward. The finance minister said he was ahead. There is probably some of the things that we need to run a little further with to get further along the road the Minister of Finance is heading out. However, one of the things is improved availability for pensioners and retention of seniors in the labour market. It's one of the sticks the government's been betting on. We'd like to sign for that. I would like to ask whether you will also help to ensure that if you give something with one hand, you do not withdraw anything with the other hand, in other words continue to cut the amount of the pension available to you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906180833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906180834	Thank you for your words of praise, and thank you for your cooperation. For the Danish People's Party has helped to implement many of the agreements that make us today have a strong economy. And since the elections, they have helped to implement the agreements that enable us to improve conditions, the framework, in order to provide good services in both regions and municipalities. I think sir... René Christensen, since he is also involved in municipal politics, can confirm that the municipalities have at present had a much better economy than they had in the past. On the question of the rate pool, it is the case that, in 2015, the government entered into an agreement on the rate pool with a broad circle of parties that are today behind the rate pool agreement. The government stands by the agreements we make, including the rate pool. Every year we have given priority to raising the conditions, including for older citizens, to an extent that is significantly greater than that which has been contributed by older people into the rate pool. I believe that, based on the 2019 Finance Act, we will be able to calculate that we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906180944	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906180946	I would also like to start by stating that the Danish People's Party is on the goal of the agreements we have concluded. What is interesting here is also to look at what you really want to do. Because when the government writes that, we are very happy that you have made that you want to improve the availability of pensioners, it is about what it is about purchasing power people have as a pensioner. I have no doubt that we can get out of here. Money has also been set aside for this, i.e. a greater amount of money available. The challenge is, of course, that there may be a conciliation next door, which helps to undermine what you give with one hand, so that people do not have that purchasing power anymore over a period of time. You can try, even if you have a settlement, to get out of the way that is called: how can we stop this erosion? I also believe that other parties, which are part of the rate pool, agree that the purchasing power of pensioners has been significantly reduced since 1994.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181035	If we all make every effort, I can see on the long list that we can reach them. But there may also be some who along the way steal it's just equal, so you know it's time. Here you go, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181045	I'm not going anywhere, I'm gonna stay standing. To Mr. René Christensen: Before 1994, before the initial rate pool agreement, there was no automatic in raising transfer income. It was estimated from year to year whether they could afford to do so. Then they chose to make an agreement where automatics were put in, but took a little out, which should go targeted to various areas which are of high priority, among other things. Because not everyone in the ordinary labour market is going to increase wages equally. And if there was no reduction, it would be possible to see that some in the low-wage sector, with low wage increases, would actually be overtaken by people on transfer incomes. That is why we must, of course, continue to talk about what the conditions and framework are that we must set up for pensioners in the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181137	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181140	On August 12, Berlingske published an article entitled "Kristian Jensen: The Left does not go to the polls on tax breaks. " But when you see what the Minister of Finance is specifically quoted for in the interview, it is: I do not think that we will be discussing more tax cuts on labour income before a parliamentary election. And the Minister of Finance says: "If there will be an opportunity to lower them afterwards, we think it is positive, but I can neither sit here nor later and promise that we have a certain tax relief plan. So my question is really: is what Berlingske's headline on August 12 says right? Is it true that the Left does not go to the polls on tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181237	What I am quoted for is true. My responsibility with regard to an article is what I have said to quote. What journalists choose to put on headlines and other things, they themselves have to face up to. Look, I'm in a government that, since the election, has reduced the tax for more than 20 billion. kr., and at the same time we have improved welfare. For me, there is no contradiction between tax relief and welfare. I think that, if you have a healthy economy and if you make sure you move people from passive support to active employment, you can put the tax down and at the same time be able to afford to improve our health care, improve our primary schools, make it better for the weakest pupils who need a reading boost and improve our kindergartens. I think it's easy to do that. That is why every day I go to work with the goal that we can continue to have a strong economy. I would like the tax to be reduced, and in the draft budget which is here, a small pool has been set aside to facilitate conditions for citizens and business by lowering taxes in this area. What is currently under discussion is what lies in the draft budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181344	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181347	Thank you for your answer. This confirms to me that there is no coverage for the title of the quotes which are then included in the interview. So let me ask in another way, in a positive way: will the Left go to elections on tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181402	The Left will certainly tell you that when we come to a parliamentary election, unless something has happened while I've been sitting in here, but then I think most of the others would have gone if it had happened. It may be that it is just us who have not found out and that Mr. Rune Lund knows there's been an election. But we'll wait until then. There is a lot of good policy in the draft budget and lots of good policy in the government's plans for the autumn, and when we come to the elections, we will also have to talk one after another about what the parties are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181429	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181434	Thank you. I would like to say to the Minister for Finance that it did not seem as if the Minister for Finance had read our proposal for a government programme, which also contains a financing plan in which we are making new investments in society for 238 billion. kr. and the funding is 244 billion. kr. This is among other things. I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposals. kr. 4 years. What I would like to ask is the so-called climate pool, which the Minister for Finance has set aside, of 540 million. kr. It has been said that it is the highest level ever. But what I would like to ask is whether it is new, additional money as agreed at the United Nations, that is, that the money is beyond development aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181536-2	Of course, I also owe it to the alternative to have made not only a financial act, but a programme for almost a whole reform of the public economy in Denmark. It's very comprehensive, shouldn't we just say it? It's much more than just a financial bill. It is a completely different way of thinking about the economy and about the building of society, and perhaps also about a proposal that almost goes beyond my sometimes small comprehension. Mrs Josephine Fock asks about the climate pool. It is true that we increase the climate pool to the highest level ever, but it is included in the 0.7 percent. of GNP, which we are counting on for our development aid. We do so because it is possible to count on it and because our position as a government is that we count on it in development aid, as is possible under international DAC rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181633	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181634	Now it is the case that CARE Denmark says that we can count on 250 million people fleeing from climate change until 2050. And in 2016 alone, there were 23.5 million people fleeing from climate disasters. That is why I am surprised that you go out and pride yourself on the fact that it is the highest amount you have ever set aside for a climate pool when it is precisely not new money, but we take it from development aid. There I find it problematic when we know that the UN has repeatedly said that just when it comes to climate aid, it is absolutely crucial that it is new money, otherwise it will not have anything to do with it. So I think that is problematic and I hope that the government will reconsider its financial bill so that it will really be new money that the government will set aside for climate aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181724	This very government has been truly innovative in generating new means to combat climate change. We did so with the climate investment pool under the Investment Fund for Developing Countries, the IFU; we have done so by making sure that we can gear funds from development aid, from pension funds and from private investors to just doing something more. That is why we are farther ahead with our climate aid than the 540 million. kr. alone. The 540 million. kr. is what you give in direct assistance to others who do it. It comes at the top of the fact that we have the greatest sum ever spent on humanitarian aid in the neighbourhood. So Denmark is actually being invited around the world to talk about what we are doing to be innovative in the climate area and to be innovative in the field of finance, in order to be able to show exactly what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181820	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181822	Thank you for the Minister for Finance's long speech. I can tell you that the finance minister forgot to say that the half billion kroner we take from business we give back to business. We have just created our own business policy, which we think is smarter and better, and which supports more entrepreneurs than government initiatives do. We are also looking forward to the climate negotiations this autumn, and I would like to make a commitment that, just as we helped to raise the government's energy proposals to a really ambitious green level, we will also be ready in the climate field. But what I really want to ask the Minister for Finance is how the Left can make itself continue to use the green harvester for our young people's education. It hits with surgical precision the hardest in rural areas which already find it difficult to get the ends to meet, because it is difficult to get enough young people to apply to youth education, vocational schools and colleges, but also to professional schools. I actually thought it was the exact opposite of what the Left wanted. According to our calculations, if we continue to do so by 2020, we will have cut 6 000 posts in the education and training sector outside the large cities. When is this gonna stop?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906181940	We have actually set out to strengthen the outskirts of the gymnasium. We did so back in 2008, when we introduced a special outskirts gymnasium aximeter, which has helped to ensure that much more of the small educational institutions in those areas where there is a long way between educational institutions could survive. We are currently looking at the cohesion reform of a taximeter structure. Here we have to look at whether we have the right taximeters for the high schools or vocational training courses that have the easiest way to attract young people, and for those who have the most difficulty with it, i.e. those who are the furthest out. So we are fully aware that there may be a problem in relation to some small educational establishments which are far from others and which, if closed, could help to ensure that an entire area does not have a proper educational basis. So we're open to see if there's even more to be done. As far as the re-prioritisation contribution is concerned, we have clearly stated that we believe that from 2022 the funds should remain in each area, so as to give priority to, and to, different priorities, or that, if you choose, you can return the money to the taximeters in the same area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182046	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182047	If you actually do what the Left is proposing, by 2022 you will have saved in the region of 14 per cent. on the country's education, on our future. It may well be that you want to move some money from some of the big high schools to the small colleges, but that doesn't change the fact that you want to save 2%. every year. It is then as a starting point to weaken our education qualitatively, and it is at a time when we never needed to make them stronger. I simply do not understand that this can be the policy of the Left. Therefore, our offer is: We want to add votes to get more foreign employees in and help the Danish companies, and they put money in the Treasury from day one, they come in. If we did it together, couldn't we spend some of that money holding hands during Danish education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182136	It is quite true that the figures show that highly trained labour entering the system of amounts is a clear benefit to public finances. And if there were more of them, we would have stronger public finances. But it is not true that we have just re-priorityd and removed the money from education. We have also refocused on sending money back to education. We have among other things. help finance the new fugitive by having a re-prioritization contribution. What we are now proposing, namely that vocational training be taken up, is one of them. It is also something that comes from a re-prioritisation contribution. That's why you can't do the math that Mr. Martin Lidegaard tries to do where one only looks at what the re-priority contribution takes from the programmes, but does not look at what the re-priority contribution also adds to the programmes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182226	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182230	After all, it must be assumed that the educational institutions around the country and the educational leaders are simply slow to grasp, because they do not understand the region of gifts that has been poured down on them in recent years; they do not understand that they are actually getting as much back as they have to save over and over again. That is almost what the Minister of Finance is supposed to say. If you subtract a little, add a little, etc., and if we look specifically at vocational training, then last year alone they should cut 100 million. kr. net after a little back and forth • 100 million. kr. It's just an example. At the professional high schools, 1,200 years' work will be cut. How is it that we are talking about today and not 2015 that you want to continue this when everyone says it's so important, including the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182356	You just cannot separate the two things, I must say to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. The reason we introduced the re-priority contribution was because we took over an economy that wasn't related, an economy that, when we looked at the figures, wasn't just the 0.5 in deficit that the then S-government had estimated in May, but was actually 0.7 in minus when we did the calculation in August 2015. So it was an economy that wasn't connected and had to be prioritised. It is true that the education sector has been required to deliver on a common priority. Money has also come back to the education sector. There is. Alongside that, we have drawn up a tripartite agreement which promises post-training courses of 2.5 billion. kr., but I would like to stand by the goal that we have also chosen to spend some of the funds from the re-priority contribution to getting better cancer treatment in Denmark, so we get a higher survival rate, to get more officers instead of the former Social Democratic led government, where we got fewer officers in Denmark, because we think that is also important welfare in Denmark, namely that we have a good cancer treatment, and that we have a police force that can solve the tasks we expect from them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182509	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182511	The Minister of Finance keeps talking as if there were no choice in 2015 but to do this. That is simply not true. The Minister for Finance will have to bear in mind that these are political priorities. The government has given priority to spending 20 billion. kr. (i) tax reductions, while cutting 4 billion. kr. In the field of education. This has been given priority. It has been a priority to make a lot of petrol cars much, much cheaper. It may well be a policy, but there is a target to say that for the government it is more important than dropping the savings on education. That is the priority we take as a government. So the finance minister should not stand there and say that the whole country would have gone bankrupt by 2015, if you hadn't done this. Some other choices were made and said: tax concessions, cars, etc. is more important than our education system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182609	We have chosen to say that there are a number of priority areas, that is correct. The re-prioritisation contribution has gone to priority in the public sector. The re-priority contribution has not gone to finance tax cuts. The re-prioritisation contribution is exactly what you give priority to and spend the money elsewhere. Every year there has been growing consumption in the public sector. There has been growth in public spending, not a reduction. That is why we have created a strong economy which has enabled us to afford to lower car taxes too, so that it has become easier for an ordinary child family to buy a large, safe and environmentally friendly family car compared to what they could afford in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182654	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182657	Thank you very much, and also thank the Minister for Finance for his words and, above all, thank you for an extended hand in relation to increased business development in Greenland. I think that is very positive. After all, we are looking forward to constructive negotiations over the next few weeks, including on the part of Inuit Ataqatigiits. I know that the Minister for Finance is very enthusiastic about the UN's global goals, and when the draft budget was presented, the Minister for Finance also mentioned that Denmark is number two on the SDG index. At a meeting earlier, I have pointed out that I believe that Denmark also has a responsibility for the global objective 16 in relation to Greenland. It's about peace and I'm gonna have to look here at peace, justice and strong institutions. And that is special because the area of justice is part of what Denmark has a responsibility for. But it's a little shattered in my ears, I think, when I hear that you're among the big five, that's the five who, like, do best in relation to the UN's world goal... you're number two on the SDG index... if you don't also sweep by your own door. That is to say, the responsibilities that you have, such as: is the area of justice. Does the Minister of Finance share that assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182813	I think we have a responsibility for the whole Kingdom community when we talk about responsibility for the global goals. And I am doing so because, when we report to the United Nations on how far we have come, we report to the whole Kingdom community. And that is why we must also look at what is happening in the Kingdom community. This does not remove the responsibility for not taking responsibility in Tórshavn or Nuuk for what is happening locally. As far as the question of the institutions is concerned, we are back on the issue of justice, and Mrs Aaja Chemnitz herself said that there should be discussions with the Minister for Justice in this area. I think that is the right place to have those discussions. I believe that the Minister for Justice is much better at being able to respond qualitatively to what is possible and what needs to be done in relation to the cooperation between Denmark and Greenland in the area of justice. However, I would like to say that I believe that here too we have a responsibility to provide a good framework for the Greenlandic people to have a coherent infrastructure in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906182918-2	Thank you very much. This is not really related to the government's own action plan on how to live up to the SDGs, the UN's global goals. It says a sentence about Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and it is that Greenland and the Faroe Islands have taken over the various areas. So I think there is a problem with the global objective 16, because I think Denmark also has a responsibility here to ensure that it is done at a dignified level in the area of justice. Another thing that I know is that when we report to the United Nations, it is Denmark that sits alone, and it has been decided to invite some NGOs from Denmark to represent the Kingdom Community to the United Nations. And there I think it might be appropriate that Greenland and the Faroe Islands also had the opportunity to provide the input they have in relation to the UN's global goals. Because this is really an important matter for Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183011	The last thing I just have to do is admit that there is something we need to do better. When we did the first reporting for all countries that were leaving there in 2017, we were a little bit uncertain about how to actually do it, and a little groping about how a debriefing should be. There I can hear from those who participated in summer reports that there has been much more structure and much more form over it. In fact, a number of countries have been inspired by Denmark because we had NGOs to give their views on what the government had done. So when next time we're going to do a de-reporting, and I don't know if it's 2021 or 2022, I'd like to put my mind to having Greenland and the Faroe Islands also represented in the Danish report.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183058	We shall now proceed to a mixed group of rapporteurs. Well, you have noticed that the financial rapporteurs are privileged to know that they have their own microphone and do not need to get away from their chairs. But everyone else has to go to the other one. And that's why I mention two names at a time so you don't have to run over there and get out of breath. So when I say that the next rapporteur is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, he can sit on his chair, but then I'm also saying that after him, it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, and then he can just as quiet a list over there, and then we're ready to get things going. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183141	Thank you, President. But I prefer to stand. The Minister of Finance uses the story of the introduction of the re-priority contribution to education that it was necessary because of the economy in 2015. I wish that the Minister for Finance would also help to ensure that we had a proper storytelling in Denmark. For it is true that in 2015 the government said that the economy was ill and therefore, among other things. The re-priority contribution was introduced, but the truth is that on 15 November 2016 we all became much wiser when Denmark's Statistics revised the bnp estimate and thus demonstrated that there had been significantly greater growth than expected and that the effects that had been on the economy had a positive impact. In fact, we would have had some bias in relation to that, among other things. When we held the Marienborg Summit in May 2016, and without having to quote exactly what the various speakers said, one must at least say that Chief Wise Men Michael Reply did not leave the impression that there was a burning platform. And that is why I have to say that, as the Minister of Finance himself says, when we stand today, and this is progressing in the economy, I find it very difficult to see what the purpose is for us to continue, over the next three years, year by year, to erode education at a time when we need more than ever to upgrade and qualify our labour force.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183323	First of all, I can just quote from the then S-led government's own publications. I mean, I'm not making up numbers or dishes in figures that have been published. I am simply telling you what was said in May 2015 by the Socialist Finance Minister, namely that there was a prospect that there would be a deficit of 0.5%. of bnp. And that's on the line of the budget law. In August it was actually assessed even higher; there it was above the limit of the budget law and, of course, it needed to be tightened up. I can then welcome the fact that the Social Democratic Party now agrees that there should be a change of priority in the cultural field, because I understand that, in relation to the uncertainty that has existed about what the Social Democrat really means, today, we are waiting anxiously for tomorrow to end up with the idea that there should be no re-prioritisation of education and training, but that this should be done on culture in the future. It is also a new step from 2015 because it was necessary by the situation we were in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183425	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183426	The reality as a financial rapporteur is, of course, that if a new policy is put forward, it will also have to be financed and, of course, we would have to wait until we came up with our draft Finance Bill or the Finance Minister would have been after us on that point too. But seriously, can we not just get an honest answer as to why it is so crucial for the government that savings need to be made in the area of education? Why is this precisely what needs to be given priority? After all, the Minister of Finance does not hide the fact that if it is up to the government and it continues after the next elections, there may be tax cuts. Why, then, should we give priority to this particular way?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183511	The re-prioritisation contribution means that priority is given to the public sector, not to prioritising away, not to hiding, but to re-prioritising. This means that the funds available are being used in a different way. In addition to that, we have added more funds every year. When we included the field of education, it was because we chose to say: Unlike the then government, which cut down on the number of officers, we will increase the number of officers; we will increase the quality of cancer treatment and ensure that more can survive; we will increase the effort we have to ensure that we have a Denmark that is connected, a Denmark that is in balance. We chose to prioritize the money for that. However, we have also chosen to prioritise money back to education in a number of areas, such as: On the fucker, among other things. in the reserve now available for vocational education and training, in the draft budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183558	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183600	Thank you. When my good colleague, sir... Nicolai Wammen, in the past, asked the Minister of Finance to tell us that 5 000 public posts have disappeared while the government has been in charge, we received an answer that was so technical and difficult to understand that I think it can be concluded with peace of mind that the Minister of Finance tried to avoid talking. But we really do not have to talk so much about numbers. We can just relate to reality. I was elected in Kolding and they landed a budget settlement last night. They have to save up to 100 million. kr. for the next four years, that is until 2022. That means massive savings on sfo. They're not talking about closing days, they're talking about closing weeks. This means massive savings in childcare, and it means massive savings in special schools; it means cutting down on the schools which provide the very weakest pupils we have. It is, of course, the very concrete consequences of the policy pursued by the government and a picture of reality that stands in stark contrast to the description given by the Minister of Finance when he has to explain what is up and down. What is the Minister of Finance's response to the citizens, as in Kolding, for example, it could also be elsewhere to live with the consequences of the government's cut-back policy and the erosion of welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183718	It is that the government has added 1.7 billion to the municipalities. kr. more than planned for the 2019 budget. We have lifted their service framework by 1.7 billion. kr., and on top of that we have released 600 million in the local authorities' own words. kr. From bureaucracy to citizen-friendly welfare. When municipalities like Kolding and others are hit, it is because social democracy would not take responsibility for a compensatory reform. So when a number of municipalities today have problems, this is due to the fact that there were not enough mandates to support the government in a compensatory reform that could correct some of the many shortcomings that exist today, among other things. the question of whether a municipality has a large increase or a slight decline in the number of citizens. It means an incredible amount, quite disproportionately. And I regret that a party so rooted in local politics, such as the Social Democratic Party, eventually lost its courage and did not want to take responsibility for a compensatory reform that could have solved a great many of the problems that many municipalities face in these months.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183822	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183824	Without going through the very long list of municipalities which are currently closing budget settlements, which contain massive savings, it is quite obvious that all the municipalities had not been accommodated by compensatory reform. It's obvious. The municipality after the municipality is currently struggling with the economy, and it is the welfare that stands for with dramatic cuts. And the consequence is just that, for example in Kolding, the children we need to take care of are given less education. It is true that more money has been added, but the sum of the more money that has been added does not match the fact that there have also been more and more older and more children. There is no point in saying that more money has been added. One has to consider that the sum of the funds that are being given means worse welfare because they do not cover more children and more elderly people. They see that reality in the municipalities now. Kolding is just an example. There are plenty of examples. And it has nothing to do with a compensatory reform that the government got thrown on the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906183918	Sometimes the hypocrisy of the Folketing is simply too great, and the belief that the mayors' memory is too short is overwhelming. I believe that mayors can remember what economic agreements were made when the Social Democracy sat in the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister's Office. Economic agreements were made which took away 3.5 billion during the parliamentary term. kr. We have made agreements that since 2015 have lifted the municipalities by over 2 billion. kr. I think the mayors can remember who cut down on their service framework and who has subsequently increased their service framework. Sometimes the hypocrisy in here just gets too thick
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184002	Sir. Magnus Heunicke. And after sir... Magnus Heunicke is Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184005	Thank you. Well, let's try to continue in this lead here, as Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen started with the serious negotiations that are taking place right now in our municipalities. Christian Rabjerg Madsen mentioned what is happening in Kolding. I have just tried to examine what is happening in other municipalities of the Left, Allerød, Assens, Ikast-Brande Municipalities, and have looked at some of the concrete cuts they are now sitting and have to deal with. Allerød Municipality: reduces baths at care centers to elderly people from once weekly to once every two weeks; stops having camp schools in their primary schools. Assens Municipality: bath with hair wash for our elderly from every week to every other week; limit opening hours in day care institutions. And Ikast-Brande is now discussing a proposal to introduce dry swimming into primary school because you cannot afford to get the children from primary school in the swimming pool. Meanwhile, we have a finance minister who says that the economy is going bravely well and that good times need to be improved. These, Minister of Finance, are not good times, they are serious cuts in the municipalities of the Finance Minister's own party colleagues and mayors.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184125	Yeah, you could have continued the list. One could have continued the list of Aarhus, where the author's party colleague last year made a budget saying with the budget settlement: we think there will be a compensatory reform that will give us 200 million. kr., so we use them. And it was despite the fact that not one of the models in the Finance Committee's report gave Aarhus Municipality near 200 million. kr. Nevertheless, the author's party colleague chooses to make a budget based on the sudden dumping of 200 million from somewhere. kr. down, and of course you need to clean that up now. So there are some municipalities which have a major problem to solve, among other things. due to a rather lenient budgeting in the year in which the mayor of Aarhus was to be re-elected. That is why they are now facing a lot of challenges. We lifted the service framework and we have freed up resources within the municipalities. The municipalities themselves have said in the agreement of June this year that 600 million resources have been released. kr., which can be moved from administration to citizen's welfare, next to the 1.7 billion. kr., the municipalities have received more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184236	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184238	The fact is that more municipalities have problems does not make things any better. And it is true that there are problems, but now I just mentioned the municipalities of the Left, so it might be that the Minister took on a responsibility for it. Now the Minister is paying close attention to the Socialist Finance Bill, and I then found the Left's financial bill from the time that the Left was in opposition, when it launched its spending freeze, which was also called zero growth, but which was called a stop to expenditure at that time. What does the Left's spending stop mean? It is directly on page 16 of the Left's pre-election financial bill, that is, before you were given the responsibility. It says: "With the spending stop of the Left, public spending grows every year with the development of wages and prices. This makes it possible, in principle, to maintain the same number of public employees and to purchase the same goods and services from the private sector as today. It is possible to maintain the same number of public employees. That is what was promised, but now we can see that there are 6 000 fewer public employees, and that is what you can feel in those municipalities, and that is what we are now trying to say to the Minister of Finance is not good enough. The promise you made before the election has not been kept.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184349-2	When Mr. Magnus Heunicke was a minister, we asked Mr. Magnus Heunicke's ministerial colleagues on the decline in the number of employees in the municipalities under the Social Democratic led government • a decline which was significantly greater than the decline has been here, and this meant a decline in welfare and there was the answer: No, no, that is not how it can be estimated at all. At that time, the number of public employees was not decisive in terms of welfare at all, and the fact that much fewer employees in the public sector had been employed under social-democratic-led governments had no bearing on welfare. I just want to ask you to have one standard. One standard when you are in government and the same standard when you are in opposition, instead of that double standard, as Mr. Magnus Heunicke is coming with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184436	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. And after her, it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184441	Every year, since this government came into being, it has cut a big bleeding chunk out of our common education system. Contrary to what one might get the impression of when one hears the Minister of Finance stand and speak here today, it is actually billion cuts, that is, billions that have been removed from our high schools, our higher education, our universities, our professional colleges. And that is something you can feel around when there are too many students in classrooms, when high school teachers are fired around the country, and when we hear that there is a real risk that they will have to shut down and go bankrupt, especially at the small educational establishments around the countryside. It is therefore, I think, insanely serious because our education is being destroyed, and so, frankly, I think it is embarrassing and actually disrespectful that the government has tried to cover itself up behind all sorts of smokescreens and explanations that this may not be so bad after all. The reality is, as I see it, that we are cutting back and that we are going to continue to do so for many years to come. Danish Industry and Danish Industry have begged the government to stop this undermining of our educations, which is why I would like to hear quite frankly from the Minister of Finance whether the Minister of Finance really thinks it is a good business for Denmark to cut billions on our educations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184612	I think it is right that every year priority should be given to this and that every year the state asks the different parts of the public sector to give priority to something that is given priority over a common pool, and then we choose when the budget law is passed where the money goes. Sometimes they go back to teaching and they did, for example, when we were supposed to lift the fgu'n other times it goes back to other areas, such as: when we were going to strengthen the police when we were going to strengthen our cancer treatment. It is a re-priority contribution that means that the money stays in the public sector and that it is not taken out to do anything else but stays in the public sector. In addition to that, we promise every year the consumption we have. We are increasing the number of crowns spent on welfare services in the public sector, and we have proposed this year that it is especially vocational training which must be given a boost and which must be ensured that some funds are provided to enable them to provide better education, more attractive education and to ensure that even more young people are able to carry out the vocational training they are beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184715	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184716	But the reality is that much more money has been taken away than has been given to education. After all, many of this money has also been used for tax relief. So I would like to hear something from the Minister for Finance, just so that we can at least agree entirely on that premise: can the Minister for Finance confirm that this government has cut billions on education, spent them on other things and, in this way, intends to continue to remove billions from our education? The Minister must have an overview of the overall calculation to which reference is made here. So what exactly is the total calculation, how many billions are being removed from the education of this government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184751	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184752	Now, that's how we made a change of priority contribution. This means that we give priority to a common pool, and from there priority is given to different areas. It is true that we spend less net on education than if we had not had the re-priority contribution. That's right. But it is not true when it is said that the money has gone into tax relief. The money has gone to other parts of the public sector, the money has gone to, as I mentioned, the police, cancer treatment, they have gone to, that last year we gave the municipalities half a billion more so that they could lift the care of the elderly, which could be more hands in the care of the elderly. So we have given priority to the public sector, we have not reduced public spending, it has actually increased, but it is true, as the questioner says, that there is less money for education. That is also why this year we have set aside a pool to give a tremendous boost to vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184842	Thank you to the questioner and welcome to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, and after her it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906184850	Thank you. In his speech, the Minister said that he was not only involved in efforts to curb climate change, but was ahead. No, I think we're gonna have a talk about that. Yesterday, the Global Commission on the Economy and Climate actually came with their report, which shows that if we make radical efforts now in terms of curbing climate change, we can save what amounts to 26 trillion dollars up to 2030, not millions or billions, but trillion dollars up to 2030. We can simply save as much money on the effects of climate change that we would avoid if we invested enough in them. Some of the things they point to are needed include: a radical transformation of our entire transport system, our entire infrastructure, and also that once and for all we are stopping tax benefits and subsidies for emissions from fossil fuels. But what has the government done? It has continued to give tax advantages in relation to picking up oil from the North Sea, and tax deductions have been taken away from electric cars and also made cheaper, for example. driving over Storebælt by car. So can the Minister of Finance not agree with me that this is by no means the way to curb climate change?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185010	When I said that we were ahead, it was in relation to those who said that we should have action now, and we have actually already acted because the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate and I just made the broad agreement, of which the alternative was part, in the field of energy. Just a tiny factual thing, because it has actually also become cheaper to drive on trains over Storebælt. The price over Storebælt for those driving on trains has certainly been reduced so that it is not just car transport. It's all transportation across Storebælt that's become cheaper. We are facing a challenge with regard to green transport. We are facing a challenge in terms of how we move our entire society to a CO2 It is the case, however, that as long as we still need oil away not only in Denmark, but in the world I would rather that the oil comes from the North Sea than that it comes from unstable regimes around the world. I would rather that it is Denmark and the Danes who get a profit from it than that it is regimes whose world view is far away from ours. That is why, together with a broad circle of parties, we have made an agreement to rebuild the Tyra field to continue oil and natural gas production from Denmark, because it does not disappear by the fact that it is not Danish. It's just somebody else who gets paid by it. So there is a challenge, and that is what we are addressing. We've booked 100 million. kr. for green transport in the energy agreement. We have an even bigger climate pool of 1⁄4 billion. kr. Every year from 2026 onwards, and we come in this autumn with the government's bid on how to tackle it even before we reach 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185145	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185147	But it's still not ambitious enough. Firstly, we could invest much more in, for example. wind power and solar power than you have chosen to do. The energy agreement is fine, but as we have also said several times, it is quite simply not enough in relation to what we could actually do if we really wanted to and if we really wanted to invest in it. There is, of course, always a limitation to saying: yes, we are doing something, but we must also keep up, or we must... somehow I just miss a government that once and for all says that we are going ahead here, we are not investing a billion dollars in efforts to prevent climate change. We invest far more billions in it. We have electric trains in some places in Denmark. Why are there trains in Sweden and not trains throughout Denmark? You can do it if you want to. On the other hand, the government makes it cheaper, for example. to drive in petrol and diesel cars. So there's just something that doesn't fit in with what you say, that you're ahead, or at least far ahead, and what you're doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185248	I believe that the whole history of the choice of diesel trains and IC4 trains should be discussed with the former Socialist Minister for Transport, Mrs Sonja Mikkelsen. Left was kicked out of the settlement at the time. We had other models, we had other solutions, but we were not allowed to join, and then they ended up with the IC4 trains. As far as transport is concerned, it is indeed the case that the sale of hybrid cars has taken a strong step forward, because part of the conversion that has been made actually means that hybrid cars have become significantly cheaper and therefore sales of them have increased significantly. In the area of electric cars, we need to discuss what we can do. That is why we have set aside the 100 million. kr. What can we do to move from fuel engines to low-emission or zero-emission engines collectively and individually?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185341	Thank you to the questioner. And welcome to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. And after Mrs. Karin Gaardsted, it's sir. Pelle Dragsted, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185347	Thank you. The re-prioritisation contribution in the field of education may be one of the most difficult things for our educational institutions to deal with, and that is because it has been going on for many years, and now it seems that it is going on for even more years. I know that the government is presenting this as if it wanted to get rid of the re-prioritisation contribution, but it could have been put forward in such a way that it said that we are now maintaining the re-prioritisation contribution for the next three years. So I think you stick people in the eye. I come from Viborg, and I need to be able to give an answer to Viborgensian companies that are standing and lacking skilled labour. They lack educated people at all levels of education, including those who have a little higher education. I would like to hear the Minister's response to what I am going to say to them when we are still left with this re-priority contribution and it seems that it must be maintained with the government in power for the next three years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185502	See, first of all, the re-prioritisation contribution in this area has not been there for many years okay, of course it depends on the definition of many. It started in 2016, and now we're in 2018. There may be a difference in what you think is many years. In all sorts of other areas we have actually had re-prioritised contributions since the 1980s. We have had a re-priority contribution in connection with the Danish Medicines Agency; we have had a re-priority contribution in relation to the Danish Health Authority. So have we lost a health board? Has it disappeared? Is it like that with a snap with your fingers off? No, because more funds have also been added. When the need for it has been there, when we have had to strengthen some special areas, when new tasks have been created, funds have been provided. However, we have just been able to afford to do so because there was a change of priority contribution. I think Mrs Karin Gaardsted should go home to Viborg and say two things. First of all, a great praise to the young people in Viborg, who have helped to ensure that Viborg's vocational school, Mercantec, has had an increase of approx. 30% I'm busy with young people. It's a sign of a strong school that has a strong record. And to the companies, Mrs Karin Gaardsted must say that the government has set aside funds in the reserves to strengthen vocational training, not only in the first year, but in the years to come, to ensure that we have good framework conditions, including for young people who want to take vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185622	Then we'll see if she'll tell us. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185624	Now not all schools are as large as Mercantec in Viborg, where you have some opportunities to reroute. If you look at the high school in Bjerringbro, which is one of the small colleges that has a relatively small area to be able to get students from, then they are in a very, very difficult situation. And that means that they cannot offer courses at the level they would like to, and that is why the young people from that area can be in the situation that they say: Aah, should I go to Viborg and go to high school instead of out in my local area? And I think it's a very serious matter if the government with this action prevents students out there from being local.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185716	As far back as 2008, we anticipated this problem, and that is why we introduced the outskirtstaximeter, which means that the small educational institutions in the gymnasium area, which can not just be replaced by another school, but where, if you lose that school, you will get really far to your educational institution, get a higher taximeter. And we have also indicated that this is one of the things we would like to look at: whether there is a need to prioritize outskirts gymnasiums, the outskirts taximeter higher in the future to ensure that our small educational institutions, primarily in the outskirts, can have a more secure future and a wider palette of the education and training opportunities they can offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185800	Thank you to the questioner and welcome to Mr. Pelle Dragsted. And in the meantime, sir... Morten Bødskov get ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185806	Thank you very much. It has been a little fun to hear the debate here, in particular the Minister of Finance's attempt to explain that the money taken from the educational institutions has not been spent on tax reliefs; they have been spent on other things. I remember having had debates in the past with the Minister of Finance, with the opposite sign, where the Minister of Finance put a lot of emphasis on the fact that once things had gone down into the public treasury, it was like mixing cold and hot water, and that is why it was not possible to separate it afterwards. Apparently, you can do that anyway. Can't the Minister of Finance just basically confirm that the government hadn't spent money on, for example. This is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject. a particularly lower inheritance tax for those who have a great deal of money because they are heirs to business owners, they had money, among other things. could be used to ensure that the educational institutions did not have to fire teachers every year, had to cut down on quality? In other words, can we not just have the basic honesty that we have chosen to give priority to some other things and that is why we have cut down on education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906185918	The re-priority contribution is exactly what the name says. It is a contribution that is a priority in the public sector, but used for public expenditure. In other words, we have not reduced public expenditure for a single year. We have maintained them, re-priority them, and then we have added a little bit. It is true that we have ensured that an ordinary family can now buy a more clean, a more secure and a safer car at a lower price. It is true that we have made sure that cross-border trade has fallen so that we can now see that far fewer Danes are driving across the border to trade that is both fucking with CO2 We can see that much more people have been given the opportunity to save up shares and a greater interest in it, because the taxation of small savers has been significantly reduced. We can see that we have strengthened our conditions for companies. That's right. What we have been able to prioritise alongside, but not financed, is the re-prioritisation contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190016	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190019	This is a strange presentation made by the Minister for Finance, which does not correspond to how the Minister for Finance usually describes it. But let it go. So let me ask another simple question. Today it has become clear that an overall opposition wants to eliminate this annual cropping cut in education from next year. Can the Minister of Finance just be honest this time and confirm that we will have a choice before this financial law is implemented, so can my daughter and other young people who have started a youth education this year look forward to a training offer with more teachers, of higher quality than if this government stays in place and continues its policy of reducing education? Can we not just bring out the honesty that we want to prioritise other things and downgrade our education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190106-2	I do not know, because you can look at some of these things that have been that you would set priorities and allow money to go to other priorities in the field of education. I do not know whether the school that the questioner's daughter goes to, and I do not know whether the school that my son goes to will then be taken into consideration. I can't say that in advance. In other words, I can see that there is some disagreement as to how far the re-priority contribution should be rolled back; some believe that it should be in all areas, and the Social Democrats do not think that it should be in all areas. So I cannot tell you what an opposition can agree on at all if it should go and get a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190146	Thank you to the questioner and welcome to Mr. Morten Bødskov. After mr. Morten Bødskov from Social Democracy we take his partymate Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil as the last.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190156	Thank you for that, President. You don't have to go far beyond these thick walls to see that people agree that one of the most important investments we have in this country is our field of education. It is all parts of the business community, and it is virtually all parts of Danish society that point to the value of our education. And the Minister for Finance is, it has to be said, exemplary, honest when he literally says that it is true that we spend less net on education. Then it is just that I wonder why it is necessary to save on education. That's the first thing. Why does the Minister of Finance think that we should save on education? Secondly, when you look at how much is being saved, could the Minister of Finance not try to put a figure on it? The government took over power in 2015, and 2021 is the year we're talking about when we're talking about this priority contribution... how much has this government saved all over the education sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190313	See, this is how we actually spend more money on higher education now than we did in 2015. Well, if we just compare the numbers, i.e. how much money is spent, then more money is actually spent. After all, it is a question of how the money is put together. I understand that the Social Democrats also believe that we should be able to look at how money should be spent internally in these areas. In other words, we have chosen to give priority to some of the things that used to go to education, for example. other priority areas. We actually thought it was important to strengthen the police. Where the previous government cut down on the police and reduced the number of officers, we've increased the number of officers. We thought that was an important priority. Therefore, part of the reprioritised contribution we have had since 2015 goes, among other things. also to be able to prioritise extra police in order to create security and to ensure that citizens receive the services they expect when they are exposed to a crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190414	I quite quietly asked how many billions the government is saving on education. We can easily discuss what the previous government was doing with regard to the police, i.e. with a police reform with a promise of 800 more officers on the street. We can have that discussion. I don't think anyone's seen those many cops yet. We can have that discussion. But now we're discussing education. Can the Minister of Finance point to a single area in the public sector or in the overall public economy, where more savings are being made up to 2021 than in the field of education? Can the Minister of Finance point that out?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190451	Yeah, for example. in the field of integration. If you take the expenses that were supposed to cover receiving as many refugees as we did in 2015, then the costs were heavy in 2015 and 2016. Since then, we have saved significantly in this area because we have managed to control the influx of refugees. There will be significantly fewer refugees, and there will be significantly fewer family members. This means that we are not only saving money that can be dac'ed and therefore included in development aid, but also the non-dac-able expenditure has gone down significantly because we have managed the influx. There we save some money that we can spend on other parts of the public sector to ensure that we deliver what the Danes expect from us and beyond a strict foreign policy, so also good welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190540	Thank you to the questioner. And welcome to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190541	Who is the benefit of saving our education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190552	This benefits, for example. the cancer patients who have been given better conditions because we have given priority to them. It benefits the Danes who want greater security and who miss the fact that there are some more officers. I don't understand why the previous government chose to cut down on the number of officers. We have increased the number of officers now, and this means that it is easier to reach a police officer if it is the case that you are exposed to a crime, if it is the case that you need to have contact with the law's long arm. And I think that's right. I also think it is right that we have chosen to give priority to, for example, in this area. the children who have the most difficulty reading. 1⁄2 billion has been set aside for this purpose. kr. to raise the worst readers in primary school. I think that is quite right. That is precisely what we can do by re-setting priorities. Priority can be given to those areas where there is a need to give a special boost. I also think it is true that we have prioritised 21⁄2 billion. kr. further training for those who have left the education system but who find it difficult to keep up with the labour market so that they are not forgotten, but that they are also given priority in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190651	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190652	I understand that the Minister for Finance will have to grope around in something with some cops and something that has been prioritised, because it is actually quite difficult to answer the question of who benefits from saving education. It's actually a pretty hard question to answer. Now we have had a long debate today, and I think that what is left of it is a bit disconcerting. I've been in here since then, sir. Thor Pedersen stood and said that now we were soon so rich that we could buy the whole world. What is so incredibly disturbing about the debate we have had today is that we are soon about to be in the same place. There is beginning to be air in the economy, but although we are in a time of recovery, when the economy is actually doing well, unlike some very, very hard crisis years, when we actually needed a tough priority, some strange priorities are being made. I think we wasted the '00s on making all sorts of strange priorities instead of investing in what needs to be done to ensure the future of our society. I do not believe that anyone is served by our education system being cut back, and certainly not for some years, when we have such an evident need to make the investments that we cannot make in times of decline. So to constantly show back to something and ask why we did nothing: we have come out of the crisis. We have a healthy economy. That's how far we can agree. Why, then, is it that the government is not making the investments that are needed? So quite simply: who is the benefit of saving education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190815	First of all, Thor Pedersen has never said that we would be so rich that we could own the whole world. It is a myth and a misquote which, unfortunately, has bitten and it so much that it shadows the truth. Sir. Thor Pedersen actually warned against believing in the millennial models that some used to predict that Denmark would become so rich that we could own the whole world. I would like to warn against thinking that with the re-priority contribution we have removed money from the public sector. We've refocused them on something else. We have among other things. Reprioritised them to the police area and to health care. So when some ask who has benefited from a re-priority contribution, it is the patients who have received better cancer treatment than we have seen in the past. I also note, moreover, that the Social Democratic Party is still saying in what is now apparently the latest proposal for a policy in this area that there must of course be room for us to decide politically to move them around in the field of education. That's what we do. We are re-prioritizing, and this year we are re-prioritizing to strengthen, among other things. Vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906190916	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister for the first round. Let's move on to round two. I'm just being informed by the secretary that it's only if you want us to do another round. I'm well aware of that, but I have a duty to give you the opportunity to have another round. It is only with half-time speaking time, so it could be that it tempted some of the rapporteurs. And I would like to know which rapporteurs want a second round. Anybody want another round? There isn't. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I would like to thank everyone. I think you guys have been really cool today. With such extensive material to discuss within 10 hours, it is impressive what has been achieved and thanks also apply to the Minister of Finance. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906191028	The debate is open. Who wants to speak? As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906191150	For this election has been notified: an electoral group of 179 members: Danish People's Party, Left, Liberal Alliance, Conservative People's Party, Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternative, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Inuit Ataqatigiit (IA), Nunatta Qitornai (NQ), Tjóðveldi (T) and Javnadarflokkurin (JF). The group has appointed the following members: 1. Mogens Jensen (S) 2. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen (S) 3. Steen Thomsen (designated by DF) 4. Michael Aastrup Jensen (V) 5. Claus Thure Hastrup (designated by EL) 6. Mai Christiansen (appointed by LA) 7. Mette Annelie Rasmussen (appointed by RV) 8. Turid Leirvoll (designated by SF) 9. Rolf Aagaard-Sørensen (appointed by KF). Notice of who has been selected according to the group's recommendation will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180906191306	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 2 October 2018, at 3 pm. 12.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I would like to thank everyone for today's work in the service of the people's regime.
