ParlaMint-DK_20180515130030	The meeting is open. Members of the Folketing Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others have informed me that they want to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the unlimited retention of fingerprints in the fingerprint register. B 120). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the proposal has lapsed. Today there are the following reviews: Martin Henriksen (DF) and others.: Question No. F 35 (Can the Minister, following on from the Danish Parliament's discussion of motion for a resolution B 68, state whether and, if so, how the Government wishes to prevent foreign transfers of funds for the construction of mosques and for Muslim cultural, ideological and religious purposes in Denmark? ) and Query No. F 36 (What is the government's position on capping certain parts of non-western immigration?). Mette Frederiksen (S), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Britt Bager (V), Pernille Skipper (EL), Christina Egelund (LA), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Morten Østergaard (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), Mette Abildgaard (KF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Aleqa Hammond (NQ), Magni Arge (T) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF): Request no. F 37 (What can the Prime Minister say about the domestic and foreign policy situation?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Employment (Troels Lund Poulsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the efforts for a less burdensome implementation of vocationally oriented EU regulation. R 14). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130226	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 52 of Mattia Tesfaye (S), Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Anni Matthiesen (V), Jakob Sølvhøj (EL), Joachim B. Olsen (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Marlene Borst Hansen (RV), Jacob Mark (SF) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. Proposal for adoption No V 52 has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130340	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130404	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 9 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130434	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130500	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130524	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130544	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 9 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130617	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130637	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. voted 98 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 7 (ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130708	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130724	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130753	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130812	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130840	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130903	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515130933	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131009	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by the Minister for the Environment and Food, as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131016	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131026	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Has everyone voted? The vote is over. In favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131105	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131130	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 86 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131200	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131218	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131247	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131309	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 84 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131355	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131403	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 22 (DF), against 83 (S, V, EL, LA. ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131448	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131457	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 84 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131544	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131552	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 83 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131649	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131657	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 82 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131740	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131747	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and SF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted unanimously and will then be sent to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131817	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131914	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515131940	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 adopted by the Committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals. The division of the bill has been adopted. The bill referred to in A shall then be put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Companies Act]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for amendment of the Companies Act, Law on certain Business Enterprises and Law on Business Funds]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3-8, elected by the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515132022	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515132040	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals. A vote can be taken. This is Amendment No. 1 that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals. It is Enhedslisten and SF who, with Amendment No. 1. has asked for the bill to be divided into two legislative proposals. Has everyone voted? Yeah. In favour of 9 (EL), against 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 5, 6 and 7, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL). The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8-16, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL and SF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515132323	We have some rapporteurs who would like to speak. Not for this? No? No one will comment, so the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515132346	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515132403	Does anyone wish to speak? There is. Here you go, Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515132446	Thank you. After all, this is the second reading of the Data Protection Act, which we have spent a great deal of time on in the Committee on Legal Affairs. We have been asking a lot of questions, and there have been two outstanding issues here lately. The first outstanding has been that there was an authorisation for the trade ministers to issue a notice in relation to changing the use of the information collected. The second outstanding issue is when it is then that people will be informed that their information is used for something other than what it is collected for. As regards the first, where we have normally had a legal procedure when ministers want to use information for other purposes than those for which they have been gathered, an agreement has now been reached between the government and the Social Democratic Party that it should go through two committee sessions. It has to go through the Legal Affairs Committee and then it has to go through the specialist committee in question. And if one of the two committees says no to it, the Minister is obliged to do so. There we have received an answer that it is legally binding, and that is why we are content with that model. But I would also like to say that it is a whole innovation that we should not now discuss matters here in the Danish Parliament, but that we should make a system in which we have two committees which each have to discuss the issues in question. We've tried to get it written into the law, but the government doesn't want it. We are in favour of the agreement that has been made, but will of course keep an eye on that innovation. The second thing that remains very, very questionable is that, if you collect information about citizens, you will still not inform them if you use the information for profiling the citizens. And the profiling of citizens means analysing or predicting things and matters relating to these citizens if you put together different information, for example. employment, interests, geographical habitat, etc. And that means that we can now collect information about citizens without informing them that we are using it for anything else. The government has been involved in drafting an amendment, so now, after all, we have to inform citizens when it is for control purposes, but we must not inform citizens if we want to use the information to profile them as it is called. And we are strongly, strongly critical of it and have very, very difficult to understand why people do not want to be informed. We think it is absolutely fundamental in a democracy that there should be transparency with what the public authorities are doing and, ultimately, I am seriously afraid that citizens' confidence in the system will be weakened. That is why we are still calling on all parties to take part in the amendment which concerns the fact that, of course, we must also inform citizens when we use their information for something other than what they were intended to do. So I very much hope that the parties will. In addition, we would like to take L 68 back to committee here between the second and third readings. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515132831	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515132837	A couple of weeks ago, there was a man I think he was IT manager at Ballerup Municipality who posted a post on the social media, which was widely shared. He was also a father, and his daughter had received one of these well-being measurements and had to fill it in, where there has been much discussion that there was no data protection about what the children answered about how they were feeling in general. This father described in his post how his daughter and her comrades had filled out these forms with a "I don't know" or any other evasive answer, because these little children as digital natives had found out that the data about themselves were apparently not safe enough and they would therefore bypass the system. I think it is quite striking and thought-provoking that in here we obviously cannot provide the assurance that our children's most personal information is not widely shared and that we leave it to young children to navigate in a system which they seem to understand the scope of better than us in here. I also find it thought-provoking that with a liberal government there is not a greater degree of discussion about what all of this data is available in the public system, but also on social media and, in particular, the interconnection of the two worlds, actually means in relation to the profiling of citizens. We have talked a lot about the Gladsaxe model and the fact that you can get points as a citizen, as a mother or a father, in relation to whether you have handed in a library book too late, whether you have forgotten a dental deal or something else, on the basis of the noble principle that you have to spot exposed children, although all professionals say that exactly the way will not help what is lacking in resources for professionals to deal with the 100,000 notifications that are every year. The only thing you get out of this is a profiling of Denmark's children's families. Then you can say it's one thing, but another is that there's a social and economic imbalance in this. Because we're going to have a country and a public system where people think: I'm going down with stress, but I'm not going into that horrible public system, because then it may be that I get minus points. Or: My child gets bullied at school, but we don't need a psychologist over, because it probably also gives negative points and helps profile us as family and us as parents. Then those who are resourceful and can afford it can choose private offers and just bypass this system where you are profiled. On the part of the SF, Radicals, Enhedslisten and the Alternative, we have tried to table a number of amendments to make the Government's data protection law a little better. The Data Protection Act is, of course, a Danish offshoot of a really fine European regulation. In fact, it is rather a special view where European legislation has come into being, where the big companies have not succeeded in lobbying, where it has actually happened, that we have a legal complex, where it is the citizens' freedoms that are at the heart. That the intention of the Danish data protection law is that you will share data so blindly, because you obviously suffer from such a facebook disease, where you think that data is the new gold, and that we should not have any discipline, self-discipline, in terms of how we share it cross-cross, I simply think that we are giving a very, very frightening picture, and I hope that this discussion, also within the government, has given rise to the discussion about what kind of society we are going to and what it is that we are using these many, many data for. I am really glad that there has been pressure there too, I know there has been from the Liberal Alliance and that the government, in cooperation with the Social Democratic Party, has made this change, so it is now time for approval in two parliamentary committees, and I would like to pay tribute very much to that, and that is a very clear step forward. But that doesn't change the fact that the intention of the law is still gone is that this data needs to be cross-checked and used to a very large extent. It is often with the very noble motive that you want to help the citizen and that you want to spot exposed children etc., but the road to hell is paved with good intentions, and I just wish that this is not a debate that ends today, but that we continue to discuss what kind of surveillance society we are creating with all good intentions. That is why, on behalf of the SF, I would like to say that, of course, we are voting in favour of the clear improvement in the draft law, but that we also hope that this process and the media campaign, which has also been 'yes', and there has also been pressure, and I think this is very good in a democratic society, so that the media also take on that role, and I hope that the Minister of Justice is not shaking its head over the fact that there are also media that think it is worth dealing with these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515133402	Thank you. I think no one else has asked for the floor, so the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515133411	Amendment No 1 shall first be voted on. L 68. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL, RV, ALT and SF), joined by a minority (DF). The vote is over. For the vote: 45 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 59 (S, V, LA and KF), abstention: 0. Amendment No. 1 has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 or on Amendment No 2 by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF and IA). 3, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL, RV, ALT and SF), joined by a minority (DF). The vote is over. In favour 46 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 60 (S, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 4 are rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL, RV, ALT and SF), joined by a minority (DF). The vote is over. In favour of voting 45 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 60 (S, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 5 has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 7 and 8, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? They are adopted. The vote will then be taken on Bill No. L 69. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-10 by a majority (Committee with the exception of IA)? They are adopted. It has been proposed that Bill No. L 68 is referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. I suggest that Bill No. L 69 goes directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515133658	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515133833	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515133848	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. We're gonna have a little quiet in the hall. Thank you. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515133919	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515133946	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515134021	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515134043	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515134102	The debate is open, and that is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515134130	Thank you. The motion for a resolution calls on the government to put forward a bill which obliges all elected politicians to register in a publicly accessible register gifts worth more than DKK 1,000 which they receive in connection with their duties. At the same time, all elected politicians must be completely forbidden to receive gifts worth more than 5,000 kroner. in the context of their political duties. The resolution therefore covers all elected politicians, both MPs and local and regional politicians. Transparency about the reception of gifts by politicians can be important in the interests of public confidence in elected politicians. There are already registration arrangements and transparency arrangements which require ministers and members of parliament to register gifts that they receive as ministers or in connection with their membership of the Folketing. Although there are not the same general registration arrangements for local and regional politicians, local and regional politicians are largely covered by the general principles of the administrative court for the receipt of gifts, which provide a narrow framework for the extent to which a local or regional politician may receive a gift. Politicians are also subject to criminal law rules on the receipt of gifts and other benefits. This means that all elected politicians who wrongly receive a gift or any other advantage can be punished under the Penal Code for receiving bribery. It is therefore already a criminal offence under criminal law and, contrary to the administrative right, to receive gifts as a politician is unjustified. And there are already transparency and registration arrangements for ministers and parliamentary politicians. Against this background, I see no need to put forward a legislative proposal such as the one proposed, and therefore the government cannot support the resolution. I could then stop here, but I would nevertheless like to explain why I believe, moreover, that the system proposed in the resolution would in itself be inappropriate to implement. The motion for a resolution calls for strict limits to be introduced. Politicians must register gifts over DKK 1,000, and politicians are completely forbidden to receive gifts over DKK 5,000. I do not think it is so easy to deal with such sharp limits as the proposers might imagine. It can be extremely difficult to estimate exactly how much a gift is really worth. I also believe that thresholds are inappropriate in that they may erroneously give the impression that it is legal to receive gifts below the threshold. An amount limit of e.g. A thousand kroner. can wrongly give the impression that gifts whose value does not exceed DKK 1,000 can be received in accordance with the criminal and administrative law, and they cannot always do so. The proposed limits may also give the erroneous impression that in any case a politician is free to receive gifts of a value of between DKK 1,000. And 5,000 kroner, if only he or she makes sure the gift is registered. Under the criminal and administrative law, it is not only the value of the gift that determines whether the gift is legally to be received. The purpose of the gift and the context in which it is given are also relevant. Therefore, there are no limits in the criminal law or administrative law. So to sum up briefly: there are already transparency and registration arrangements for ministers and members of parliament. In addition, politicians are subject to criminal law rules on bribery. It is therefore already a criminal offence if a politician receives an unjustified gift. In addition, a very narrow framework has been laid down in the administrative law for those of us who are also part of the public administration, in other words, in particular ministers and local and regional politicians. The new regime proposed in the motion for a resolution will be difficult to deal with and manage in the real world, with its strict limits. As I said, therefore, I see no need to put forward a legislative proposal as proposed and the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515134533	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515134535	Thank you for your review. I really agree with many of the points made by the Minister. What we imagine will also be bureaucratic. The problem is that if we do nothing, it is even more bureaucratic, if possible, to deal with whether what you are now out in is correct when you receive a gift. I am fully in favour of criminal law being applied, but I would also ask rhetorically: how often is it being used? How often do some people get a report that they might have received a gift that wasn't exactly as it should be? I say it is rhetorical, because hopefully not many of us are receiving gifts that we should not receive. I think that is actually the case. But our desire here is precisely to set out very clear guidelines as to whether politicians should receive gifts at all and whether it should be 1,000 and 5,000 kroner, we can discuss. But should politicians even receive gifts? We have set the limits here, because then it would have been possible to receive a gift in a diplomatic context. We have also written in the proposal that if you were now in a country where it was simply rude not to accept a gift, then we had to make a cat door for it. We're not rigged here at all. We just experience that it is very, very difficult to see, both outside the Castle and in here, when something is unjustified. So since the Minister has also used the word unfairly several times, when is a gift so unjustified?
ParlaMint-DK_20180515134657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515134658	Thank you. I think that the legislation we have today sets a clear framework for this. As a starting point, I do not think that politicians should receive gifts in connection with their political duties, but there can be a number of cases where it is quite acceptable and legitimate, and it can be almost impolite to say no if it is a gift of gratitude or if you are out to make a presentation or whatever it may be. I think that makes good sense and I actually think that the current rules are very fine. Then I would like to start the debate by taking the unpopular view that it could just be that we should not breathe into the view that politicians are such ones that are not quite fine on the edge and that it is rather such a grey-zone thing. In fact, I believe that most politicians are decent and honest people, and that is why I do not think such a proposal is needed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515134754	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515134755	Again, we are very much in agreement. I fully agree that politicians are actually an excellent people and incredibly honourable, especially in Denmark. What we are doing here with the motion for a resolution is simply laying down clear lines so that you can see: well, if there are no problems, then there are no problems. How can we get to grips with wrong beliefs? We can, among other things. do by setting clear guidelines. We have seen in recent months, over the past six months, that there has been a great deal of writing about gifts, about services, yes, about one thing and the other to politicians. I sit here sometimes thinking: Wow, these are little shoes you walk in in Denmark and also in the media. But what if one time there was something about it? That is what is causing the problems for everyone else. Then perhaps we could also approach some amount and say: when you are a minister, you must have proper working conditions. Then we don't have to cry to sleep because someone's got something... whatever it may be that seemed nice. You should not be mutilated because you are a politician, on the contrary, and not as a minister. So what we are proposing here is simply that there is a clear framework so that you can see that politicians are acting as they should. If it is not open and accessible, the rumors and stories come, and sometimes there is smoke because there is fire.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515134902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515134903	But then we may just be back at the starting point, which is that we can have a little disagreement as to whether the rules that exist today are sufficient or not sufficient. That is just what I am hearing, and here my view will be that they are sufficient. I also think it is important that as politicians we take our backs and advocate the view that we are actually decent and honest people, i.e. that we cannot bribe politicians in Denmark. I simply do not believe that we can and there is also a reason why we are one of the countries with the least corruption in the world. It's because we don't work like that. I mean, if somebody invites me to hockey in BOXEN, and I say yes, I could make that up, and I've done that too, it doesn't mean that there are some people for whom I have a special veneration. Politicians as a whole are not like that in this country, and I would like to stand up for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515134945	Thank you. And no one else has signed up. Then it's Mrs. Christine Antorini first.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515135005	Thank you for the alternative resolution - because that is something that is worth discussing. I would also like to say that our impression in the Social Democratic Party is that this is something that all parties take deeply seriously, and it has also been discussed in a number of contexts, i.e. variants of it, including last year, in which all parties voted in favour after the long run that had been, in relation to what one must receive in party support from outside and when it should be counted by name, and there is this limit of DKK 20.000. It is just to say that this is something we are discussing on an ongoing basis. And, for example, we take... The law passed last year, including with the votes of the Alternative, did not all get exactly what you wanted, but it was really good discussions to find those balances, in relation to the fact that it is okay that there are some who would like to support the parties, but it should be done in a way where there is no doubt as to whether it promotes some inappropriate behaviour patterns. The motion for a resolution from the Alternative here then goes into the gift side. We cannot support it on the part of the Social Democrats, because we think it is too rich and we do not think it really solves what is otherwise the good intention, namely that there should be more clear guidelines. Because there will be exactly the same discussions in relation to the limits proposed by the alternative as there will be today. I think that the Minister for Justice gave some very fine reasons and also drew up some dilemmas that should be taken into account, but on the basis that, fortunately, here in Denmark, we are among the countries where we are most aware of where the right side of the line is in the relationship between politicians and the outside world. And I think we should welcome the fact that, by the way, we are at the top when it comes to countries which, fortunately, are not plagued by corruption, and I say this because the alternative chooses to use that word as a justification. It is true that it may have or assume the character of corruption, but that is actually the case in the explanatory statement of the proposal. And there I have to say that fortunately that is not the starting point in Denmark, and when there are so few cases, it is not because it is not being investigated. That's the way things are in some places where things don't get registered. In fact, this is because there are quite high ethical standards. And when there are stumbled vessels, and unfortunately there are, it is often discovered, and there are some clear sanctions if you break the law in this. So, for those reasons, we cannot support the alternative's proposal, but thank you for the opportunity to turn around, whether there are any corners that need to be looked at. We just do not think that the proposal here solves what otherwise sounds like the intention of the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515135233	Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515135236	I am not going to drag all the rapporteurs through many issues, but I would say with regard to corruption: No, our proposal says that it can be an informal something for any economy, and it can take on the character of corruption. Those are really tight words, completely agree, but that is exactly what we must have done up to. Because I do not think it is a coincidence that in these years too we are being told even more from outside the world, as to whether or not we are behaving properly. Because we open the Castle, we make transparency, everyone can keep up, we livestream, everything becomes available, we may use new rooms in here to invite the citizens even more in. The times when you have been invited all the way in and have learned that there is something that is not right and is not right, it strikes even harder. And here I'm just gonna sneak around and say that if we make a register of the gifts we get, that's all. There may be some bureaucracy in it, and there we need to find a good solution, otherwise we should not do it, because it should not drown in bureacracy either. But to publish what is of gifts will then give a true picture of how much it is and how it is. We have a business register and there are some who do not want to participate in it. It creates incredibly great distrust that some do not want it, although their reasons can actually be quite excellent. We just have to go in the same direction. Well, how come you can't just present what gifts you get? Others would then also be able to understand the extent of this, because frankly I have to say that I am quite sure that there are really great gifts going and going between politicians and others. It is not certain that it is wrong to do so, but I think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515135412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515135414	I think that the Minister for Justice actually gave some very good examples of what are the dilemmas in relation to the alternative proposal. And I hope that the alternative will come along and consider, because I heard it as a real desire to say that the intention may be good enough, but that the practice of reality might promote something else. We can discuss the business register, and this also reflects the fact that there are different political views. In S we go into it and publish it, and then there are parties that have some other opinions. The most important thing is that we find a framework for everything that has to do with party support and publicity, etc. to do where all parties hopefully can see themselves in it, even if you didn't get it all. And there have in fact been in-depth discussions as to why this proposal is not necessary either, in other words, in relation to the discussion we had last year about the size of the party support and the public about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515135503	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515135504	In the hope of having almost everything, we then put forward this resolution, because I am in favour of finding some compromise. We are satisfied with that too, but we are still poking into it, because when we talk about gifts to politicians, I have to ask this rapporteur once again: should politicians even have gifts? I myself have been to many private companies where I didn't give it a thought at all if I accepted an expensive lunch or got a nice lift or a nice gift. But here I think about it every time. And maybe it's just because you wear too little shoes yourself. It may well be that both the Minister and the rapporteur have an idea that we should not have this discussion about politicians being like that. No, but imagine, if we just have to take a tiny bit away; create a tiny bit more openness, so that we do not have this annoying debate, which actually means that a personal matter can overturn a minister or a politician, while major political matters do nothing. It's sad that it's such little things in my eyes a little stupid things that cost so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515135558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515135600	There are very clear rules for this. And that is why I just hold onto worst case and therefore also what the Alternative writes about that it could lead to an assumption of corruption. We have clear rules in this country for what is the sanction if there is a commission involved. And I think the Minister for Justice explained that, and I think we should really remind each other of that. This is a country where you'll be punished if there's corruption. Fortunately, we do not see what we see elsewhere in Denmark. I know that's not what the alternative wants with it. But by raising it this way, it still gives a hint that something like that happens. That is where I think the set of rules is very good in Denmark. And that is why we cannot support the alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515135647	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515135701	I would therefore like, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, to acknowledge that we in the Danish Parliament also have the opportunity to discuss the conditions which, of course, concern the Folketing and the people's government itself, in relation to whether there are some who receive gifts that they should not receive, and whether they do not pay and indicate them the places where it should be done, both to SKAT, in the job register and elsewhere. In the Danish People's Party we fully agree with the alternative that politicians as such should not receive gifts, but in our optics there is also a difference between what is called gifts and gratitudes, that is to say gifts of a negligible nature. Then we can always discuss what is insignificant and what is not, and I would like to take part in a fundamental discussion on that. But what the alternative is proposing is that we should simply ban gifts worth more than DKK 5 000. It might be nice to know if the alternative has some figures on how many politicians receive gifts worth more than 5,000 kroner. Now I know I'm just a lieutenant, but I've been in here for 14 years, and I can't remember getting anything. I've had two bottles of red wine and something like that, but 5,000 kroner. the juice is a lot of money. I do not believe that this is a particularly extensive phenomenon. It is also the case that we, as elected representatives, have the register of office so that we can report the things we get and if we get gifts, we can, like all sorts of other people in this country, tax them, self-declare them as income, if they are gifts worth more than DKr 3 000. I would say that was quite natural, otherwise there is tax evasion, that is, if you do not report gifts that you have received at a value above it, in the form of official or work gifts from employers or others. So I think this motion for a resolution is trying to kick in an open door. That's kind of what we call a feel good proposal. Well, the alternative would like to claim that they're a little better than the rest of us in terms of looking at this challenge, and all honor and respect for it. We don't mind discussing that, but I just don't believe that there's so much to come by in relation to these things. I also find it a pity that the word corruption appears so many times. When you look at all the statements that have been made over the last 20-25 years by Transparency International, you can see that Denmark has been in an undisputed top three in all measurements. We are the least corrupt country in the world, and we must remain so. That is why we also have the safeguards that we have. We have a penal code, as the Minister of Justice explained, which of course also states that we, as politicians and elected representatives, must not receive these types of gifts. There are rules for that. There is also a tax law under which they must be registered if they exceed a certain value. And then we also have a register of posts that we, as elected representatives, write our things into. Some then choose not to do so, and then you have to take the discussion with them, but that is another aspect of the matter. In any case, after our optics, it's an open door you try to kick in. Now I also noted that Mr. René Gade of the Alternative himself said that he had a presumption that it was quite extensive. Well, that's quite a claim anyway. Sir. At least René Gade is welcome to come up and see my office. I have a large bookcase on which all my gifts stand, and we like to call it the ugly bookcase, because it says the jugs. I must not say that. I do not apologize for anything that has a higher value than a symbolic and historical value, something that I can show my grandchildren when I get one of these. But it's not something that moves anything in this respect. So we reject the alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140059	Thank you. Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140102	I certainly think there is scope to be sought. That is not necessarily wrong, but then we can have a debate on how much it is. The rapporteur does not seem to know how many gifts are given to over 5,000 kroner. or over 1,000 kroner. What I can promise is that neither do I. It may be, it is very, very few, but I think it is essential to have an overview, not least here in the Folketing, but also around the country. That is why we have said elected representatives. If we have guidelines for what is as clear as they should be today, then that is just good. It's just very difficult for me to see that it couldn't be sensible to get a look at it like when we've talked about a register of what funds give money to. There is not always full support for this either. Nor is there always full support for seeing where funding for parties from donors comes from. We ourselves have experienced in the alternative that, come on, it may backfire if there is no control of where the funds come from. I simply do not see that transparency will harm. I would be quite willing in a job to find out that this is too bureaucratic, it makes no sense, people were right, there are no gift donations at all. But I cannot understand why tickets, concerts, whatever, as a politician in parliament, are offered to me. I myself have a few examples, which I will give you, not to be exposed; why it must not just be transparent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140218	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140220	I'm sometimes invited to some football matches between FCK and Brøndby, but what's it gonna do when I stick with VB? You just have to learn to say no if you don't want to go. In fact, I think that today we have seen this relatively well. The Minister of Justice is up here saying he wants to go to hockey. It is, of course, a free matter, as long as we ensure that the rule we have about our tax reports is observed. I think that the law should be observed, and we therefore have safeguards in the criminal code and also in the equation law in relation to all these gifts. I do not know how expensive things are and how the alternative has the figures for their assumptions. I just think that when you come down here with a motion for a resolution, perhaps you should try to examine it a little before it is because there is a very big description of your motion for a resolution; there are eight lines or something like that and I do not believe that the scope is that great. In fact, I believe that Transparency International and others who are looking over our shoulders would have found it over the many years in which they have examined corruption cultures in parliaments around the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140334	Thank you. Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140336	We don't have to agree. Finally, I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur thinks that there is no economy in politics, that there are no gifts that can make a difference in relation to whether you have a good relationship with a politician. It could be a lunch, it could be lobbying. I often see as an old salesman that this is exactly how you create a good dialogue, a good contact. There doesn't have to be anything wrong with it at all. But it is about knowing how it is going on, who is meeting with whom, whether it is a lobby register or a fund register, and where the payment is being given, or about being able to see who is getting small, insignificant gifts from now and again. There's nothing wrong with that. If it says so, we can all back each other up on the fact that there is nothing wrong with the fact that it makes sense for democracy to work in this way. For my sake, Parliamentary politicians could from today, and it is then on their own behalf, it is not the party that says it gets double pay, I think that to the extent that we have earned. It has nothing to do with wearing little shoes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140428	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140430	At any rate, this is another discussion, namely on wage conditions and so on, which others must take. I don't want to interfere with that. I'm just relying on the fact that we have both criminal law and accounting law in relation to equations that take care of these things. We are a very well-regulated country, I would say to Mr. René Gade. After all, it is not the case that we live in a developing country in relation to digital reports. What is being proposed with this is that we should have another report for gifts received from the motion for a resolution, as it says in the comments of private companies or individuals in connection with their political duties. Proposers do not mention foundations or trade unions or other associations or anything else. I mean, you shouldn't try to investigate these things before you raise the debate here in the Folketing. I have the impression that this has been done mostly because there has been a lot in the press about hockey tickets.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140522	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Karen Ellemann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140533	Thank you for the floor. The alternative suggests here that all politicians should be obliged to register gifts of more than DKK 1,000, and a definite ban on receiving gifts worth more than DKK 5,000. And let me start by stating that the Left actually fully agrees that gifts should not, of course, be able to move a political agenda or in any way encourage elected representatives to take account of particular groups or interests. Fortunately, and several rapporteurs have also mentioned this, Denmark is one of the world's least corrupt countries. We must be both proud and happy about this, and we must continue to do so. That is also why last year we revised the law on private financial support for political parties, which has just given us more openness about private support for political parties. And it shows very well that we are constantly adjusting the rules and doing what we can to safeguard our democracy. In this context, we already have rules for receiving gifts. There is a register for parliamentary politicians where you can register gifts for over DKr 3,000, and I do not see any need to change that. I have to say that the motion for a resolution may have such a touch of distrust over itself, a mistrust which, frankly, I think is both regrettable and actually quite unfounded. Because I trust that elected politicians, whether at national, regional or local level, generally take care of the interests of their electorate and that they act on the basis of their political convictions. Because if you don't, there's a pretty high probability that you won't be re-elected at least. In the Left, we do not think we should spend time adopting ineffective or unnecessary proposals. It is important that we have openness in a country like Denmark, but we must be careful not to introduce an excessive bureaucratic solution and control of problems which do not exist. I think that is the risk in itself that it will be entirely counterproductive. And against this background, the Left does not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140752	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140754	In addition to making the scheme nationwide, that is to say that the rules governing gifts should also apply to municipal politicians and regional policyers, the main difference here is that we take the limit today called DKr 3 000 for when it should be published and set it down to DKr 1.000. And then we say that when they are gifts for more than DKK 5,000, you must not receive them at all unless there is a minister who stands in a beautiful country and simply cannot otherwise come out of a situation where the minister gets something or other handover and who is then receiving it on behalf of Denmark. Everyone is happy, and then you find out how to handle it when you get home. So, basically, this resolution is hopefully just an improvement on what we already have, i.e. we are lowering the threshold for when it is to be published, from DKK 3 000. for 1,000 kroner, and that we say that if it is 5,000 kroner, there must certainly be a special legal basis of some kind if it is to be allowed. So basically, I just think it's an improvement. There is a little talk of populism, not by the rapporteur in that word, but by others who wonder why this is really going to happen and talk down. No, not at all. We're actually just gonna make it so that people can be pious, as we used to say, and that every time you walk by a politician on the street, you cut your hat across party color and say, "Oh, my God! That's how it's supposed to be. That is what we want with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140905	I would like to say to the last part of the comment by Mr Seligman. René Gade, that it would be fantastic if you met people on the street, and they chirped with the hat over the job we have now each taken on ourselves. However, as far as the second part is concerned, and I am fully aware of what the proposal is about here, I would say that in my optics, this is bureaucracy with bureaucracy. The alternative will create a large public register to be able to sit and keep track of. I believe that the rules we have are working well, and I also think that is fair. How we each act as elected representatives, i.e. that conscience and that handling, we must be able to master individually, even when we meet the voters and look them in the eye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140944	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515140957	Thank you. We in the Group of the European People's Party think that these are some sensible ideas contained in the proposal from the Alternative. Trust in us as politicians and in the political system requires us to be prepared, even more prepared than other people, to have transparency and openness that can remove any doubts as to whether we are influenced by economic donors. That is why we have some rules on party support, and that is why it would also be sensible to have more clear rules on receiving gifts. I do not know whether the proposal here is directly prompted by the cases that have taken place, but there have been a number of cases, among others. The quota case and other things that have meant that among the Danes there has been a debate and a scepticism. In the time we are living in right now, when there is at least a distrust of the political system that we see in various parts of the world, I think we should be particularly attentive and open to discussing this kind of action. Then you can shoot the messenger, as some have done, and say that it is putting forward such a proposal here that increases distrust. I therefore think it is underestimating that this distrust exists and that, unfortunately, it is sceptical about the political system. Of course, we should not have to do this, and I do not think that the alternative rapporteur has made any fire, but of course we should be able to discuss these issues. It is also a bit funny, and I think that the alternative has also indicated that there are stricter rules for public employees as far as I am informed in relation to the receipt of gifts. There are very, very clear rules. If we should now follow the Minister's view that this is an expression of a particular distrust of honourable politicians, then one might ask whether the rules we have for our public employees should also be seen as distrust of our public employees. I don't see them that way. I think it makes sense for us to have rules because, in this way, they also protect individual civil servants from being placed in a situation where they have to judge for themselves whether it is on the right side or the wrong side. I also believe that such rules would be beneficial for the kind of public servants who sit in here, because we are also a kind of public servant. At least it is the Danes who pay our wages. The Minister says here from the platform that it can then cast doubt on the current rules. I think that may be a bit of a song from the hot countries, because of course a legislative proposal can be drafted in a way that does not cast doubt on the rules that are already in force. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party raised a number of problems in the proposal with which the donors are precisely the ones who have forgotten some in the text of the proposal in relation to trade unions and foundations? It is obvious to me, of course, that it should apply to gifts from anyone, and that is the intention of the proposers as well. You can also discuss the precise limits and what a gift exactly is, so there is clearly work ahead. But that is exactly what the government would be able to work on if this B proposal were adopted and we could also take it in committee. I think that these are the principles to which we should relate. Should it be the case that politicians, like other public servants, should be subject to some rules in relation to gifts? That's the question you have to ask yourself. I think that makes sense. We must, of course, be careful that it does not become too bureaucratic and we must be careful not to put the borders in the wrong places, but the idea itself is sensible and therefore Enhedslisten can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515141407	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515141419	Thank you. When the occasion is given, I actually came to think that I am actually getting too few gifts, at least I am in the situation that I have to buy my wine and things like that myself. I agree with Mr. René Gade and the alternative of openness and transparency, and we can all contribute that in every way. I do not know whether this will contribute to this debate, but I was thinking in the first instance that we have just recently discussed politicians and how we are perceived in relation to the fact that we so often need to discuss perhaps the shadow pages, if there are such things as that that it might carry on for that fire. I said perhaps, and thus I am not accusing the Alternative of doing so. However, we do believe that there are excellent rules, and I am also confident that politicians will respect those rules and pay close attention to it if you get something that comes close to it. I know good colleagues who simply give up a certain amount of money a year because they are out on presentations and thus get the famous two or three bottles of wine if it goes high, and if it is that in one year you are many times out, the sum of it can probably approach an amount of some kind. I do not know whether the alternative's proposal is that it is the value of single-gaver or whether it is the sum of what can be received in a year's time. Otherwise I would say that when you as an organization invite and I myself have stood on that side of the table politicians or ministers at events where you give a good dinner or lunch, the organization certainly does not perceive it as a gift you give to a minister or politician, but actually sees it as a gift to the organization that they come and participate and may even throw glory at the event by participating. So what's the value of anything? Is it also if you are invited to hockey or football, as the organisation that invites would like you to come to draw attention to and make visible its activities, matches, people, volunteering work, etc.? Because that's where the organizations are actually being delighted by showing up. So what is in this context? I just think that there may be a need to have a problematize if we are to discuss further along this path. However, we cannot support the proposal and think that we have the rules now, and it is of course up to us to comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515141656	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515141659	I have a comment to make. The rhetorical question is whether, as politicians, we are better at observing the rules than others. I don't think we are, but we just have a much bigger responsibility. It was meant as a question, but I answered it myself. I do not really think there is much to disagree with, so perhaps the question could then instead be: what should we do about it? Should we do something about it, or should we say that people, like, must tolerate that we can handle it ourselves. I just want to say that I do not think there are many of us who can do that in situations where you face a dilemma. You do it to the best of your ability, and that's 99%. of the times, hopefully, just as it should be, but the problem is that we sometimes land in a grey area, and then there is no one to protect the politician or minister because we have no clear rules in this area. There are rules, and we want to improve them today on some of the points. That is all I really want to say, because I think we have had enough questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515141750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515141752	When we discussed politics, there were a few speeches that went in the direction of what the answer really is to this, that we rank so low. Yes, it's just that we behave and do what we're expected to do, because it's kind of the strongest card, instead of committing ourselves to a lot of rules. I would like to make this my main point, that is to say that we are actually acting properly. I have said before that I have some values in my work on agreements and credibility and so on, and I have brought them in with me, so I will not suddenly accept being on the other side of it. And I actually think my colleagues here are behaving properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515141837	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515141840	There I am of a different opinion, because I think we actually have a difficult job as parliamentary politicians, because it is so immensely difficult to make a democracy work, especially a representative democracy like ours, because it is so complex: what we are doing is hyperpolitics, because we need to know about everything. So I think it is our job to inform citizens of how complex this is and how difficult it is to navigate. So, where there may be some who think that it is to set fire to the politician's side or to get a quick recognition of the Alternative, I am not hearing the rapporteur say it is, but where you might think it is, I would say, no, it is simply to inform the maximum of how complex it is to be in here. The same is true in a town hall, for as you say something, half the city is against you, and the other half is with you. It's so complex, so the more enlightenment, the clearer the lines. That is why we have tabled the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515141925	Thank you. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515141927	Is it so hard to behave? I don't think it's hard just to have in the back of your head what you can reasonably receive if you should be exposed to it. I don't think it's that hard to have it in mind. After all, we are not in Denmark in a situation where there are companies approaching something that might look like bribery by politicians to do something specific and so on. I'm not experiencing that. Now I'm not in a position where I get close to it either, because I can't deliver if you expected it, and then there's nothing about bribe me at least. But that is not what permeates Danish business or those who are in political life, to the best of my knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515142008	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stamp, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515142021	We share the fundamental intention to create maximum openness and, in this way, the intention which I am hearing from the alternative here, which also takes up a great deal, namely clear rules. I think that may be one of the things that can bother us politicians the most, that is, it is not what we must accept, but what the rules are and what we can afford. This means that some of us will almost say no to everything, because we will certainly not do anything wrong. That's not a great deprivation either, I'll tell you. But I certainly agree with clear lines that not only will benefit the people, but it will also benefit us in here. Having said that, it is also some ambiguity in the alternative's proposal that means that we are not really able to take a position now, but, of course, before we have to vote on it, we should also do so, and gladly on the basis of further clarification. There are two things in particular. The first is about the registration of gifts, where we are somewhat uncertain about the coincidence in relation to the business register that we already have. So, is this an extension of the register where you just have a different limit? Is it a completely different system or another register? We might think so, and at least this is contrary to the principle of greater clarity and simpler rules? Or is it a question of extending this business register to include municipal and regional council members? There is a lack of clarity which we are at least looking forward to clarifying. The second ambiguity is about this maximum size of gifts, which we are not opposed to, but what are gifts? Is a study trip also a gift? For example, when I... Was it a gift with the People's Church's Emergency Aid in Palestine some years ago? Or is it a gift when someone is invited to study elsewhere as part of their political work? We must also have some clarification about that. We look forward to looking at this in committee. We ourselves have considered whether, even in the light of the debate we have had here, in relation to our own position, we should really work to draw up a report instead. We will certainly be very positive about this. What we are going to vote depends a little on the clarification that I have asked for here, but we fully agree with the intention of maximum openness and also clear rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515142251	Thank you. Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515142253	I explain more in my rapporteur's speech, but very briefly it is precisely an extension of the business register that is today, but not only can we say that it is, in and with it also includes a number of other politicians around the country, but it is the main thing. If you then came up with a new system that was even smarter, you could use it instead of the existing one, if it made sense, but two systems, I agree, for we in here would probably be overruling it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515142316	Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515142318	Yes, and then another question: What is a gift for 5,000 kroner?? For example, is it... also travel or a course?
ParlaMint-DK_20180515142326	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515142329	That is a very good question. It's not here. We have clearly written gifts, but as late as this morning some people wrote about it in a newspaper or on an online medium, and then I just had to correct it. So it was only gifts, because the other is quite a different talk. I will also go into that later on and that is why I would like to suggest that there is a debate, perhaps through a report, perhaps through some committee work, where we get help to do something, so that we get clarity and all the parties are standing next to each other again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515142354	Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515142356	I shall look forward to that, and I would also say that it is really a grey area, for example. Just the example I am mentioning here is that when you are away with an NGO working for human rights, you can think that it is just in the service of the good cause and so on. What if one is going the next week and has to go with some private supplier of some war material or whatever, where they also think they are just lobbying and defending their interests, etc.? It's really hard here. I think I can tell the difference between the two things, but there will certainly be some grey areas which I also find interesting to discuss, but where we also have the press that has to bite us in the hassle, and then the voters will have to assess what they think is legitimate in the end. But we look forward to further clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515142440	Thank you. There are no further comments. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515142458	I would like to thank the alternative for making this proposal. I also have a number of outstanding questions, but I can deal with that later. The intention to ensure clearer rules, reasonable rules that are also easy for both the population and ourselves to understand, can actually increase confidence and also secure against some of these grey areas. I was on the same trip as Mrs Zenia Stampe to Palestine with the People's Church's Emergency Aid, and there was a programme from morning to night, and I do not think anyone would describe it as a bathing holiday. For me, it was very enlightening in relation to work to see how the money we spend on development aid is spent. After all, we also have a duty to ensure that they are properly used. It wasn't clear to me whether it was a gift or not. Of course, I informed you about this register that I have received this journey, but for me it was a long way from that and then someone had invited me to some southern island, and then you could lie by a pool. But where is the limit? as Mrs. Zenia Stamp asks. If you are away for a few days or a week and you have only admitted a few factual, professional elements, is that a gift? That's what we're gonna have to decide. I think that where it is clear from a technical and factual point of view, it is acceptable to accept it. I have no qualms about having taken that trip, because it was very important in the work I had as a development rapporteur. Then there is the whole discussion about the business register. I know that the President of the Danish Parliament has also been interested in clarifying where the limits of this register, in which we have to register what we have of economic interests, are, and just have the borders drawn up and clarified whether we can simply demand that everything be registered there. As I understand it, there can be no demand for parliamentary politicians in that area under the Constitution. Then I think we should see some other ways. How can we create a system that very clearly provides a framework for this, which we ourselves think is reasonable and which the people also think is reasonable, because, as many have said, there are very clear rules in business, among public employees, etc., but fewer for us. It is most important when it is we who make legislation and also have cooperation with many organisations of interest, which may be entirely legitimate, that there is no doubt about the legitimacy of the meetings, the travels or the cooperation we have with, for example. trade unions, lobbyist organisations, NGOs, or whatever you want to call it. So I am not sure that the resolution here is sharp as it is, but the intention, as I understand it, is that we in the SF are very much in favour of it. Then it's just about finding the limit and also the definition of when a gift is a gift.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515142837	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515142849	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. In fact, I think it has been quite interesting to follow the debate that has been going on for the past hour, and I think it shows that we do not have any problems with openly discussing this kind of thing in our Parliament hall with listeners to it and broadcasting it. I think that is a healthy sign of our democracy. We must ask ourselves every time we discuss a motion for a resolution or a legislative proposal here in the Folketing: what is the problem we want to solve with what we are doing today? Several rapporteurs have said that we in Denmark have very, very high ratings when it comes to corruption, for example. That is not a problem in Denmark. There may of course be one stingy vessel, but it is handled in Denmark, and it is not my impression that there is a large shadow side that has not come out in the open when it comes to this particular question. We must, of course, have openness and we must have transparency. I also think that the debate we have had today bears witness to this fact in Denmark. If you have been sitting and following this debate, I think there are two issues that need to be raised. First of all, do you get many gifts as a member of parliament? I think you get some bottles of red wine once in a while when you're out for a presentation. Now I am pregnant myself, and that is why I would like to send the appeal now that I have the opportunity: could we not every second time instead of giving chocolate? It is true that you often get that as some form of recognition that you may have gone to North Jutland and spent your Saturday on giving a presentation for an event. It is a very sweet and thoughtful appreciation, but it is never something we demand or expect. It is not the case that we get angry and will not come back the following year if we do not get two bottles of red wine for it. In the same way, I also recognise when someone comes and gives a presentation, if I have a circle of debate or otherwise, to show gratitude for having made an effort with what is now coming to be presented or presented. Another question I have to ask myself is: do you get very expensive gifts? It's about this $5,000 limit. I simply have no knowledge of any member of parliament or colleague who has received gifts worth more than DKK 5 000 for the office of a politician. At least I have never received it myself. When I was preparing for this debate, I was wondering: I wonder what the highest amount is for which I have received a gift? I think we're out in some bottles of red wine that I haven't known the price of. Or it could be a football ticket or something. But anyway, maybe we're talking to the max. about 1,000 or 1,200 kroner, which is the value of what I have received as a parliamentarian. So I just think it is a rather important point to make in today's debate that it is not the norm, as a member of parliament, to receive very expensive gifts. As a politician, we should always ask ourselves the question: do I receive this gift with an expectation of a return? And if there is just the slightest bit of expectation of a return, it is clear that you have to say no. There is, of course, a very clear regulation of that today. Then there's this question of when something's a gift. I think that has been very well addressed. Mrs Zenia Stamp referred to this with her trip to Palestine, where Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen had also been there. In fact, I have also been travelling with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. It was for Kenya, and it was also with the People's Church's Emergency Aid. This is one of the journeys that I myself could be in doubt about how one would characterize, because there was no shadow of free time in that program. It was close from morning to evening, but the organizers asked if we would like to stay 1⁄2 days extra and have time to experience a little. None of us MEPs had time for that, but where do you draw the line, and when do you say that something gets the character of a gift? Actually, I'm not so worried about the bureaucracy in this. That is not why we in the Conservative People's Party reject this resolution. Of course, there may be cases where you cannot assess the value of the red wine: Is it above or below 1,000 DKK.? But it's most of all the signal value I can fear in this. Does it give the impression that we receive many more gifts than we do and that we receive more expensive gifts than what is real? I think it's really important that we focus on this register of jobs that we have. Everyone in the Conservative Parliamentary Group is registered in that register, although it is voluntary. I myself became aware, when I was preparing for this debate, that, for example, the trip we had to Kenya to visit a refugee camp should actually be disclosed in that register. So I have asked here the other day to know it. I think we can get better at updating each other on how the rules are and maybe send out an email annually to everyone with a reminder: Have you got updated this year? And here are the fixed criteria for what you really need to disclose. It is, of course, ultimately a personal responsibility as a member of parliament. I fully acknowledge that. But, of course, you can also do a little to help people on their way. In the Conservative People's Party, we do not support the resolution, but thank you for the debate it has given rise to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515143357	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515143415	Thank you for a good debate. It was precisely a good debate that we wanted to start and hopefully further work on this resolution. It is rare that I have been in the Chamber with a motion for a resolution in which I have seen that it has just gone through cleanly and the government has said that this is what we take, we do it before the turn of the year. I haven't actually experienced that yet. I would really like us to have resolutions made to some people who had a better chance of going through. I've seen one or two go through. It surprises me so much when it happens. So if we just get a little smarter from this debate and talk about something that may not be a problem at all, it might be good. I actually hear that there are quite a lot of people who say that we actually have the rules that need to be applied. It may be that we have it. I am just experiencing two things I would like to read about why I think this motion for a resolution is important. gifts and politicians, about some of our good colleagues, in the media about whether they are gifts or whether it is such a little trade trade merchant, whether it is friend services, whether it is one thing or another. And we can just let that pass. I shall be the first to say that if there is anything I can do for someone who is serving the country as a minister, such as working 24 hours a day I simply do not know what it is like for many of them, how it is possible to work so much it is that they have some good conditions to work under. Whether it is a flight where you sleep on a proper chair instead of being ruined when you come forward and have to make a presentation, then we have to get the perspectives in place. It's okay when you're going out and representing Denmark in my eyes. It has nothing to do with not getting a gift as an acknowledgment of some paper you have given. Nor does it have anything to do with the fact that you can't get a thing for DKK 4,500, according to our proposal, where we set a limit, which may be a little indifferent, of DKK 5,000. It might as well have been called something else. You can do that, it just has to be open. We need to be able to see who's been given a gift. It is good to hear that so many people have prepared for the debate here, although it is a relatively small proposal. It's starting some thoughts. When I had to prepare, I thought: I wonder if I have actually received something that would be included in this motion for a resolution myself. It was quite essential to find out. Then I also remembered a trip I had been on in 2016 with the American Embassy. I saw it as a committee trip, but it was they who invited, and I also think that I got some money in the form of diets and grants. So I asked to find out and get it registered. But it's the American Embassy. I have told you far and wide about the trip in the debate and all sorts of other places because I learned a lot in defence and I got a lot of good points home. Is that wrong? No, I don't think it is. It was wrong if I should have registered it. I think I should. I'll get that straightened out. But was it wrong to leave? Shouldn't our politicians be allowed, as others have told us here, to go on a journey where you become smarter and better? Yeah, they certainly do. But we just have to avoid that it is going to fill the debate and that we are shooting at each other when some people do it, and it is just in the grey area. That is why we are putting forward the alternative resolution, because we want to improve the rules we have today. Today we feel that at over 3,000 kroner. We have a duty to inform you of what it is that you have been given that gift for. We need to tell you what board positions we have and if there is economic involvement in them, whether we have incomes elsewhere. I think that is quite fine, we would just like to improve it so that from now on it should be so that, from the turn of the year, if the government introduced it, a gift of over DKK 1,000 would be given. as a politician, whether you are a city council politician or a regional politician or a parliamentary politician, it should be written into an excelark, and then there should be some who put on a fine design, and then you should be able to see it on a website so that it was open to everyone. Well, René has been to Billund down at Lego, which I also found out that I had been when I examined my brain, where I got a small copy of the White House. I don't think it'll come up to 1,000 kroner, but if it's a special edition, maybe it will. When I drove home from there, I thought that no, how stupid was it that I received that gift, because I have never otherwise accepted gifts. Now I would have done it. Why did I do that? It was because I thought yes, I might never have really thought about it before: that doubt may not be there, but when there is such a thing that comes out in the paper, and if it is a slightly bigger thing, if it is a much bigger thing and it can be entangled into any policy, and you can see that there are some politicians or ministers who act in a way, so that there can be doubts about their habitus and their ethics and morality, then it is a pity both for themselves and for all of us in here and out in the city councils and in the regions. So here from a huge line below why we have made this proposal. It's not to foster politicians. Politicians are there. We may be able to put it down over time, but right now it is all about making us as transparent and transparent as possible about our relationship as possible, without becoming a bureaucratic loop around our necks and without having to wear too small shoes. But I think we have to say no, I do not believe it, I mean it, we simply have to do it a little in theatrical style, so to show it quite clearly with hands and face and with action that we have a different job and a different responsibility than the vast majority of others. As parliamentary politicians, we simply have to pay close attention to things like that, if I say yes to getting a double VIP passport for the Skanderborg Festival, because I have been down to attend a two-hour presentation on how to act as an institution, how it works, when you hold such a festival with many volunteers, then there is nothing wrong with it. It's just a little hard to argue why my wife and I should have two VIP seats and full pass for the whole festival, but if the rules are like this today, there's nothing wrong with it in my eyes. Ethical and moral, I can only understand that there are some who stumble over it, because I get a reasonable salary. I don't think the pay we get in here is particularly high, it's okay. But we get a reasonable salary for being in here. Then why do I also need free concerts and tickets for one thing and the other? Will it make me so much smarter to go to the Skanderborg Festival those days if the ticket I get is free than if I just went down there and was there or talked to those people at a lobby meeting? These are things that I can understand when you stand outside the Castle and look in here, that it is a little difficult both to accept and then you can say peace be with it but also to understand. That is why I think it is important to have the debate today. I think it has been sober and good on everyone's part. I am sorry that we are either indirectly or very directly shot in the shoes, that it is such a bit populist, compared with the fact that we are then a little better than the others. Well, if we are, then I'm sure it's just because we've been here for a shorter time. We really want to be really good and good in here, but I don't think it's because we're generally better than some of my colleagues in this Parliament. But in the alternative, I think I have said that three or four times now and we would like to go ahead with this in a report if there is no majority. It doesn't seem like it right now. And then it has to be clarified. But best of all, if we got some of our talented consultants in one of the committees or in one of the secretariats to help us do something and now I use a word again, which can also be misunderstood, when you sit with politicians, it has nothing to do with us politicians, but we had excellent cooperation in a committee of the Tax Committee where we worked in black work, where all the parties went together and where we got help to come up with some really good conclusions and made an attitude • so we worked with this in the same way as we have done here, in terms of how we can make it here an even more democratic place. Perhaps you should look at gifts, travel, and how we should deal with it? Can we get some clearer rules so that we do not find out too late if we are new in here or never give a thought, how to do it, or else the newspapers will be clustered up to the detriment of ourselves and, in fact, the whole confidence in democracy when it happens, even if it was of a good heart and you had actually thought nothing else but that you just did something to help some organization or yourself to get a better knowledge of how our defenses work out in the big world? So thank you for the debate, and otherwise I hope that a thick line has been drawn under the fact that, in the alternative, we want to reduce politics by means of openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515144208	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515144209	I don't think it's populist at all. I think this is a very important discussion, and in such a typical alternative way it is also in a lot that you can say around language • I really do not think anyone is being pointed at. But I just took the floor because, as my colleague Mrs Mette Abildgaard mentioned, we were also on this trip to Kenya, and people can think that Kenya sounds very exotic. Now we were four days out in a refugee camp, where we stayed overnight and ate and lived. But what if we had said that if we were still there, we would really like to have a week's bathing vacation afterwards? How much or how little does it take, from saying that you think it is completely legitimate, to saying that it is something that may be in a grey area, and then to something where it is clearly just some coverup to get a trip? I think that clarifying these things is also helping NGOs and others who would like to offer such things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515144321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515144321-2	It's just a really, really good question, and I'm not gonna judge it by any means, but I'm gonna ask myself the same thing after all. Now I gave that example. There was also another example where I was going to give a presentation three weeks ago. I got paid where I was going to sleep and what I got to eat. But I got over there and invested half a day I could have spent in here, but it was about democracy, and it was exciting, and it was good. But was it a gift? I don't know. And do you have to pay something for the plane ticket you've got because you're staying on the spot? Well, that's way too small shoes for me. Our whole resolution here is, of course, far too concrete in many ways, in relation to what I think we should at all take a position on in here, but I just find that if we do not become very concrete, it will be a mess. So I haven't answered, but that's the kind of thing I'd like to find out, so that you can invite either your family or yourself on a trip where you pay for it all yourself, but where you might have had a job yourself first, if that's what you find out is the right one I don't know yet if it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515144421	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515144422	Well, that is exactly where it becomes concrete that it will be difficult, but also important, because if we only talk very overarching, it doesn't really matter. Another example is that I've been trying to make presentations at this organization, and they give those who participate, 4,000 DKK. like some kind of paycheck to do it. I really think that is strange, because I think I get paid to participate in such organisations, but I wouldn't be an idiot and not take the money when everyone else did. But then I had them channeled to a good purpose somewhere else. But then there are those bordering ones, compared to when you get paid to do something or pay for doing something. It can also be a gray area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515144503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515144504	I would just like to conclude by saying: what if we could get it done in such a way that everyone had such an insight into what we are doing in here and that people are actually really, really good, and when mistakes are made, they are corrected, and you take responsibility if you were to have something that you could just have a debate about how much you wanted to become a politician, and, as I said earlier, how much you want to pop with the flag when someone passes by, whether they are from one side or the other of the Chamber. How well it could be like the schoolteacher in the old days or the doctor, where you just knew: Those are the ones holding the city together. That should be the case with us politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515144535	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515144552	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515144607	Thank you. The motion for a resolution from the SF calls for the government to launch a series of initiatives to strengthen consumer protection in the purchase of electronic household products. The government generally works for a high level of consumer protection, which is why we also have sympathy for the intention behind the proposal. Overall, the government believes that the current rules in this area are good and well functioning. This does not mean that we should not constantly consider whether the rules can be improved yet, but for the government it is important to ensure an appropriate balance between, on the one hand, the consideration of consumers and, on the other hand, the consideration of economic operators. It is important to remember that the more demands are made on operators, the more expensive the products will be. And that is why this will ultimately affect consumers. Firstly, the motion for a resolution calls for a ban on so-called planned obsolescence. These are the situations in which a trader deliberately designs his products to have a limited lifetime. If a trader does so, it may be contrary to the rules of good practice in the Marketing Act, which falls within the remit of the Minister of Industry. The consumer Ombudsman, who supervises the Marketing Act, has stated that she has not dealt with cases where a trader has deliberately designed a product with a limited lifetime. It is therefore unclear whether there is any real problem in this area at all. Secondly, it is proposed to introduce a ban on operators charging fees for examining a product during the complaint period. If a product is found to suffer from a deficiency, the trader shall not charge a fee for the investigation. On the other hand, if the trader has informed the consumer in advance, it is permissible for a trader to charge a fee if the investigation reveals that the product does not suffer from a deficiency which could be invoked against the trader. I think that is fair enough. If, contrary to the law, a fee is charged for examining a product, it could also be contrary to the rules of the Marketing Act on good practice. The Consumer Complaints Board, under the Ministry of Industry, has reported that over the last 10 years it has dealt with 34 complaints in this area. In most cases, it has considered that the fee has not been agreed in advance between the parties and that the trader has therefore not been entitled to charge it. The consumer will then be able to get his money back. Thirdly, it is proposed to extend the complaint period. Today, a two-year complaint period applies to consumer purchases. In my view, the two-year deadline for complaint represents an appropriate balance between, on the one hand, the consideration of traders and, on the other hand, the consideration of consumers. If the complaint deadline is extended, we risk facing the consumer as it becomes more difficult for the consumer to prove that there is something wrong with the product at the time of purchase, the longer the time has elapsed since the purchase. In addition, it is to be expected that an extension of the time limit for complaint will entail a risk of price increases for the products. I find it difficult to see that this should be of benefit to consumers. Fourthly, it is proposed to require manufacturers to provide information on the life expectancy of the product and to ensure that spare parts for the product can be purchased within this period. A trader is already obliged to inform the consumer of the main characteristics of the product before a contract is concluded. In this context too, we must remember that the more demands we make on the trader, the more expensive the products must necessarily be. To sum up, therefore, the government believes that the rules we have today offer a high level of consumer protection and reflect the right balance between consideration for the consumer and consideration for the trader. Therefore, the government does not consider the basis for changing the rules and cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145007	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145011	Thank you. I have two specific questions: does the Minister recognise that Denmark lags behind a large number of countries with which we usually compare ourselves in this area, in other words both in relation to products and the warranty right and the length of it? That is one question. The second is super concrete, namely whether the Minister believes that a washing machine should only last for two years, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145037	I think it is important to look at whether there is the right balance, whether it is reasonable, what we have also compared to how many rules we set up, just to make it more expensive for consumers. I don't see that there's any idea. So you might ask: is it reasonable that a washing machine only works for two years? I have an expectation, at least unless it's always running, that it can last longer. Now I do not know much about the durability of washing machines, but I do feel that if at the time of purchase there has been an error and you can prove it, it is one thing. But I find it very difficult to see that it should make it easier just to carry on a lot of years. I really think that is what is happening to consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145127	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145128	When I used that example, it is because a German Ministry has examined a number of electrical appliances and appliances and can see that over time they keep significantly shorter and shorter time. Especially washing machines are a problem. I think it is bizarre that we have a warranty of 2 years on machines that most of us would think quite reasonably should last for longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145159	Yeah, but it has to be that way. I find it very difficult to see what a producer should get out of what I like to hear from it • knowingly making products that are bad, other than bad advertising, and that people will eventually not buy the products. I don't think you could get much out of that. That is why I think we should strike the right balance. I think most people have an interest in the fact that their products are being talked about well and that this is something people want to buy. So perhaps I think we should be careful not to create a problem that is not really there. As I also said in my speech, it is not possible to establish whether there is such a relationship as to deliberately make products that break up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145238	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the list of rapporteurs. The first is sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145253	I should like to begin by thanking the SF for tabling the motion for a resolution. It is a proposal that contains four initiatives that will increase consumer rights and make more stringent demands on producers. We have long advocated better consumer protection and therefore welcome the discussion. We also agree with the principle that our society must be better at repairing and recycling our electronic products in particular. There is a need for a clear focus that can speed up the green transition and that makes the world produce more sustainable and environmentally sound; something that is also a point in the social democracy's new green initiative. Social democracy supports the intentions of the resolution, but cannot vote for it as it has been put forward. The Folketing is currently discussing the whole spectrum of circular economy and shared economy as part of a larger agreement. We therefore believe that the content of this motion for a resolution should be taken up in the light of this agreement. This is among other things. It is important for us that this proposal does not place Danish consumers at a disadvantage. The proposers would like to see, among other things: a ban on planned obsolescence of products, a ban on investigation fees and an extension of the right of complaint and a requirement for producers to disclose the estimated life of the products. In the past, social democracy has had a desire to extend the right of complaint, and we also believe that it is good to claim that producers should provide information about the life expectancy of the product. But we are not voting for this proposal. This is an important subject which requires a comprehensive and well-prepared position, including on the legal issues raised by the proposal. As I said, we share the full intention of the proposers and would like to enter into further discussion and work on improved consumer rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145431	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145432	Thank you. It is becoming a bit of a tradition here in the Folketing that the Social Democrats say a lot, at least in part, nice things about proposals we make and then will not vote for them. I know that it is such a principle that the Social Democratic Party has, namely that it will not vote in favour of any of our centre-left resolutions. But I would like to go a very long way to meet the Socialists. Perhaps I have heard earlier that the Social Democratic Party was not so happy with the first proposal, that is to say, the ban on deliberately designing products with planned obsolescence, and I would actually like to meet the party, because this is actually a proposal that belongs better at EU level. After all, we are an open economy and get our products from all sorts of places. This is pretty well worked out. This is not just something we have just come up with, and of course it is also based on the input of the Consumer Council and others. My question is: is there anything in this that we could go on with together?
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145539	Yeah, I actually think we usually agree with SF on a lot of things. I am sorry if we sometimes vote against it, but that is also true in the opposite direction. Yes, there is a lot of what we think is really positive, but as I think I said, it is also part of a circular economy, and in something else that we have also discussed with some of our business rapporteurs, so we would like to see it dealt with more there. However, as I said, there is much of what we think is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145603	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145606	I'm sorry to hang, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen is up to it, but it is just a little frustrating when you put forward motions for resolutions, which is So, it is also a little unsatisfactory to be opposition in the way that finding common ground on such proposals can also bear in when the government, hopefully, changes, so we just promise each other that this is something we will do something about. That is why I would just like to ask again: out of the four proposals, this is the one proposal to extend the right of complaint to 3 and 5 years respectively, depending on product, something which the Social Democratic Party can say 'yes' to today, but we do not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145658	The rapporteur is allowed to frame me with a lot of things. I am here for the same thing. However, I would just like to say that the rapporteur also has to respect the fact that we also see it as part of another major agreement and are immediately positive about it. And when it is said that all sorts of organisations are in favour of it, I think it is also easy to find some organisations that could be against some of this. I think that's depending on where you put the cut.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145716	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next is Mrs Dorthe Ullemose as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515145725	I would like to thank the SF for raising the issue, which is based on a wide range of issues in this area. To the first point on planned obsolescence, I would say that this is a current political issue, although planned obsolescence is not a new phenomenon. Planned obsolescence has existed as a market phenomenon since 1920, when a company in the United States that produced light bulbs found that they could double turnover by breaking the bulb after it had burned for 1,000 hours instead of 2,000 hours. Some would argue that technological development has solved that problem because light sources can today burn for up to 10,000 hours. But technological development is only part of the problem. At a time when international companies own large parts of a particular market segment, a phenomenon such as planned obsolescence becomes an increasingly widespread phenomenon, and this may be due to the fact that large international companies create monopoly situations, with the result that the company can dictate certain conditions or conditions for the product which it would not be possible to dictate in a market with a level playing field. We look at planned obsolescence with concern because it can be a modern symptom of monopoly-like conditions in a sector. The Socialist People's Party itself mentions the artificial lifespan of the iPhone battery, and I would just like to mention Volkswagen's cheat chip as another example of planned design, which aims to increase the turnover of a company in the particular case at the expense of the environment. And here I am talking about SF's point that it is necessary that we constantly become better at recycling, because raw materials are becoming more expensive and expensive, and because there are no inexhaustible resources. Scheduled obsolescence is also a problem because it goes against that recognition. I believe that we should deal politically with a phenomenon as planned obsolescence and look forward to discussing it further in committee. With regard to the next points, paragraphs 2 and 3, which are about prohibiting companies from taking a fee for product investigation during the complaint period and an extension of the complaint period, I have read that attempts have been made with a similar bill in France in 2015. As I understand it and it may well be that I am wrong, but then that is something that we can discuss in the committee so the challenge was that France would only introduce the rules for French companies, and thus producers of, for example. washing machines in third countries their average to sell washing machines at dumped prices so that the French producers were outperformed on their own home ground. I raise the issue because we have seen similar trade strategy in relation to products such as steel and aluminium, where the European Union has had to introduce customs duties on Chinese aluminium and steel in order to prevent the European market from being flooded with cheap steel and aluminium. I do not know whether the draft law was ever implemented in France, but I would like to discuss it here in committee, and in this context I would like to see some experience drawn from other EU Member States. And it may well be that a solution has been found to the problem which the Danish People's Party can support. In the last and fourth points, it is proposed to require manufacturers to provide information on the life expectancy of the product and to ensure that spare parts for the product can be purchased within this period. I mean, I think it is too much to impose on traders that they should have a whole store of spare parts for products that may have a lifetime of 10 years. And as it is today, traders are also obliged to inform consumers of the most important characteristics of the product before a purchase is made. In this context, we should also bear in mind that the more demands we make on the operators, the more expensive the products will be. But we in the Danish People's Party think that there are many good elements in the resolution on which we would like to take a political debate further in committee. And perhaps I think that one of the tools in the political toolbox, if you can put it that way, could be that we got a little better at prosecuting those companies that deliberately cheat with the rules that we have today, rather than imposing more rules on all traders. We could, of course, look at the Ankara Agreement if it were repealed, so that it would increase consumer rights, because it would simply remove products from the Danish market that do not comply with the rules. As it is today, there is not enough control of Turkish-produced goods, sugar and sweets that are imported into Denmark, and I think it might be a road we might have to look at it. I would therefore like to take this debate further in committee to see whether we can agree on some of the elements of the resolution. However, the Danish People's Party cannot vote in favour of the resolution in its entirety as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515150240	There is a question from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515150244	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Dorthe Ullemose for the positive approach that I actually hear her expressing. It is true that in France legislation has been introduced which says that consumers must at least be informed how long a product is expected to last and how long spare parts will be available, and then they can decide on that themselves. The Consumer Council Think has done a study which shows that seven out of ten products are thrown out, although they could have been repaired because there were no spare parts for them. I've received inquiries from, among others. Danish Occupation, which is very critical of this, but I may miss it so that they play on the field and say: We can actually see that throwing out good products is something sloppy because you can't get some tiny little thing for them. That was actually mostly a comment. I would very much like to continue working on this in committee. It could be that there are single elements in this that we can find common ground on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515150346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515150348	Well, I would like to take this debate further in committee, that is for sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515150354	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515150402	Thank you. The proposal we are debating here today concerns the question of consumer protection in the case of the purchase of electrical equipment, without any definition whatsoever. It is a question of whether a ban should be imposed on producers deliberately designing products for a limited lifetime, whether it should be prohibited to charge for investigations during the complaint period, whether the complaint period should be extended and, finally, whether the manufacturer should be required to provide information about the product's lifetime. It's a lot of different things we've got here. As regards the first question, whether we in the Danish Parliament should regulate, that is. Ban electrical appliances that are deliberately designed to have a limited lifetime I would say that I may not be comfortable much inside this philosophy. Because in my liberalist mind, liberalism about someone, some might say it's so connected that if you make something bad, you have a bad business out of it, but if you do something good, you have a good business. And I have to say that it comes as a bit of a shock to me that there should be so much business activity in doing something that breaks down after a certain period of time. I therefore believe that the market will be prepared for this, and I believe that whoever makes something bad will have a worse business out of it. So I do not really believe that there is any justification for further regulation. Let me just say that we are not in a legal situation in this area. There are consumer buy rules, and anyone who deliberately designs something to break after a shorter life span than can normally be expected is guilty of fraud.He does so knowingly and so it can trigger both compensation, replacement and many other horrible things. So I do not think there is any need for further action to limit the activity of the proposers here. On the question of the fee for complaints, I must refer to what the Minister of Justice has already explained. In the case of a legitimate complaint, there is already a ban on charging. And if there wasn't a team of what you came along with, so there was nothing wrong, then you could charge me a fee. The latter is almost a necessity, because otherwise you can send everything into studies free of charge for yourself. It will only be free in the first place, but it will not be free in the end, as several other speakers have said. There is only one person to pay the bill, and that is the consumer. So everything else is going to be more expensive. Then we are talking about extending the complaint period, which today is two years old. Well, it's a balancing act, how long the complaint period should be. It is the case today that it is the consumer who has to prove that there was an error at the time of delivery, and it is very nice to have a complaint period of 5 years or something, but the longer it is, the more difficult it becomes to prove it. So I am afraid that it will be such legislation in this area that does not really matter. What is important, on the other hand, is that the burden of proof has been reversed for the first six months, so that there is something wrong, so the seller has the burden of proof that the error was not present at the time of purchase. Well, the assumption is that it was wrong at the time of purchase. The last element is that the manufacturer should be required to provide information about the product's life, and I certainly have some understanding of that. I think it is the case that in some types of trades that obligation already exists. But of course, like when you buy a carton of milk, it is nice to know just how long it can last and all the more, if you pay much, much more for the item in question. So in this area I can have some sympathy for the proposal, but I cannot really understand the consequences. I look forward to looking into that in committee. On this basis, however, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515150836	There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515150840	Thank you. There are elements in the proposal that the rapporteur almost said might not do from time to time. But I can tell you that Danish Occupation is at least preoccupied with this proposal, and they think it is a bad idea for the sake of their members. It is quite legitimate, of course, that you think that it places a burden on your members. I think that our task in here is to strike the right balance between companies and consumers, but actually also nature. And there the rapporteur's party colleague, former Minister for the Environment, Esben Lunde Larsen, said a little year ago that he sees great potential in a circular economy and that Denmark is morally obliged to go along that path. Those words fell because we have doubled the amount of electronic waste. We live in a use and throw away culture, and our planet simply cannot stand it. So I think we need to look at our neighbouring countries and say: is there any place where we still have the balance between business and consumers? Is there any place where we can demand a little more so that we do not throw out as many tons of electronic waste and household appliances that could perhaps be easily repaired?
ParlaMint-DK_20180515150959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151000	First of all, I must say that the Danish industry has turned its thumb down, that it is rare for a proposer to justify the fact that it is a good proposal, referring to the fact that someone thinks it is a bad proposal, but never mind. I do not know what has moved the Danish Occupation to have the opinion on the proposal that they have. I have explained what the Left's opinion is. Well, I fully understand the author's remarks and reference to my colleague, Esben Lunde Larsen's remarks. Yes, he is absolutely right about that, but if things are going to have to be straightened up in this way, I could doubt a little, at least in the form they have been put forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151042	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151044	The reference to Danish Occupations was now more about that, with the comments that have fallen, I do not think they think it is an indifferent proposal. I think they think it places some tasks on the Danish business community, some burdens perhaps, and we know that. And it is not, of course, because we think it is a good idea in itself to impose burdens on business. But right here, in some areas, there is a zero-sum game in relation to consumer rights and business, and we do not think that the balance today is quite the way it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151117	I also acknowledge the point of view, but I just have to say that the more one introduces this kind of thing, and the more consumer protection rules come, the more often it becomes, and often for consumers, in the end try to look at the banking world and that can also be the case here. That is why, of course, there must be consumer protection, but there must also be no more than necessary, because, as I said before, the more over-protection we introduce, the more expensive it can be for the consumer in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151150	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151152	I just thought it was so uplifting to hear the doubts of the rapporteur about whether it could really be true that there is a market that is being affected in this way, namely that someone has a business in making this planned obsolescence in the caliber as it is stated. As far as that question is concerned, we have to find out in the committee's work, as was also said, whether there is anything about it. And there's my clear opinion that SF is onto something here. Several articles I've been looking through show that they have. Several experiences from friends and acquaintances, from media that have written about it, show that there are simply products that are designed to become obsolete very, very quickly. It is about software updates which, within a year or one and a half, are simply no longer published for individual products, and that is on a scale that makes it actually a huge, huge environmental problem. So I'm thinking that if you find out in the committee work that it's true that there's simply a very, very large caliber being planned, for example on an iPad, where you don't get updates on the old versions very quickly then it can be 2 years; it can be 3 years; it can be 4 years; so products that are sold so massively globally, would it be interesting for the Left to back up the elements?
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151305	Yes, I have to say that it will run me cold down my back if it is as the questioner says it is, that is, a conscious philosophy to that extent. It may be that I suffer from being a liberal and I also believe that doing something that breaks down cannot be a good business, but you can be surprised every day. If that is the way it is described and to the extent that it is described, then I think we should look at it. But whether we should look at it exactly in the way described here, I do not know. However, we could perhaps gain experience from abroad, to which the proposers also refer at the end of the proposal. Of course we have to do it, because this is bound to be fraud. It is bound to be fraud that you go out and sell something without telling people that it breaks down, as I understand it being stated that it is happening. To the extent that this happens, as I have said, it is bordering on fraud in my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151357	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151359	It sounds like we agree that you can look into that. It is important for me to say that, fortunately, it is not all products, nor is it the case that the products will have to stop after just a year, but at least facets will be inscribed where it may be planned that they will not last long and cannot be used for so long. That was my message.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151417	I can only say that if that is the case, then it is also fraud, because when you buy an item, you expect its lifetime to be normal. It is, of course, a normal guarantee of purchase, and if it is deliberately changed, then that is what the right to purchase is called fraud.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151435	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Øjvind Vilsholm as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151442	Thank you to the SF for making a very good proposal. It is certainly so good that Enhedslisten can support it overall. This corresponds well to our own vision of using fewer resources and, at the same time, protecting consumers. Let me highlight three sensible things in this context: banning planned obsolescence, ensuring increased recycling and better consumer information. In relation to banning the planned limitation period, and this has been mentioned by several previous speakers, it is simply shameful that while we are facing a transformation of the economy, there are companies speculating on making their products artificially obsolete in order to secure additional sales. It has existed for a long time, and it is certainly not something that the market itself fixes, and with modern electronics it can be done in a way, so it is really hard to discover. After all, a previous speaker has also referred to the example we had with Volkswagen, who has cheated on the petrol economy. So even reputable companies are going to go hugely far to make systematic fraud, so there is no reason to trust blindly what the companies are saying. So no, the market doesn't fix it itself. Unfortunately, regulation is needed here. In order for us to secure an increase in recycling, that is another important part of this proposal. It is important to remember that when it comes to the circular economy, it is not just a question of making the products last longer; it must also be the case that we ensure recycling and repair. Again, we have to say that regulation of the large companies is part of the solution. At the same time, it is also sensible to prohibit fees for looking at the goods. Such a fee helps prevent consumers from checking whether it is their own fault that a product has broken or whether it is actually due to a defect in the product. In particular, the fact that you also have to pay a deposit is something that is helping to scare consumers from actually reusing appliances. So to ensure recycling, it is very good that this proposal also requires dealers to ensure that there are spare parts during the time the product is expected to last. After all, it is frustrating that so much of the products are actually discarded, even if they could only be recycled with a small spare part. We also think it is an excellent idea to extend the complaint period. It will also bring us to the level of the countries with which we normally compare ourselves in this area. Finally, there's this information about life expectancy. We think that is a very good move. It gives consumers a picture of whether it is a quality product or whether it is something cheaply bad that they are faced with buying. Well, is that something that lasts for 1 year or 10 years? Is that something, for example? a washing machine that is expected to handle 100 washings per year for 10 years, or can it only handle 3 washings per year for 2 years? Then you actually get something to compare with, and in this way you as a consumer will also have a good sense of when to re-anchor a product. We also think that this is a good consumer information. So overall, Enhedslisten supports the proposal from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151852	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515151856	I would just like to say thank you for the very positive reception the proposal has received from the Enhedslisten. Then I would say that a model for that asked the rapporteur a little about the fact that you had a differentiated warranty right, 3 and 5 years respectively, in relation to dividing the products into some categories, but that there might also be, and it could be fantastic, a competitive parameter in getting your products into the 5-year class, for example, because they say that our products are so good that we are sure that they can lie there. It could be nice to see that some will compete on quality and some will compete on price, but that there simply cannot be anyone who has to sell, for example, a refrigerator and say that it cannot even last for five years. Well, that's preposterous. It was actually just a comment, but I remembered the point of making it a competitive parameter simply to get it up for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152003	I'm sure that could be very sensible. Now it is not the case that we in the Enhedslisten fall completely on the tail above the tail, and I do not think that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen will make it possible for the market to secure this. But if we can make a regulation that makes the market help, then that would be fantastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152021	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152031	Thank you very much. On the Internet there are many conspiracy theories. Conspiracy theory is about the world's largest electronics manufacturers at some point held a secret meeting where they agreed to reduce the quality of their products so consumers would spend some more money. When you read the motion for a resolution we are discussing here, you may well fear that the SF has been affected by such a theory. I fully agree that we must, of course, constantly look at how we strengthen consumer rights, but quite frankly: this is going too far. It is to impose excessive burdens on business if they are no longer allowed to charge fees for investigating a defective product or if producers are required to provide information on the life expectancy of a product. The extra bill that this will entail can only be pushed in one place, and it is to consumers in the form of higher prices. I should certainly not deny that in the electronics industry too there are stumbled vessels that do so in most industries, but to introduce this regulation, in general terms, as the SF is proposing here, I think it is going too far. So rather look at how to strike down more precisely in relation to the places where the behaviour described by the proposers might take place. Finally, we also believe that the deadline for complaint that we have today over the last two years represents a very good balance between consumer protection on the one hand and the interests of business and, therefore, consumers' interests on the other hand, and, on that basis, we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152229	There is a question from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152232	I must say that I did not expect that from Mrs Christina Egelund. It is fair enough to disagree with a proposal, but to start saying that it is because one has been inspired by conspiracy theories on the Internet, I simply think it is so unspeakable, especially when it is a resolution that has elements in it from the government's own committee on circular economy, from the Engineering Association, IDA, from the consumer watchdog, the Consumer Council Think and many others that are inspired by what our neighbouring countries and countries we compare with do. It is simply irresponsible to discuss it in this way. Then you can say that you are against it, because yes, it places additional burdens on business. We just do not think today that the balance is present in relation to what are rights and obligations in relation to business and what are rights and obligations in relation to consumers, and we think it is absurd to have a 2 year complaint when it comes to products such as white goods, refrigerators, etc. It was more of a comment, but I do not really think it is fair and I am a little surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152342	That's fair enough, it's a question of style. I am glad that I then got the questioner out of the chair and then we can have a passionate debate on the subject now that we have the dialogue. I know that we must not ask counter-questions, but that is the general view, in addition to the provocation with which I am fully in favour of starting my speech, I am fully in favour of the fact that in this sector too there are certainly stingy vessels, but let us try to solve this rather than spread a huge burden, that is to say heavy, regulation over a whole industry which only sends the bill somewhere, and we know that, namely to consumers. Let us then try to be a little more precise in relation to those where there may actually be something to come for, instead of lubricating the jam thickly and punishing everyone for something that some might do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152429	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152431	It is of course fun that it should be a problem to introduce legislation against planned obsolescence, if planned obsolescence is only something that exists in such conspiracy corners of the Internet. I believe that it is France that has legislation, and this means that when there is a major debate all over the world about, for example, about. Apple phones and battery life, then you can go in and look at: Is it completely real, as Apple says, i.e. that you decrease the battery to solve some other problems, or is it simply planned obsolescence, because you want people to buy the latest version of a smartphone. The opportunity to take that discussion can only be given if you have legislation in this area. You might choose to say that we shouldn't have, and I think perhaps, on reflection, that elements of this bill will be better resolved at EU level. There is just not as much happening and it is not happening as quickly at EU level as we would like. But can I not just ask a quick question: would just 3 years' warranty not be reasonable, at least for some products?
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152537	To the specific question first: No, I think it is a good idea that we have the same complaint deadline on all types of products. It also increases transparency for consumers. So in relation to what the questioner said first, whether it is not a good idea to take the debate on planned expiry times or planned defect on, for example. Electronic products: Yes, I think that is a very good idea. And some of what is a positive gain in digitalization and knows that you are discussing products in all kinds of forums on the Internet is actually that such stories, if you experience a battery with a much shorter life than you can reasonably expect, are actually some of the things that are debated very diligently on the Internet. And I think that is really the most powerful weapon available to consumers in relation to low-quality or bad products which do not meet what can be expected. This does not mean that we should never regulate anything, but it is just to say that the debate is also out there, and fortunately for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152640	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152643	I was also just puzzled by the word conspiracy theory, but I understand it's just a provocation and a style. It's so okay, because now we've had the debate. But I think it's just the idea that this isn't right. Whether it is the proposal here from the SF or whatever it is we are talking about, I get the impression that when it is equated with the debates that can run in some online forums with the messages that come from there and with some rather substantial associations behind it, at least their knowledge behind it, does this mean that the rapporteur does not actually believe that there are the problems that the SF outlines here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152724	No, and I actually think that I said in my speech that I will not deny that there are stingy vessels, even in this industry, because most industries do. Conversely, we do not know it either, because it is not documented that it exists, and I have it in general as a fundamental principle that I think we should make legislation on the basis of knowledge and not on the basis of what we believe. If we then get an idea of whether there is a problem, that is to say if we get that knowledge, then I would like to have the basic view that we should then take a practical approach to the place where the problem is, instead of putting a lot of heavy regulation on the whole industry, which will only result in one consequence: that the products will be more expensive for consumers. I think the questioner agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152814	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152816	It is complex, and there is some new knowledge, so the common knowledge we have is here from the motion for a resolution, where it says: "Apple admits: Yes we slow down your phone, but there is a good reason for it." Then there may be all kinds of good reasons for this, but I actually think there's empire and knowledge that this is happening. Then you can have a fundamental consideration that we should not do anything about that in general, but only strike when it happens. But does it seem to be knocking down when it happens with perhaps five years late if you go to court against some of these big organizations? Perhaps it is good to be preventive, because we have at least seen that there have been some major cases in Europe where it takes a very long time, and perhaps there are only two, three places in the world, you can go in and do something about this internationally. Is it not a very sensible signal to send out here at home, that we are actually doing something about this, and then we are waiting for the big change to happen? The problems are here, of course, but I cannot really hear the rapporteur recognise that it is true that the problem is real.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515152912	I don't know how many times I have to say it until it becomes clear. I think I have now said three times that I do not wish to deny that there is a problem, and there are certainly also broken vessels in this industry, just as there are in most other sectors that operate on commercial terms. That's the way it is. But I just want to maintain that when we legislate, we do it on the basis of knowledge and not on the basis of something we believe. In relation to the more positional point that the questioner had, if it would not be a good idea to send a signal to this industry, I would say that I do not think we should use legislation to send signals, and I also have the concern that if we did so, we, as a parliament, as a legislative assembly, would always be two steps after the industry, because they are in relation to this the smarter than we are. That is why I really believe that the real protection of consumers, that is, the real opportunity for consumers to handle this type of activity, is what I said earlier, namely that the bad message that bad experiences are spreading; no one wants to buy a scam product that can be read on the Internet many other citizens have had bad experiences with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515153023	The next question is Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515153027	Now the rapporteur said that she was not so enthusiastic that the products could become more expensive as a consequence of our tightening the rules. But I think it is better that the product becomes 2 or 5 cents more expensive, so that consumers as individuals are much better protected. It is probably at the level we see the product will be more expensive, against the fact that the individual consumer, who is so unfortunate to get the Monday edition, has a better assurance of being able to return the product. And even better: we will ensure that the products can be recycled over a long period of time. So is it really understood that the rapporteur thinks that it is a bad idea for a product to become a little more expensive in order to achieve significantly better consumer protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20180515153115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515153116	I do not know where the questioner gets it from: if this resolution were adopted, a washing machine would, for example. get 2-5 cents more expensive. I think it would be more expensive. Among other things: is the fact that you can no longer charge a fee to check whether a product is defective. Is it then a carte blanche that every time you think your washing machine hasn't washed enough, a manufacturer should investigate it perhaps every 14 days or once a month, or what do I know? There's also some behavior in this that can make it very, very expensive, and that's of course a guess. I do not believe that with 2-5 cents in additional costs for a product, for example. a washing machine or a phone completely holds, but if the questioner has some evidence that it is the rental we are in, then it could be exciting to hear what it is based on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515153210	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515153212	I don't have any concrete evidence. It was more to get some proportions in the debate when the rapporteur talks about a product being more expensive. I think that we will then have to have some concrete examples of this, and that could then be looked at in the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515153228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515153230	The questioner, of course, has the point that there is a fundamental position in it. In other words, I am most in favour of trying to strike down where the problem may arise, whereas the questioner is in favour of punishing the whole industry, so to speak, even those who actually supply good products and treat their customers properly, so that their products also become more expensive. I do not think that is the right way to go, but that is fair enough if you disagree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515153256	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. René Gade as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515153313	I apologize for the delay; I was so concerned with, among other things. the debate. I think, as I have also said in a few of my questions, that this is an excellent proposal that the SF has made, so we are in favour. When I first heard about it a few weeks ago, I think it was, my concern was whether this was at all something we could decide at home and whether it was useful or whether we should wait and then press on at European level. Unfortunately, it is often the case that this may be the first step, and then we will go out and become a pioneer country, if possible, in the area where we would like it to be international. However, I think that the elements that have been carefully examined in the course of the debate, which I shall not go into in detail, are good all four, and we have no problem in fully supporting the proposal. I should like to dwell on a few points which have been touched on in the debate. One is that I think it is really, really dangerous that I was in a dialogue with the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur on whether or not I am right or whether Mrs Christina Egelund is right, I should not be assessing if we defuse each other's proposals or messages with something that just reminds me of a word like, yes, that was the word conspiracy theory. Well, it's awesome when we talk about a development that I actually think there are many cases and examples of Apple being mentioned, and we see that there's a huge waste of products that don't last very long, but in this consumer society that we have, and which in some ways is good, we pour it into the oceans of plastics and electronics. Well, does it just need a stamp like a conspiracy theory? I think that was a positive slash of humor from the rapporteur, but it is such a thing that destroys it a little when you come up with motions for resolutions in this Chamber, and I also heard that the SF's rapporteur pointed that out. Because there's a reason you come in here with it. I myself was up earlier this day with a motion for a resolution that was not as nagging as what we see here from the SF, because we thought it was quite obvious that we would like to clarify something about how to receive gifts as a politician and how to perhaps not do so. It was such a rather short text, and here we actually see from the SF that all stakeholders are at play, or that many of them could at least be interesting, and those who opposed the proposal have also been consulted. So it is not because the proposal is not well worked out that you cannot use it for anything, but it is just because you disagree. Here it is important that we are told, here in the Chamber and in the rest of the country, that there is something about this, that there is something about the talk, and if we want to have a green transition and proper consumer conditions, this is where we have to adopt it. Then there is no point in putting our trust in the fact that there are debates on the Internet where you will have to shout so loudly that the market subsequently regulates itself because people stop buying the products. Well, this is Apple we're talking about as one of them. I use lots of Apple products, and I love Apple's design and functionality, but it's not like getting people to stop using it. Because if you first stop using Apple, you are cut off from the outside world in some areas and then have to switch to some others who may have the same competitive parameters. So summa summarum: it is absolutely essential that we take this debate seriously. The companies don't go out and do this for their blue eyes, and I understand that. If it was my business, I also think I would just treat my employees properly and make sure that we bought our products some decent places, and then I would set the prices so that I got the most out of it, and gave the profits we had for what I wanted now, or spent the money myself. It depends on ethics and morality and what you're put in the world for. So if we want to change something in relation to corporate production, it must be because we go in and say to them: Try to hear this; we will not accept that you sell white goods that stop working after 2-3 years. Well, that doesn't make any sense. So complete support for SF's proposal, and then just a recital. We were last year, I think, on the platform with a motion for a resolution to look at whether we could make it more lucrative for those who repair the products, to repair them, look at VAT rates, look at different deductions, look at how the service is being delivered. So we must also be willing to invest in making that part work better. Because it's just hard as a consumer to choose to go down and get something repaired. You have to get things there, and you have to find out: Is it cost something for me just to get the product looked at? It's also in this motion for a resolution... it may be that I've spent x hundreds of kroner and come home with the same product that I still can't use for anything, and then I've spent half a day getting it back and forth. This is not how consumers are made to change. Well, we are used to working with Spotify and with all sorts of other good solutions designed to barrierlessly get right into our everyday life. So let us look at how we can get those who repair our products to make it better and cheaper and more flexible for us. And then there's a yes to SF's proposal from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515153800	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Zenia Stampe as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515153807	It's kind of funny when you're a legal rapporteur, sometimes a few cases land on your table, thinking, "How did I become a waste rapporteur?" I don't know much about that. But, of course, I have received a little help from those who know something about it in my own party. But I also think, from the outside, that it has been fun to follow the debate, where there have been words like conspiracy theory and so on. Let's go. For me as an outsider, it is quite clear that this is also an ideological issue. After all, it is about whether you want a circular economy, where things are recycled and as little waste is produced as possible, or whether you want such a waste economy, which can of course be really good for capitalism, because there are just goods going over the counter, and things are aging quickly, so people have to go out and buy something new. I'm sure you can say a lot of good things about that. But if you also have the environment as part of the equation, and indeed jobs, because there are also jobs in repairing some of these things, then it looks different. That is why I am certainly not on the team that says that it is conspiracy theory and so on. I'm on the team that thinks this is ideology, but it's also incredibly important. It is also extremely important politically to have the courage to take the lead and not to be afraid of touching and to say that it is the free market, and it must take care of itself and so on. etc. After all, it is we as politicians who set out a direction, and we want an economy that is not just about dragging things over the counter, because then the factories get bigger and the economy gets going and so on, but that we also take into account things like the environment, local jobs etc., but then we have to take a position on such things here. So to my more specific, detailed speech: we support the intention that products should last longer. This applies in particular to electrical appliances which have a high environmental impact. Longer durability for products and better ability for repair is a key part of circular economy. It is better to avoid waste than to use energy to treat waste. Treatment of waste should always be a priority in avoiding waste. It follows from the waste hierarchy, which for me is a new word I have learned for today's occasion. Contrary to what many people think, Denmark is not actually a pioneering country in this area. Several other countries have stricter requirements than Denmark, and it might be interesting to look at some of the experiences to find a model that works and suits Danish conditions and that ensures real environmental benefits. However, basically for all elements of the proposal, it is of course best that it is regulated at EU level. Unfortunately, on some points the European Union is far from ambitious enough, so we think it might be good to take the lead at national level. The first point is about planned obsolescence. We do not really understand how it can be legal at all to plan for a product to fall apart. But we can see that there are products which keep remarkably short time, for example. your phone, which is at least going to be slow quite quickly. Of course, we must bear in mind that it is sometimes consumers who want to replace, for example. because you need something new, or that the old phone no longer meets your requirements. But that is why we also desperately need companies that take responsibility and buy old products back to upgrade them. We fully agree with the intention, but we think that it should be raised to a European level where Denmark should work hard to get it introduced. Some companies may bypass Denmark if we go alone. If we go with the European Union, we will be stronger. We are a little uncertain whether this is something that we can introduce in Denmark alone without going into carambola with the internal market. But we are not rejecting it, because we think it is going too slowly at European level. The second point concerns banning companies from taking a fee for product examination during the complaint period. We can fully support that. It is clear that, as a consumer, if it is likely to cost money, it will stop repairing. The third point concerns extending the complaint period. If you do that in other countries, we do not see what the problem should be in Denmark. We hope that the status of other countries can be examined and some experience gathered. Of course, we quickly come to a discussion on how long the warranty should be. Perhaps you can link it to the point about life expectancy, so the warranty was a certain percentage of the life expectancy. Thus, producers were also required to compete on that parameter. The fourth point concerns requiring manufacturers to provide information on the estimated lifetime of the product and to ensure that spare parts for the product can be purchased during that period. We are very positive that manufacturers should provide the estimated lifetime. It will provide an incentive to compete on lifetime and not just price. There may be some practical problems in obtaining spare parts, others have mentioned this, but we should look into that. In general terms, we are positive. Of course we would prefer it to be at European level, but sometimes Europe just does not move fast enough, and then you have a responsibility to take the lead, especially when you are a country like Denmark that wants to see yourself as a green leader nation. And apparently it is no longer only the left side of the Parliamentary Chamber that wants to see us as such. So here is a very good opportunity to prove that that is also something you think. That is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515154315	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's mr. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515154324	SF has put forward a proposal containing four initiatives to improve consumer protection and conditions for recycling and circular economy in Denmark. Let me start by emphasising that in Denmark we have one of the world's best rules in terms of consumer protection, rules on reuse and durability. Of course, we can always do better. In the Conservative People's Party, it is important for us that consumer goods are produced in a sound manner, have a certain quality and that consumer rights are guaranteed. That is why we also have sympathy for the intention behind the SF's proposal. However, in developing these rules, we must strike a balance between the interests of the consumer and those of traders. The question is whether the proposed initiatives help the consumer sufficiently to defend the genes that will be imposed on traders. We must also bear in mind that we also have a responsibility to ensure that costs do not become excessive. They will ultimately hit the consumer. Firstly, SF wants to do something about planned obsolescence. This is particularly true of consumer electronics. Some believe that companies deliberately design their products to break up after a certain number of years. That cannot be rejected. But we do not know the extent of this problem. SF wants to impose a ban. Should this be a problem and we do not know if it is a problem that concerns large international companies. If we introduce a ban in Denmark, we will only have a worse committee and introduce costs for traders as well as for the authorities responsible for enforcing this ban. SF also wants to impose a ban on fees in complaints. The rules are now such that if the consumer finds a defect in the product which can be relied upon against the producer, no fee may be charged. On the other hand, the consumer must pay for the survey himself if it turns out that nothing is missing about the product. We think that is fair enough. Thirdly, the SF wishes to extend the complaint period from the current 2 years. It is the case today that, in order to make a complaint, one must demonstrate that the product has had a deficiency from the time of purchase. It's only gonna be harder to prove after 3, 4, 5 or 6 years. The current two years are, in our view, an appropriate period of complaint, and it is not going to have the great benefits for the consumer that the period is longer. The fourth thing SF wants is that manufacturers and traders are obliged to provide information about the product's lifetime prior to a purchase. But that is, in fact, already in force today. The seller is required to provide information about the product's main characteristics prior to purchase. So, overall, we have great sympathy for the SF's intention with the proposal, but we believe that the current rules provide enough protection for the consumer and therefore we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515154703	There is a question from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515154707	Thank you for your speech and thank you for the positive words about the intentions, but you can't live or die from that. Conservatives want to be the green party, at least among the centre-right parties, and they have also sometimes shown their environmental heart. And that's why I'd like to ask if Mr. Naser Khader does not think that it is a problem that we, for example, have. can see that the amount of electronic waste has doubled in a few years, i.e. that minerals, resources, metals and everything is not recycled in a proper way; that we can see in a study from the Consumer Council Think that seven out of ten products are thrown out, even if they could have been repaired if there had been parts to it. Isn't that a problem with our resources? Isn't it time we got a business community moving their earnings somewhere else? Of course they must make money, but it must be more on service, updates etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515154822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515154824	Well, it's a problem that in all cases you can't repair those appliances and that sometimes it's cheaper to buy something new than to repair the existing ones. But does it have anything to do with the design, that is, the company designing them to not have to be repaired after a certain number of years? Sometimes you do not choose to repair because the spare parts are too expensive or because the hourly cost of repairing is too expensive. So it does not in every case have anything to do with that it is something that is predetermined when the product is made.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515154907	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515154910	As far as the hourly rate for repairs is concerned, I fully agree. The alternative put forward a resolution last year, which the Conservatives unfortunately did not support, to make it significantly cheaper to repair products, at least where there was no energy or environmental gain in replacing them. There may be; if you have an ancient refrigerator, it may actually be better to replace it. But it is true that many things need to be done before it makes more economic sense. That is why we are trying to put forward these proposals. But is there no area at all among these several proposals where we can meet with the Conservatives, who are the Green Party among the centre-right parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20180515154952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515154953	We are very green in the blue, and we can meet about the intentions. We have a great deal of sympathy for the proposal. And in relation to the first proposal, as I said, we accept that there may be a problem, but we do not know the extent of the problem. Compared to the repair costs, it is hard to go in and set a ceiling for craftsmen and traders. It is private companies that we cannot dictate a particular price. So it's hard to go in there and do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515155036	Then there are no more questions. I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515155054	Thank you to all the rapporteurs and all the parties today for the discussion about the lifetime of the products, the circular economy, and how we organise our economy better. I would also like to apologize for the fact that it is at the Ministry of Justice's discretion. I'm as surprised as some of you probably are. It's not that I don't like our Justice Minister; I'm just a business rapporteur and I think it was obvious there if it had just come through when we have a Minister of Justice from the Green Party in the government, but unfortunately that was not the case. As the rapporteurs have said, there are four elements to this proposal, in which I can in fact at some point consider whether one proposal should have been included here at all or whether it did not belong better at EU level, namely the proposal for a ban on designing products with planned obsolescence. There are some things it is difficult to do in a small country in an open economy. However, we can see the debate in France, for example, where cases are simply being brought against certain companies and companies because there is a presumption or suspicion that products have been artificially badly designed, so to speak. We can see that we are actually dumping much more than twice as much electronic waste as just a few years ago. We have a number of household appliances that we may not care about changing out as often as you buy new clothes. I mean, a washing machine just has to work, and when you buy it, you have of course the assumption that it can last even a few years. As I mentioned in some of my questions, the German Ministry of the Interior has made such a study of it here and can actually see at least in the German market, and it is not a small market that special white goods last for shorter and shorter periods. I am often told, when I discuss this with some people who are critical of my opinions, that all innovation will be stopped if this gets through, because new products are also new technologies, etc. I fully agree that there should be room for this. But our washing machines may not need there to be so much disruption inside that we need to replace them every two years. As we get more and more smart products, smart cities, smart homes, all sorts of things, where what is really important is the food, that is, the software, what they can do, and not the hardware, that is, the shell around, which is what is really resource-intensive, it makes the more sense to try to say to the business community: What you have to make money on, because of course you have to be able to earn money, are updates of the service, of the food, of the software in it. And then it doesn't make sense that because the software fails, we have to replace the entire hardware, that we have to change the whole fridge or TV or all of this, when it can easily be designed better for the same money. That is what the circular economy is all about: to say that we must move the economy over there, where we do not have so much waste of resources, where we do not have all that waste and where the new business model is that you make money on service, on software updating, on offering new electronic products. That's why I was a little disappointed with the Danish Business approach to this, which was very critical. Maybe you could get to know each other a little more? In other words, it could also be, since it is now a bourgeois government, that you could say: if you take some steps towards a more circular economy, then you get some other economic benefits. On the other hand, we simply need to reduce all this waste and waste. In Denmark we are good at many green things, but we have so much consumption that we would have to use several globes if the whole world behaved like us. That's because we want new computers and iPads and phones and flat screens and everything else. There we just have to adjust our consumption in a different way. This does not mean that we have to go back to the Stone Age; it means that what we need to consume will become more intangible. We can't keep throwing away so many tons of garbage every year. Then I hear again and again this criticism that if you transfer some burdens to business, the price will be passed on to the consumer. That argument is as old as Methuselah. Every time we have ever introduced consumer protection in history, we have heard the same argument: when there is consumer protection, it is sometimes a zero-sum game, and that means that business or others have to take on some things, and then it comes to consumers. I just have to ask, in particular, those parties who really believe fast in the market and in competition, whether prices, if there were proper competition among producers, would not find a naturally low rent. I think it is rather strange that in Denmark, when we often want to be in the shoes, we say: they may have some other rules in France, and it may well be that in Spain and Sweden and in the UK they have introduced some longer periods of warranty and made demands that we should expect a fairly long life for a product. I mean, when we buy a liver pie in the Usage, it also says on it how long it can hold around. Therefore, it only makes sense that the manufacturer and if any, at the manufacturer it informs about how long this refrigerator can work under normal conditions. I would, of course, like to thank the Enhedslisten and the Alternative and Radical very much for the almost unqualified support for the proposal. I would like to thank the Social Democratic Party for working with the circular economy in an effort, yes, it is very good that you are doing so. And I would really like to thank DF for many positive bars. I thought that was really nice. After all, this is both about better use of resources and our environment, but it is also about consumer protection. And I fully agree with some of the comments that have been made about the fact that we are getting bigger and bigger producers and businesses. If competition first becomes poor or worse, consumers and their purses will suffer as well. That is why I am rather optimistic that we can do a committee work in which we can somehow move forward along this path, not necessarily exactly as our proposal looks, but at least with some of the elements in it. So I think it's been nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515155857	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515155911	Thank you. I noted what the rapporteur said in his speech on the discussion that this expenditure will be passed on. In other words, there are several rapporteurs who have said in the debate that if it became more expensive, and there for example. should be a longer period of guarantee, then you would find that it would be passed on to consumers to finance it, and this is a position we share in the Danish People's Party. As I understood it, the rapporteur did not share that concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515155934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515155938	I was just trying to point out that I do not think I have ever heard a debate on consumer protection or even participated in one without that argument being used. And I would like to say that for decades we have had significantly better consumer protection in Denmark, among other things. because we have legislation that is good today SF thinks it could be better but also because we have organisations and a watchdog like, for example, the Consumer Council Think, who is also constantly monitoring whether prices are artificially high and trying to point that out. I would also like to say, however, that if you buy a refrigerator that breaks after three years, it may well have been cheap, but it might have been possible to save some money if you had paid a tiny bit more to get a refrigerator that lasted five years. In this way, and I believe that there were several of my colleagues from the other parties who were involved in the business model, there can be a business model in that you just have to buy a lot of cheaply bad stuff all the time. And in the long term, everyone knows that, including one who is rapporteur in the economic field, it is not something that is necessarily common economic sense in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515160047	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515160052	No, but that is also why I do not really understand why the rapporteur does not recognise the concern of these parties today. In the debates that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and I have also participated in about credit cards and debit cards, mortgages, rate increases, bank and insurance issues • just to mention some of them • SF itself tends to use it as an argument that the money they lose on the swings they simply earn into the carousels; that it is through the fee screw and all sorts of other things that you cover up, that is, with new types of revenue, if you are charged other things. Since SF uses it as an argument in all the other types of issues for business purposes, I just wonder why SF, in this debate on washing machines, neglects even the same argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515160142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515160144	I simply cannot understand that argument, because I have discussed so many times with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party the rates of contributions, the charges and all these things that we from the SF and other parties think are totally unfair. After all, it is a lack of legislation and a lack of competition that has led banks and mortgage banks to raise their fees and prices. The Competition Authority says it's clear, it's not something I'm just making up. So there is a lack of regulation and there is no free market. There is a framework that we can set up in various ways: competition law, the enforcement of private property rights and everything else. It must always be said that something is for the sake of business and for the sake of consumers, and here we do not think that balance is working.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515160239	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It has thus been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515160255	We are opening the debate, and we are opening the debate with the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515160317	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution on illegal cigarettes. The authors of the motion and I fully agree that we must take tough action against illegal practices such as the smuggling of cigarettes. It is absolutely essential to combat this kind of crime that the police have good and close cooperation with the SKAT, and that is also the case today. Both the police and the SKAT therefore believe that the authorities have the tools and legislation needed to combat this type of crime. The proposers want specific legislation with stricter penalties in this area. As a minimum, it wants to be possible to issue an immediate fine at the moment of seizure. The area has previously been discussed both in consultation and in the context of last year's negotiations on gang package III. In this context, the Minister of Taxation has stated that the penalty for cigarette smuggling is high compared to other excise goods. The penalty is measured from the outset as a penalty of liberty in cases of more than DKK 15,000. in the case of commercial smuggling and of more than DKr 30,000 when private persons are smuggling in. This is done as a result of the rules of the Ministry of Taxation. In cases below these limits, the penalty is fine. The amount of the fine for the smuggling of cigarettes shall be calculated as twice the amount of the amount of the duty and the amount of the duty evaded. Customs duties and duties shall be charged if cigarettes come from third countries. If cigarettes are legally produced and purchased in an EU country, the Danish tax is payable. SKAT may issue a fine proposal on the spot and withhold the goods as security for payment. It is therefore possible to include the goods if the amount due is paid on the spot. I suppose that is what the proposers are thinking of with immediate penalties at the moment of seizure. If there is a particularly serious violation of customs and tax legislation, it is the rules of the criminal code that apply, and here you can be punished by imprisonment up to eight years. The police also have good opportunities to investigate this kind of crime. Under the rules of the Tobacco Tax Act, the police can carry out searches in connection with investigations into cases of cigarette smuggling. In addition, a number of coercive measures, such as detention and seizure, may be taken if the conditions laid down in the Code of Procedure are met. This is therefore an area where there is already clear and specific legislation with relatively severe penalties. That is why the government does not believe that there is a need for the part of the resolution that concerns specific legislation with stricter penalties. Then there is the part of the proposal relating to an independent code of conduct in POLSAS. The National Police have announced that they are currently registering cases in this area using three different crime codes which do not specifically concern cigarettes. In the future, the police will be able to attach one key to these three codes of conduct in order to better identify cases relating to the illegal trade and smuggling of cigarettes. This will make it possible to identify cases across crime codes and will provide a faster and better overview of the crime area. I would therefore ask the police to proceed with the creation of this search key. Finally, there is that part of the proposal which concerns a special task force. The National Police have announced that there is close cooperation between the authorities in this area, both nationally and internationally. This is particularly true between the police and the SKAT, where cooperation among others. shall be carried out through coordination of interventions, exchange of information and assistance services. This cooperation will continue to be an essential element in the fight against cigarette smuggling by the police. The police are also working with the tobacco industry on, among other things: exchange of information relevant to police action. The National Police also state that there are relatively few cases of illegal trafficking and smuggling of cigarettes and that the degree of organisation behind this type of crime is sparse. The extent of illegal trade in and smuggling of cigarettes is a very small part of the total consumption of cigarettes in Denmark. Illegal cigarette consumption in Denmark is at its lowest level since 2007, and it is, moreover, very low compared to the rest of Europe. This information is available in particular: of the analysis of cigarette smuggling in Denmark, which the National Police and SKAT have just prepared in cooperation on the basis of gang package III, and which has resulted in a number of recommendations in this area. Among other things: I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of tobacco products. The analysis also shows that no clear relationship can be identified between the illicit trade in tobacco and the gang environment. Against this background, the Government agrees that there must be strong cooperation between the authorities in this area. But the government is sceptical as to whether it is most appropriate for it to take place under the auspices of a new task force when we look at the background and look at what investigation has shown. It is also something supported by the National Police and the SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515160841	Thanks to the Minister for Justice. There are no brief comments. We're gonna move on, and that's sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515160857	Thank you. In the social democracy we see illegal trade in cigarettes as an important and major problem, not least because the sale of contraband cigarettes is a major source of income for the gangs. We cannot accept that, nor should we accept it. We want to fight the gangs, and then we also have to hit hard at the places where the gangs are hit on the economy. The illegal trade in contraband cigarettes pumps money into the gang environment, which could otherwise have ended up in the Danish treasury; money that could have gone to welfare or other benefits to law-abiding citizens. That is why we demand political action and responsibility. That is why, in the past, 11⁄2 years ago, we have called both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Taxation in consultation on the matter. With the proposal, the proposers will tighten up the penalties for the smuggling and trafficking of illegal cigarettes. We have supported this proposal in the past, and we are doing it again. In addition, it is proposed that special codes be created legally in POLSAS. In this way, the police can map out the scale of the problem, which we have virtually no overview of today. It is important that the police are able to keep track of developments in smuggling cigarettes. Otherwise, it may be difficult to determine when bets help and when they do not. That is why the Social Democrats also support the proposal to create a special code for contraband cigarettes. Smuggler cigarettes are harmful to our society. The authorities cannot control the contents. The state's treasury is being cheated on taxes, and the gang environment is being fed money. It has to be stopped. That is why I can tell you that the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515161020	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515161034	Thank you. The proposal we are discussing here today concerns the potential for increased penalties for the trafficking of illegal cigarettes, separate legislation in this area and the possibility of giving the police and the SKAT a better framework for investigating and detecting illegal trade here. Let me say about the sharpened penalties, that we always think there should be proportionality in the punishment, which is why it is appropriate to dwell a little on how it is actually being punished today. What exactly is the penalty for illegal cigarette smuggling? It's like that, as far as I understand, if you're cheating in this way for an amount that can go up to $15,000. in taxes and duties, yes, it triggers a fine, and the amount of the fine is twice the amount of the tax evaded, and of course you have to pay the tax. Of course. It is probably not much different than it is for the ordinary income tax if you cheat there, except that the limit is quite different. Because here the limit is $15,000. If you cheat more than 15,000 kroner, it triggers a prison sentence. That is where we need to go much higher when we talk about income tax. So you can at least say that in this area we have severe penalties, and that is not just any prison sentence. We have the authority to give eight years in prison for the most serious cases here. One might then ask whether there is a need to give it another tooth on the penalty screw in this situation. I don't really think so. I believe, on the other hand, that, as always in these proposals, we can look at the normal punishment. After all, we have a strange system in the Kingdom of Denmark, in which the Folketing adopts some penalties, and then we see, regardless of any penalty it is violated, that there is something completely different that is called normal penalties of typically one third, one quarter or one fifth of the penalty for the most serious crimes, despite the fact that the crime in question may have been serious enough. There is something we need to look at in the longer term here in the Danish Parliament, that is, the relationship between the measured penalties and the penalties that exist. But back to the proposal here. In the view of the Left, it is already possible to impose proportional penalties in this area and even more severe penalties than in many other areas. If we look at the part of the proposal which also mentions that an immediate fine should be granted on the spot, I must say that I certainly hope that this can be done today. If that is not possible, it certainly has the clear support of the Left. It is not the case that you should be taken with contraband cigarettes and then be allowed to go with them again. I assume, then, that the authorities will not only detain the person but also the effects and, as far as the effects are concerned, hopefully they will not be extradited until the fine is paid. If that is not the case today, of course it must be so. There is no doubt about that. The second element we are talking about is that the codes in POLSAS need to be changed. I do not know much about that, but it must of course be the case that that system gives a true picture. I can imagine nothing more than that it should be easy to include, as it says in this proposal. The last element is the creation of a task force. I just have to say that the word task force makes it run cold down my back, because if there is a word we use in a weary way here in the Folketing, then it is the word task force. Could it not be written that there are five men to be moved from one desk to another and that they should take care of this case, instead of calling it a task force? It gives memories of some American army force moving in or something like that. Because as long as there are equal numbers of employees to take off, we'll take them somewhere and move them somewhere else. We might as well call things what they are. I don't think there's any special task force in this area. There should be both means and punishment enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515161510	One question comes from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515161513	Thank you, sir. President. The rapporteur says that there must be rules on penalties. We are in complete agreement on this. And there are also criminal rules today that cover the area. But what has been, and is still the challenge, is partly that we do not get the valid records put in the right places in our systems and partly that there is insufficient police investigation of the reports coming from SKAT. So what's the point of having the really good punishments where we can come for heels and backers and all sorts of others when we just don't get there? They don't get their punishment. If you look at the figures from OLAF, the EU anti-fraud office, then you see that it is almost safe to engage in illegal trade in cigarettes in Denmark. Up to one in ten cigarettes traded within the EU's borders is a so-called illegal cigarette, either one that has evaded taxes or one that has been produced in an illegal copy factory in China or elsewhere. Even in EU countries copycigarettes are produced. Does the rapporteur of the Left not recognise that one thing is all about the penalties that are being talked about, but another is that we do not succeed and do not aim to come after those who commit the offences?
ParlaMint-DK_20180515161635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515161636	Thank you for the question. To that extent, I fully agree with the questioner. Unfortunately, I have to say that in recent years the Danish police have been in an extremely stressful situation, so the phenomenon that the questioner raises is not just a phenomenon that applies to cigarettes, but it is a phenomenon that applies to road traffic law. There has not been the police on the street to keep the same control as in the old days. This applies to break-ins, stolen goods, etc. etc. So yes, I agree with the proposers that we should not have rules here; we should not apply criminal rules and we should not have criminal rules where there are no resources to investigate infringements. That's not gonna work, and we're gonna work on it. Now the policemen are coming home from the border. They have done so in recent months and all the evidence suggests that conditions are becoming more normalized. If, at the same time, you have had a gang conflict and terrorist acts and the like, that has largely caused the police to be under pressure. However, I agree with the questioner that this situation is unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515161746	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515161746-2	Some of the large seizures, after all, were left in 2014 and 2015. I find it very difficult to see what this police action on border controls has to do with it. Is it not just something the rapporteur makes up on today's occasion, in order to make it clear that border controls are the reason why we do not come after huge parties of contraband, i.e. copycigarettes and contraband cigarettes in Denmark? This has happened over several years, so I do not understand the argument put forward by the rapporteur at all. When you talk about this about how big the problem really is, we can look at the figures from the European Union. You go in and look at it in relation to other countries. In England it is estimated that it is 20% that cigarettes are sold illegally. In Norway it is up to 50%, and in Germany it is 10%. In Denmark it is almost non-existent. Can the rapporteur give me a good explanation as to why no one is apparently doing it in Denmark, while in all our neighbouring countries it is a very large and well-grown business?
ParlaMint-DK_20180515161843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515161844	A lot of things were involved in that question. I can only refer to what I said before. The more busy the police have with other tasks, be it the fight against terrorism, whether it be border controls, it may be in connection with gangs etc., indeed, it has not been a secret from the government and the Minister for Justice that other tasks can be affected. I think that is the case here. However, we do not have to disagree more than that, as I said before, we should not have criminal sanctions when there is no police investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515161914	With this we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515161924	In the Enhedslisten we fully agree with the proposers that it is a major problem that cigarettes are smuggled into Denmark illegally. I also very much agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur that this is a major source of income for the gangs, which is why it is quite logical that we have to take action against this. However, I am not sure that this proposal is the right solution. As far as I am aware, there is already a task force working on organised crime. It's very possible that this task force needs some bigger muscles. It may also be that there has to be a separate task force working on this, but I think that at least we need to ensure that there is no duplication of work on organised crime. Part of the proposal is also about specific registration of illegally smuggled cigarettes. I think that if you change the system, we might as well make sure that we record everything that is not recorded separately today. However, if we are going to change the system, it is not enough just to register smuggled illegal cigarettes separately, it must also be the other things that are not being registered today. The last thing about immediate fines is that we can support the Enhedslisten if the Ministry of Justice considers that it will have a deterrent effect. Then we have no problem with introducing it, in other words if there is an assessment that it will have a preventive effect. In the Enhedslisten, we are, as a starting point, positive about this proposal and look forward to the work of the committee on it, but we have the concerns that I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515162123	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. Then there is access to Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515162140	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution we are debating here has been tabled by the Danish People's Party and is proposing to tighten up the penalties for illegal trade in cigarettes. The punishment for cigarette smuggling is already quite high, and we believe it should be. The fine is much higher for cigarette smuggling than it is for other excise goods. It is also possible to punish up to 8 years in prison for particularly serious infringements of customs and tax legislation. In the Liberal Alliance, therefore, we note that the punishment for cigarette smuggling is already quite harsh, which is also absolutely essential in order to combat this type of crime. But this is an area where there is clear legislation. There is close cooperation between the relevant authorities, both nationally and internationally, some relatively severe penalties and good opportunities for the police to investigate this kind of crime. Analysis carried out in connection with the preparation of gang package III also shows that the volume of illegal trade in cigarettes is quite small in Denmark compared to other countries. Against this background, we in the Liberal Alliance do not believe that there is a need for specific legislation with stricter penalties, as the Danish People's Party is proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515162304	We have a problem with the system right now, but I think the speakers are working. So we are trying to continue and there was a request for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515162315	Is there any sound through? Well, then I'll just keep going. The rapporteur was concerned about the fact that we are pleased that there is such a small percentage of this type of crime in Denmark, according to this study. But does the rapporteur not recognise that there is a very significant degree of uncertainty about this study, precisely because we are not registering it in this way in the POLSAS system, and that, moreover, we have not deployed resources to come after these contraband cartels, backers and others who are trading illegal cigarettes and copycigarettes in Denmark? The figures from other countries that are both Norway, Germany, England and the Netherlands show clearly that they have more of this type of fraud than we have in Denmark. Can the rapporteur find just one reason why this type of crime should be much lower in Denmark than in all neighbouring countries? I find it very difficult to understand the logic of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515162423	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515162424	The questioner is right that there may of course be some dark figures that you cannot uncover, because if you had uncovered them, the criminals would of course have been caught. So that logic is there in the analysis that came out in connection with gang package III. The question that remains is really a question of proportions, i.e. how hard you have to crack down on this type of crime compared to other comparable criminal acts. There we believe that both the efforts made by the police in this area and also the level of penalties for illegal cigarette smuggling are proportional and at a level that is good in relation to similar types of crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515162513	As the system doesn't work, it's fine just to mark with a show of hands that you want the word. And for the sake of the television viewers, I just have to say that we have problems seeing the speaking time and at all, but we continue. This floor has worked before without all these tools, and I'm sure it can do that today. Here you go, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515162537	Thank you, sir. President. The rapporteur again mentions this because it is not an increasing problem in Denmark, because the statistics say so. But the criticism is precisely that the statistics do not work. If you look at the figures coming from the EU, from the OLAF unit, at fraud and everything else that they are looking at, it says that in Norway it is up to 50%, in Germany it is 10%, in Sweden it is 15%. and in France up to 20%, but in Denmark it is much smaller. Couldn't it be that it's because you register a lot less from Denmark because we record fewer of the violations that are because we don't use enough resources to come after this type of illegal activity? That is what is actually at the heart of the matter. That's why we're trying to debate this in the Folketing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515162629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515162630	It may well be, and how wonderful it is that we can allow attitudes to be broken without all kinds of technology and aids. The questioner may be right about that. We do not know if the questioner has. However, in relation to the substance of the resolution, namely that we must both tighten up our efforts, but also, in particular, tighten up the penalties for illegal cigarette smuggling, we also believe that it is important to look at our criminal framework in a Danish context, in other words how we punish similar crimes. There I believe that the level of punishment for smuggling cigarettes has a natural bearing in relation to similar crimes. This does not mean that we do not recognise that there is a problem, because one illegal act is one illegal act too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515162717	I am persecuting speaking time, even if the system does not work and the speaking time has expired. We thank Mrs Christina Egelund. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Although the clock is not there, it is perhaps even more important today to note when I stand up. Or you can just hold it a little sooner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515162737	It's a deal I'm trying to keep a little sooner. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for putting forward this proposal to tighten up the penalties in cases of illegal trade in cigarettes and better opportunities for the police to carry out enhanced control efforts. There is no doubt that we are fully in line with striking down on the illegal trade in cigarettes. On the basis of the explanatory statement contained in the motion for a resolution, we are in favour of the fact that it is a large-scale organised crime which clearly contributes to the financing of criminal groups, among other things. The biker and gang environment, and we want to avoid that. In the alternative, we also have another reason to support the proposal. It is not so many days since we had a resolution in the Chamber that we wanted to raise the price of cigarettes because we know that cigarettes are extremely harmful to health. That is why we had a proposal to raise the price of cigarettes. Of course, we think it is a huge problem if we can buy illegal cigarettes, which make smoking even cheaper to an even greater extent, and that is why we want to crack down on it. Then there is also the part about the fact that copying cigarettes may contain even more harmful substances to health than legal cigarettes. There are examples that copycigarettes exceed the EU-allowed limit values, which means that they contain quite different ingredients. There are examples of camel and rat shit, sawdust and tobacco beetles. It is clear that when you cannot carry out a check and it is not legal cigarettes, it is important that we get rid of it and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515162931	If there are short remarks, you should mark with a show of hands. Next, I would just like to inform you that since there is only a hole in Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, you have to be on the platform to ask questions, because otherwise this is going in circles or whatever it's going in. But now we're moving forward, and that's Mrs. Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515162954	Thank you. It was a very good cue for me, the thing about going in circles, because sometimes I think it goes a little in circles here in the Folketing. A few weeks ago, I was standing here. There we dealt with a case which dealt with the misuse of passports, and the Danish People's Party also put forward a number of very concrete proposals on how to solve this problem from the Parliamentary Chamber. I just have to say that I simply think it is a bad thing. We have a division of power. Here in the Folketing we legislate, and then we have to have confidence, but of course trust under control, etc. etc. However, the strategy of the Danish People's Party in many areas is that if you are dissatisfied with an area, or there are just problems with an area, you think that the solution is to be found here in the Parliamentary Chamber, we are very, very distant, not only in terms of respect for the division of power, but also because, although it is another political majority who is in power right now and sitting in the government offices, we believe that the qualifications or competences to formulate the concrete solutions when we are down in the detail, as we are with this proposal, when we talk codes in POLSAS or task forces, lie with the government and not in the Folketing. As far as the sharpened penalties are concerned, I think it must also be a confession case soon that every time there is some area where you do not think it is good enough, you propose stricter penalties. Here, then, is an area where the penalties are already fairly harsh, as other rapporteurs have already examined. That would suggest that this is not what matters. Of course, what we usually find out is crucial is the risk of discovery. We can then agree on this. But why is it that the police don't give priority to this assignment? That is probably because they have other tasks, because the Danish People's Party in virtually every area pulls cases in the Parliament hall and imposes everything on the police. Border control is the best example of horror. Other examples could probably be given. And it doesn't help the police that the Danish People's Party asks us to order them to make a task force when the problem is that the resources just aren't enough. At least I think you have to ask where that money should come from. That's also how I understood Mr. Knox. Preben Bang Henriksen. Instead of using the word taskforce, tell me what kind of area the five men need to be taken from. Is it crime prevention work, or is it the traffic police, or whatever it's all called? What is it anyway? The thing about just coming and saying higher penalties, a task force, a new code is either a free round, or it is a lack of respect and understanding for the division of power, which is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515163238	Thank you to the rapporteur, and there is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, but it's gonna have to happen from here. So now we are just trying to practice it as it once was in this Chamber, namely that whoever has spoken steps down and who will ask comes up. And then the rapporteur has to stay ready to come to the floor and answer. In fact, that's what was done when I started in the Folketing. There was a lot of traffic, and you got plenty of exercise, I just wanted to say. But it took its time. Here you go, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515163312	Thank you. That is true, and it was in 2005 when I joined the Folketing. So it was something that went on over a long period of years. But I would like to sign for the reflections of the Radicals. I didn't agree with anything but the commas and the dots. This was the usual radical rhetoric when it comes to these proposals, which are actually very constructive. The Radicals do not think that we should focus on solutions and proposals here in the Folketing; we should leave that to the floor. We do not think so in the Danish People's Party. We believe, in fact, that when you are elected by the people, you are also allowed to make good proposals and good ideas and to do so on a constructive basis. This is what we are doing here in a popular parliament, and we will continue to do so. It has not been long since Mrs Zenia Stampe said in the previous debate that the solution should be found in the European Union. Now we are proposing that the solution should be found in Denmark, and that is so obviously wrong, we must not. We're gonna let the police and the Justice Department do that. However, the Radicals must themselves propose to ignore the ministers and the department, and then we just have to let everything be resolved by the European Union. And I would like the rapporteur to put this into practice: is there apparently the big difference between Denmark and the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20180515163421	Thank you to the questioner. Then the rapporteur will have to reply. And if the questioner wishes to ask again, it is a good idea to stay near the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515163430	You can do this in a number of ways. After all, we have the right to ask questions to a minister, and in this way there is an interaction between government and parliament in the sense that we control the government. And we can do that through questions. We can, for example. ask the question: Why is it that there is no code in POLSAS etc.? But why should it end up being a bill in the Parliamentary Chamber? That's what puzzles me about the division of labour. In relation to the European Union, I would say that when we are talking about the free market and so on, it is just very clever that it is at a pan-European level. However, I also said that if the European Union cannot find a way to join, then we can go ahead at national level. So I don't really think that has much to do with this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515163520	Thank you. Then we go to the questioner. And now it is the rapporteur who has to stay close in order to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515163527	Yeah, well, why are we standing here? We do that because we tried to do it the right way at first. We convened a consultation in the Committee on Legal Affairs with the Minister of Taxation and the Minister of Justice on 13 December 2016. On the basis of that consultation, we asked a number of questions about how this was handled in other countries, for example in Norway and Sweden and in France. Then we waited for 12 months until 5 December 2017, when the Folketing then received an additional answer to the question, which just made it clear that in Sweden and France there was actually experience to gain. But nothing has happened. So we have tried conciliation, we have tried committee matters, we have tried everything else and it has been over a year without anything happening. That is why we cannot belittle the fact that we are going up and making it a political matter here at Christiansborg. I almost think it just needed something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515163626	Thank you to the questioner. Then it is the rapporteur for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515163633	Well, if nothing has happened, maybe it has something to do with the fact that the police don't have the resources to give priority to this area as well. It won't be a week without us standing in this Parliament Hall and the Danish People's Party having a proposal that there is some area that the police should give priority to, while at the same time throwing hundreds of thousands of hours into police action down the border. It just doesn't add up. Well, if you're finally gonna be responsible and follow something to the point, then I actually think that the Danish People's Party should sit down and make a total budget over police hours and then tell us how to spend those hours. Because the thing about coming here with each case and saying more resources is a free round, and I think there are quite a lot of people who can see that through.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515163715	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. And then, actually, it's sir. Naser Khader, who is next in line of rapporteurs, and he is from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515163730	The Danish People's Party has put forward a proposal to strengthen the fight against the trafficking of illegal cigarettes, and they refer in their proposals to stories about organised crime that are about smuggling. In the Conservative People's Party, we fully agree with the proposers that this is a problem that needs to be tackled. The police must, of course, focus on this area, and they must have good cooperation with SKAT and the Danish customs officials to combat this type of crime. However, I am not sure that the proposed initiatives are the right way to go. The penalties for cigarette smuggling are already very high and are being penalised as a starting point for detention in cases that are above a de minimis threshold. That is why I see no reason to impose stricter penalties in this area. The proposers want to introduce an opportunity to issue immediate fines and, as far as I am aware, the rules are already such today that the police and the SKAT can issue a fine on the spot. In addition, the proposers also want the police to have an independent case key in their IT system for the registration of cigarettes. Of course, the police must create case keys to the extent that it is appropriate in relation to the investigation work. However, we do not believe that legal requirements should be introduced into such a specific part of police cooperation. It must be possible for the police to create such a case key without us having to legislate on it in the Folketing. In addition, it is proposed that an independent task force be set up in cooperation between the SKAT and the police to work with this area. The police already have excellent cooperation with SKAT in this area, which is why we see no reason to change that situation right now. We agree that the police must have the best possible tools to combat crime, including organised crime and smuggling. However, we do not believe that the proposed initiatives are the right way to go. That's why we're not backing up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515163945	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There were no markings on short remarks. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515164006	Thank you. I should like to conclude by thanking you for the debate we have had. There wasn't a hundred percent agreement, I didn't expect that either. There are different views on this, also different considerations to be taken into account, and there are also different approaches to how best to deal with the crime challenge that lies in the area of cigarette smuggling and copying. The reason why we have chosen to table it as a motion for a resolution is actually, as I mentioned to Mrs Zenia Stampe earlier today, that we have tried to do something. That is also what the comments say if they had read the comments on this motion for a resolution. After all, we have tried to go the traditional way towards a constructive approach. There has been a consultation with the ministers back in December 2016. We have followed up with questions and answers came back in December 2017. There were additional answers to the questions that we put on the basis of our initiative. It has not been satisfactory. We do not think that a sensible approach has been taken to this. We do not think that we have been interested in going far enough in the face of the challenge, just as we want to close down the sources of funding for organised crime. This is among other things. in the area of contraband cigarettes, and that is something we cannot avoid. Then politicians from different parties, like desavou, have said that this is not such a big problem, because just look at the statistics, just look at how few reviews there have been and how few fines have been imposed and how few cigarettes have been found and so on. That's where we actually have a part of this Gordian knot. It is precisely that resources are not used to register matters in the POLSAS system in the case of counterfeit and contraband cigarettes and such cases, because it is also difficult to see how many cases are involved. Is there an increasing or decreasing tendency to commit crime in this area? After all, the ministers said in December 2016 that it was both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Taxation and it is verbatim in their speeches: this is not an increasing problem with cigarette smuggling. And then you mention the figures for how many have been seized in 2014 and 2015 and 2016. One thing is how many people are seized, another is how it is experienced and how it is. If you go back to 2015, there were three big cases of contraband in terms of copycigarettes. It was in Jutland, two in Aarhus and one in Herning, with a total of 23 million cigarettes, which were registered and found in those cases. So we in the Danish People's Party think that there is good reason to take action and take further initiatives. One of the things that we have put a great deal of emphasis on is, of course, the fact that we need to tighten up the penalties for illegal trade in cigarettes and counterfeit cigarettes in separate legislation. We also believe that there needs to be a special registration in the POLSAS system so that these types of crime and their notifications are correctly registered in the POLSAS system. We also believe that much more immediate sanctions should be taken at the moment of seizure. That's what you don't do today. This must also be done even if the individual cases are subsequently dealt with and examined. Then we also propose that a task force be set up. I am sorry if some have been offended by the fact that we are using a foreign word. We are not so used to this in the Danish People's Party. I would like to change the floor to a working party if some people would like to. If that were to be extenuating, that's what it takes. However, it is important that we also investigate cases in relation to organised crime. Then we also propose that there should be an evaluation of this action at a later stage. I note that some people have thought that this is just because you haven't had time for it because of border controls. That was the point made by the rapporteur of the Left, and so was Mrs Zenia Stampe of the Radicals. It is such a rubber hammer to use, and we know it very well. It always comes. Every time we ask for some action to be taken in the area of legal policy, where we would like to see some initiatives set in motion, we are told that you could also just not ask for so much resources for border controls. I should just like to remind you that, in the time we have had border controls, we have actually had considerably larger seizures at the border of precisely counterfeit and contraband goods, of drugs and so on. In fact, we saw that last time when we had temporary border controls. Furthermore, it should also be borne in mind that if you are finally going to use the card called the border control card, you have to keep in mind that where we have the registrations is in 2014, it is in 2015, and it is also in 2016. It has not actually been in the time when there has been general border controls along the Danish borders. So you can't use it as an argument that they've stood down at Kruså and ate lemon moons, as some would like to describe it, that is, as a daily ritual. It is actually because it is quite tangible that we have a great challenge with copycigarettes. We can see it on the registrations from the European Union. Some people in this room don't like that. But it is just the case that if you look at crime and cases, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes and illegal cigarettes is estimated to be much higher than that of us in all other countries around the small kingdom of Denmark. We have thus wondered very much about this in the Danish People's Party. In any case, crime is greater in all countries than it is in Denmark. It is simply because we are not investigating cases, and that is because we are not using the right tools. That is what we want to do with this motion for a resolution. I note that the Enhedslisten is positive about this, and I note that the alternative supports and that the Social Democratic Party supports it. And then, of course, we wait at a later stage also to hear what SF thinks. However, I think it is very sensible and I should like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515164635	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Hans Kristian Skibby. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515164650	We are continuing the debate in this Chamber with a little lack of assistance, one might say. It is thus stated to the television viewers that it is our loudspeaker system here in Parliament that is out of service. I can then say that the Bureau is also working to ensure that it may be renewed, but it will not be today. We will open the negotiations again, and that is the Minister of Justice first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515164727	Thank you. The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party aims to impose a bill on the government which means that the penalty for pet theft is raised to prison for up to 6 years. In the comments on the motion for a resolution, the authors have stated that pet theft cannot be equated with the theft of other values, such as theft of pets. bikes. In order to justify this, the authors of the motion for a resolution include: stated that stealing your pet is a violent mental assault. So I have very much sympathy for the proposal. I think anyone who has had a pet has, and knows if anyone, what it can be like to lose a pet. I think we should also be careful with such individual feelings, which may be associated with having pets. This can be very difficult to take into account in the penal system. There is, of course, already a possibility, within the existing law, to differentiate the penalty for theft. In fact, theft can be punished in the range from fine to prison for up to 6 years. When it comes to pets, theft will be punishable by fines or imprisonment for up to 1 year and 6 months. The six-year penalty is applied only in the case of theft of a particularly serious nature. This means in practice that either very significant values and typical hundreds of thousands of kroner have been stolen, or theft, for example. is carried out in a particularly coarse or professional manner. This could be the case with a ram theft. The penalty for theft is based on the value of what has been stolen. Other, particularly objective, circumstances of theft are also emphasized. This applies in particular to the way in which the theft has been carried out and, for example, to the way in which theft has been carried out. if the theft has been carried out as part of organised burglar crime. But the emphasis is not typically placed on what and although I have great sympathy for the proposal, I do not think it is appropriate that theft of a particular value should be punished more severely than other thefts, because that value has a particular significance for the owner. This is, of course, linked to the fact that it can be very individual, which things are of particular importance to people. It will make it very, very difficult for our penal system. So, while I recognise the great loss, it may be, of course, to have a pet stolen, I must maintain the legal position in force, which places emphasis on the specific circumstances of a theft and not on the type of value that has been stolen. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515165003	Thank you, Minister. And I would point out again that if you want the floor for questions, you mark by show of hands, and then it happens from the platform. I can see now that Mrs Karina Due is doing so, which means that the Minister for Justice is going down and keeping ready to reply, and then the questioner is coming to the floor. It's like the good old days. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515165024	Thank you. The minister talks a lot about feelings and the fact that it's terrible to have a pet stolen. It's not just that part of what we're looking at. We simply want to put an end to the fact that animals are like things. I would like to hear the Minister: does the Minister really think it is fair that it is judged in the same way, in relation to whether you steal a dog or you steal a bike?
ParlaMint-DK_20180515165054	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515165058	I fully acknowledge that there can be at least an emotional difference between what has been stolen and what has been stolen. I just think that we should be very careful about starting to conform our penal code to what it means for the individual. Well, now I'm raised in the country, and there are cats not pets. It's some people running around outside like that. But I think that if you have a cat in an apartment in Copenhagen, it's a very important pet. And what value is attached to it? I would just like to say that I find this very difficult in the legislation, while at the same time, of course, I think that we should be careful about how many years we are punishing other crime. In other words, if we say 6 years here, I just think it is very violent, and that is why I am actually trying to recognise it and say that I understand what is behind it, but I just think it is very far to go with the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515165146	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515165159	Thank you. For many Danes, pets are an important part of family life and everyday life. I recognise that, and we recognise it. The proposers then propose that pet theft be punished under section 286 of the Penal Code instead of section 276 as is happening today. This is because, according to the authors of the motion, it does not want the theft of pets to be equated with the theft of pets, for example. A bike we just talked about. But it also means that the penalty for pet theft can be raised by up to 6 years in prison. I am not going to stand and decide what is worst to get stolen, a hamster or a bike; it is very individual. But for some Danes, it can be extremely inhibiting and intrusive to have your bike stolen, and for some Danes the bike is the only way to transport itself around. Nor will I stand by and say that a hamster should be equated with a bike... it is not up to me to decide. However, I believe that we have a reasonable penalty for the theft of both things. We need to sharpen the penalty when it is needed and when it is necessary, and the Social Democrats do not believe that there is any need for punishment here. That is why I can tell you that the Social Democrats do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515165257	Thank you. Next in line, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515165314	Thank you. I will continue where the Minister for Justice left off, because I am also one of the former pet owners, at least, and I can easily follow the problem and the ideas behind this proposal. I am not going to compare the dog to other family members, but I can just say that it is almost a family member for most people, so being deprived, for example, of the dog is too many people almost like having the child abducted. That is why this is something that needs to be punished and I fully understand the motives behind the proposal here. But we are at the same time in a situation where there must be proportions in the penal framework at home, and I have to say that if we go up and apply the penal provision in question here about the theft of a particularly serious nature, which can give up to six years in prison, then perhaps I think we are going into carambola with other rules. A six - year prison sentence for stealing the dog or hamster, or whatever it may be, is almost the same as the penalty for rape. It is 8 years after § 216. So we're gonna make sure there's a proportion of it. I would much rather look at the normal punishments and see if the courts take advantage of the opportunities available to regulate the normal punishments under sections 81 and 82 of the penal code. Of course, we will be looking at this in committee. But all other things being equal, we are today in a situation where the theft of the animal in question is punished as theft of goods by 40 days in prison. Whether it should be higher must be based on a review of the practice in this area. We're happy to take a look at that in committee, but we're not going to go up to six years in prison under these rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515165523	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515165536	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we very much agree with the proposers that this is a serious matter for the individual or for the family who has a pet stolen. A pet can mean a lot to the individual and is often considered part of the family, as the proposers also write in the proposal. If we cannot support this proposal in the Enhedslisten anyway, it is because we do not believe that raising the penalty would be preventative for pet theft. At any rate, I do not believe that raising the penalty to six years is what stops pet theft. The Penal Code already provides for a penalty of up to 6 years if the theft, i.e. the crime, has been particularly serious if it has been carried out by several people, if there have been weapons present, or if the stolen object, which in this case will then be a pet, has a special value. It is therefore perfectly possible for a judge to assess that the penalty should be more than 11⁄2 years, and we in the Enhedslisten have full confidence that the judges use this option when necessary. So we share the concern about stolen pets, but we do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515165655	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515165711	Thank you very much. I fully understand that it can be hard and painful to have a pet stolen that has become part of the family and that you care about. I think stealing other people's pets is a vile act, but we cannot support this resolution. We cannot do this because we do not believe that the punishment for the theft of special items should be increased. Now I know that the questioners will probably find it a little strange to call an animal an object, but I hardly know how else to express it more neutrally. The way in which a punishment for theft is being measured today, where the penalty can be tightened up if the value of the stolen is very high or if the way in which the theft is carried out is very coarse, I actually think it works very well. I do not think that we should differentiate on the basis of personal attachment to an object or to an animal, because that is something that is very individual. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515165815	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then I can tell you that it now seems that we are moving back into the wonderful world of technology, so that the buttons you have can be used and the speakers can probably be used too. That does not change the fact that it is actually the same speaking time that must continue to be observed. Now we've reached Mrs. Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515165838	Thank you. I share the sympathy that several people have expressed up here from the platform to the proposers and the situation that you are in if you have a pet stolen. However, we think that the demarcation is really difficult, because now the proposers themselves mention 122 reviews last year or in 2016, and I think that there may also be a difference in what kind of cases it is. I read about some case where it was something with ten parrots from some parrot zoo, and then it's about selling those animals off because they might be very fine. It could also be some other animals. There's a difference between it and stealing the family's beloved dog, almost family member, and I think it's gonna be incredibly difficult to assess, and that's why I think the demarcation is going to be difficult. There is no doubt that stealing an almost family member, like many animals, is an extreme assault on a family. On the other hand, I find it difficult to imagine that most of the cases are those dogs that have been in the family for many years. I don't know much about dogs, but does it make sense to steal a dog that's so fond of its own family and place it in another family? Is it such a case, or is it more a matter of stealing, for example? Puppies, special breeds, which are very expensive, for resale? I don't see that from those numbers, which is why it can be quite different. One might say that one where one cynically speculates in profit, I also assume that one will see it in terms of the length of the penalty. If these are extremely expensive animals you steal, I also assume that the penalty will be higher. On the other hand, it can be said that with regard to the mixed dog in a family, which means everything to the family, the emotional cost may be greater, but you can't make the dog up in a price, and then you can think that the penalty will be too low. On the other hand, I find it difficult to imagine that there are particularly many such cases, because I do not see it as a great industry to steal family dogs, because animals are as difficult to reposition as humans. Anyway, all this is just to say that we really have a lot of sympathy for the proposal and the idea and also think that in many ways it must be offensive if a dog is stolen and that it is then treated the same way as a stolen bike or a CD collection, or whatever it might be. We can understand that. But we think that opening up animals to be treated differently opens up a lot of other grey areas, where it is precisely the emotions that have to be punished, that is, the more emotions you have had for the animal, the higher the penalty, or is it the market value of the animal to be punished? We believe that this assessment will be very difficult to make, so we are voting against the proposal, but have a great deal of sympathy for it. Then I would like to say that the alternative, which could not be here now, also votes against the proposal, but would also like to express their sympathy for the proposal and understanding that it may be offensive that the stealing of a pet might be compared to the stealing of a bicycle or other material object.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515170227	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Next in line, sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515170238	Of course, all of us who have or have had a pet can only experience it as a kind of provocative when you see animals being compared to objects. They're not. They're living creatures here. In this sense, thank you to the Danish People's Party for focusing on that part of it, but we in the SF think that there are already good opportunities to punish pet theft and also punish it quite harshly, and the SF trusts that the judges can also set a fair judgment in these situations. The SF cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515170318	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. And we move on to Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515170333	The Danish People's Party proposes that we sharpen the penalty for pet Right now, the penalty is from fine to up to 1 year and 6 months. We in the Conservative People's Party understand the reasoning behind the proposal... a pet often means a lot to the owners. In judgments in these cases, the judge also takes into account the specific circumstances surrounding the the theft, including the fact that a pet has a particular significance for the owner. So that is already being taken into account today, and that is why we believe it is too far-reaching to extend the penalty to six years. That is why we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515170426	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. And so we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515170451	Imagine coming home to a house where there have been intruders. Everything is rucked, and your bike, computer, cash and everything is gone. And so is your dog, who usually stands by the door to greet you. The idea is difficult to relate to, but in 2016 122 reviews were actually made about stolen livestock. Today theft of pets is equated with the theft of objects of use by burglary and can trigger up to 11⁄2 years in prison, according to section 276 of the Penal Code. We think this is completely crazy, and I think that we are many pet owners who have a completely different relationship with our dog or cat than we have with our bike. Our animals are part of the family, and they are irreplaceable. And that is why the penalty should be much more severe than it is today. That is why we have this motion for a resolution to regard pet theft as a crime of a particularly serious nature, thus raising the penalty by up to six years in prison. We think it is time that the law did not equate animals with things and that we gave the thieves a much harder punishment. I note that the various parties express sympathy for the idea behind it. It may well be that we have gone too far for six years, but what is important to us is also that we get a dash in the sand and say: an animal is not a thing. With regard to the stealing of a hamster, I would say that I am now not sure that a hamster's theft has ever been reported. It's usually race dogs being stolen. I also note that the Left expresses an opinion that we can look at whether the courts are using the normal punishment. I am of the opinion that they do not quite. We would like to see something more focused on animals not being things. I also note that all the rapporteurs have expressed their sympathy for this, but that not a single rapporteur has tried to outline what it really does to the animal. For the bike does not care if it is stolen, but the fact that an animal that is used to being in a safe environment in a family where it has been for many years is suddenly torn out of there cannot be compared to the theft of a bike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515170736	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515170755	The debate is open. Once again, the Minister of Justice is in charge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515170810	Thank you. The motion for a resolution, tabled by the Danish People's Party, aims to require the government to propose that murderers who are sentenced to life for killing multiple persons or a pregnant person should be sentenced to life for each homicide and can be paroled at the earliest after 24 years of service. It is therefore a question, on the one hand, of tightening the penalties and, on the other hand, of tightening the rules on parole. In relation to the issue of punishment, I would like to state straight away that there must be the possibility of imposing very severe penalties in homicide cases. This is, of course, especially true in cases involving more victims. There is already an opportunity today to sentence prison for life. A life sentence means that the sentenced person must be in prison indefinitely. It can therefore, in principle, mean lifelong service. Therefore, it does not make much sense to sharpen the penalty for killing in order to measure more life sentences. As far as I am concerned, the key question must be how long are life sentences actually in prison, that is, when they are actually being paroled. According to the rules in force, a life sentence may not be paroled until he or she has served 12 years in prison. In addition, in each case, the Department of Investigation must consider that it is justifiable to parole the sentenced person. That is what it is called that it must not be inadvisable to release. In practice, life sentences are often in prison for considerably longer than 12 years, and there is no upper limit to how long they can serve before parole takes place. However, it has been a long time since the practice of parole for life sentences has been looked at. The same applies to the issue of parole of other homicides with long sentences. That is why I am pleased that the Danish People's Party, with this motion for a resolution, has highlighted the issue. It's important that homicides don't get paroled too soon. There must be reasonableness in the system and consideration for the victims and their relatives must never be forgotten. I have therefore decided to launch an investigation into parole practices for homicides, so that we can have the rules and practices properly looked into. Once the investigation has been completed, I will look at it and if it turns out that practice is too soft on murderers, I will not hesitate to take the consequences and tighten up. We can discuss this with each other. But it is important that we begin to change the rules only when it can be done on an enlightened basis. Any restrictions should await the investigation by the Department of Criminal Services, including: That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515171055	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515171107	Killing is the worst crime you can commit, and it is also the crime that is most severely punished. We in the Social Democratic Party attach great importance to the security and security of our citizens, which is why we are also pleased that murderers are in prison for a long time, but we are also pleased with the legal system we have in Denmark. We do not want to see conditions as in the United States, where people are sentenced to double or triple life sentences. That doesn't make any sense. We simply do not believe in the American legal system, not when we want a society in which previously convicted people are expected to be able to return to society and contribute to the community. The proposers want people sentenced to life to be sentenced to a life sentence for every murder they commit. If you kill two people and get a life sentence, you're gonna have to spend 24 years in prison. Unfortunately, we see more killings in Denmark, and this is a boring trend. Although we do not support the motion for a resolution here, however, we call on the Minister to examine whether there is a need for stricter penalties for the killing of more people, including, for example: pregnant women. However, as I said, we do not support the resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515171203	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515171213	Thank you. With this proposal, the proposers will ensure that persons sentenced to life imprisonment for the killing of two or more persons, including the killing of visible pregnant women, shall be sentenced to life for each homicide and shall not receive parole until 24 years have elapsed. Let me take the first one. The proposal deals with situations in which the life sentence is imposed. Let's just make one thing clear: life is life. Then there may be parole, but otherwise life is life and not, as many people think, 16 years or something like that. The question then is to what extent the legal position would be different if you could judge double life or triple life. I don't really have the imagination to imagine what it's actually gonna be like. I know they're doing it in America, but there's only one life to take off, so I'm having a little trouble finding the logic of this more life sentences. But in return, as I said before, life is life. Then you can be paroled, and today's practice is that you can be paroled after 12 years of imprisonment, and I suppose that's what the law says. I was very pleased when I saw that the Minister for Justice has indicated that he will consider the fairness of this parole as early as after 12 years in prison. Of course, this means that the Department of Criminal Services must find it advisable that they be released. On the other hand, I have to say that the crime underlying a life sentence is not minor. These are often more killings today, which is why we can very much question whether there should be a parole after 12 years in prison. Therefore, I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice will look at the rules and thank the Danish People's Party for bringing up this part of the subject. We cannot support the proposal as such, but we are very happy to take part in the debate on the possibility of parole even after 12 years in prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515171422	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515171433	Thank you. I do not really know where to start with the things that are wrong with this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party. The penalty has already been tightened up for the killing of more people, and I think that this resolution will do away with some things that are very fundamental in our legal system. Firstly, the proposal creates some confusion as to who is the executive and who is the judiciary. This proposal lays down legislation on what exactly the penalty should be and thereby confuses the division between the executive and the judiciary. I think that is a major problem. The next problem is the question of accumulated punishment. We see a crime in Denmark as a course of action, and in an action there may be many different crimes. For example: a break-in will be both vandalism and theft, but we will not punish it as two separate courses, but we will see it as one act and then punish it. The third thing that I think is wrong with this proposal is that you want to change the parole, so it won't be after 24 years. It will give a lack of incentive to behave when you have to go so far into the future in order to be on parole. It is the case today that the Detectives can refuse a parole, and perhaps that will happen in a situation where the inmate has killed several people. The fourth thing I think is wrong with this proposal is that in the proposal the Danish People's Party mentions the killing of pregnant women. It's of course really, really terrible, it's always killing, but I think it seems in this proposal as if the Danish People's Party considers a fetus to be a human being, a person. We consider an unborn child, not a human, but a fetus. It must then be said that the fact that a person is pregnant is, of course, an aggravating circumstance when a penalty is to be measured, but a fetus is not a human being. So, in the Enhedslisten, it is not, in fact, because we do not think it is serious when more people are killed when there are murders of pregnant women or murders at all, but when we cannot support this resolution, it is because we think it is a wrong solution to the problem and we also believe that it will do away with some very fundamental things in our legal system. So we cannot vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515171718	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515171725	The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party contains two elements: firstly, that murderers who kill more people must be sentenced to life for each murder and, secondly, that parole in these cases can take place at the earliest after 24 years of imprisonment. In the Liberal Alliance, we are in favour of abolishing penalty rebates, i.e. the fact that convicted criminals can obtain a reduction in the penalty by committing the crime several times. The second part of the proposal deals with the parole element. Here, in the Liberal Alliance, we think it is very positive that the Minister for Justice will launch an investigation into parole practices for homicides. In the Liberal Alliance, we think it is good to review the rules and look at practice. That is why we are quite happy that the Danish People's Party, with this motion for a resolution, has brought the subject up in this Chamber. This gives us an opportunity to debate it. It is important, both for the sake of the victims and for the sake of the relatives, that we ensure that the rules on parole are fair. In the Liberal Alliance, we will await the outcome of the investigation initiated by the Minister for Justice and therefore, at present, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515171853	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. And then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515171909	Thank you. We can understand the background to this proposal, and I listened with great interest to the Minister for Justice, who I think gave a nuanced answer, also with an open mind to look at the terms of parole. I think these two things are a tiny bit connected, life sentence and parole. Now a life sentence is for life, but then you can be paroled, and so we might avoid the more life sentences, for it seems a little strange, and then instead of looking at the terms of parole. We are absolutely not opposed to this. It may be that this is sensible today, and it may also be that it opens up some unfair cases. I assume, however, that's not how I know it's not that you're automatically allowed to be paroled after 12 years. That depends on the crime you've committed. And I also assume that a double homicide or a cynical killing of a high-pregnant in some way I was going to say ranks higher, but it's hard to make murder that way, but is an aggravating circumstance that makes it harder to be paroled than other killings. Now I should not give an example of another killing, which would then be less serious, because, by its very nature, one cannot. And yet I can understand why it is felt that different types of killing may have to be made different, including whether you commit double or triple murder or precisely the murder of a high-pregnant woman. So we welcome to look at the terms of parole. On the whole, I think we should look at the fact that some of what Preben Bang Henriksen has been up to say is a slightly larger examination of how to take advantage of the penalties, how to apply the rules on parole, etc. That is interesting, because sometimes that is what I find difficult to be a legal rapporteur, that is to say that there is one thing that is the framework and, incidentally, they can be very flexible, and then there is something else that is about how they are then exploited. This sometimes makes the debate here a little difficult, because if you only look at the framework, you might get a completely different picture than if you look at the actual judgments. And in the same way in relation to parole: One thing is what it says on paper; another thing is how it actually gets lived out in reality. We welcome that statement or explanation very much, and we will go into it constructively and inquisitively and openly. I should like to welcome the alternative, which could not be here either under this paragraph. They are legally excused and say that they cannot support the motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515172155	We just made it. Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go. And it is as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515172215	It really is! Killing must be severely punished, and fortunately so will the courts. Life sentence covers quite different periods of service, and we have examples of sentenced people being held for over 30 years. Life is, after all, a life sentence, and in the course of a concrete and thorough assessment, criminal services have the opportunity to parole after a number of years. Of course, the courts take a position on all the circumstances surrounding a crime, and it would obviously be an aggravating circumstance if a murderer had more lives on his conscience, just as various horrifying acts involving a single homicide could be an aggravating circumstance. The SF is confident that the courts are able to use the penalties that exist and that the criminal services can make a concrete and thorough personal assessment that allows the release before the actual life sentence expires.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515172328	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Then we reached Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515172334	The Danish People's Party's proposal is to sharpen the penalty for killing. In cases involving the killing of more people, the proposal provides that we should be able to award a judgment per person. killing, so that in principle more life sentences can be imposed. But it is already the case today that a life sentence involves being imprisoned indefinitely. That's why we don't know what difference it will make if you get two life sentences. It is also proposed to change the parole rules so that a life sentence can be paroled at the earliest after 24 years. Today the rule is 12 years. In addition, the D.A. is assessing whether it's safe to parole the inmate. This means that a life sentence in accordance with the current rules can easily be in prison for much longer than 12 years. I know that it is also important for the government that there is reasonable practice in this area. We do not know about this at this stage, and that is also why a study is being launched in the Ministry of Justice on how long those sentenced to life are serving, so we have some more knowledge in this area. We would also like to see the rules on parole changed if we do so on an enlightened basis. We do not support the proposal at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515172518	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, and it is Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party, who is now filling that job. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515172539	Thank you. With this proposal, we want to do something about the penalty for killing. Killing is the worst crime you can commit. It is the ultimate crime in which a person or human being dies because someone takes their life. We in the Danish People's Party have a desire to serve for many, many years if you commit murder. We do not think it is fair that, if you commit murder, you should be paroled after 12 years or may be. As it is today, one can in theory be released on trial after serving 12 years, even if one has killed several people or a woman who is visibly pregnant, and we do not like that at all, so the starting point must be that one should be in prison for really, very many years. Our proposal is that if you kill pregnant women or more people, you cannot be on parole until you have served at least 24 years, that is to say twice the 12 years in which you will typically be able to apply for parole today. I have welcomed the announcement by the Minister for Justice yesterday in the media that the government will look at that problem and I think that is worth commending. I hope, of course, that it is not just an empty statement, but that it is a real desire to look at these penalties. Precisely because the crimes are so terrible, we also think that the punishment should be equally harsh. I would also like to acknowledge that there are people sentenced to death who, after all, have spent more time in prison than both 12 and 16 years, because there are more examples of this, but we just have a desire to hedge it in, so we are sure that it will involve a 24-year sentence if it is the case that more people are killed or a woman who is visibly pregnant. Thank you to the Minister for his statement today to look at it and launch an investigation into parole practices, and thank you for all the comments made by the rapporteurs. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515172756	You're welcome. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515172818	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515172906	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to require the Government to propose that an infringement of the conditions laid down by a conditional judgment should always trigger a retrial of the person concerned before a judge. I would like to make it clear that if a person has been sentenced to a conditional sentence, it is absolutely essential that he or she abides by the conditions laid down by the court. The sentenced person has been given an extra chance, and then society, and above all the victims of crime, must expect the sentenced person to meet the demands of the sentence. That is why it is also crucial that the reporting practices of criminal justice are robust and consistent. However, whether it makes sense to bring procedural offences before the courts in all cases is doubtful, because there may be cases where it is possible to get the probationary sentenced person on the right path by giving a warning or making a visit alone. As a starting point, I have sympathy for the idea behind the motion for a resolution tabled, but I believe that we need a more enlightened basis before taking a position on new initiatives, which is why I am also pleased that, as part of the implementation of the multi-annual agreement for the period 2018 to 2021, the Department of Justice will identify the current practices for monitoring conditionally sentenced persons and will make recommendations for any initiatives in this area. I think that this is an obvious opportunity to look at the possibilities for both streamlining and making the case more efficient and at the same time ensuring consistency. As I have said, it is crucial for me that the reporting practices of the criminal services are robust and consistent, and then we shall see what that investigation gives rise to. If we get into the situation that we can see that what is going on is wrong, then I fully agree with the Danish People's Party that we should get to grips with this. However, I do not agree that this should be the case here and in all cases, and, as I have said, I will wait for the investigation of the criminal justice system and, on that basis, the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515173118	Thank you. There is, in fact, a brief comment, so I would ask the Minister to stand still. This is Mrs. Karina Due, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515173124	Thank you. With me in my hand I have an article from B.T. which has also been referred to in the comments on the proposal, where a letter has been sent out incorrectly to a woman, which is why it has come to the public's attention. It is a summons for a woman to serve, and it says in a section: Pgl. has been called 6 times both by e mail and by alm. post and are warned in recent letters that she will be reported if she does not meet. She hasn't responded, hasn't called, hasn't contacted the D.C.A., and hasn't met either. That's what the letter says, which is sent to the wrong woman. Does the Minister think that it is okay to step aside as much as six times and not to show up when it has been imposed, or is the Minister prepared to do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180515173222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515173223	I don't think it's okay at all. But what I am reacting to here is that the motion for a resolution proposes that every single time, in any case, a judge should be re-elected. And it is not necessarily certain that it is perhaps just such a completely square rule that needs to be done. But that is also why I am saying that we are now starting to find a way out of practice. Because I'm not gonna put up with that either. In other words, it cannot be the case that you get a conditional sentence, and then you can have some sort of slender practice, which the questioner just mentions there. I simply do not want to be a part of that. But I would like to spend just a little time examining what the scope really is. And then we must work together to find out what we are doing about it. It is clear that we cannot tolerate people, for example. I want six calls because of a suspended sentence, which sounds crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515173311	Does the author wish to speak on his second brief point? The questioner does not, and I thank the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515173325	It is, of course, absolutely essential for our community of law to serve the punishment imposed on them by society. It is also important that they comply with any conditions which may have been imposed in connection with the punishment. Today it is the case that it is the task of criminal justice to supervise and report to the courts if these conditions are violated. The Department of Justice therefore estimates whether the infringement is of such a serious nature as to require a new judge. The proposers want to remove the estimate from the criminal justice system and put an end to all criminal offences, regardless of their nature and background, in the courts. At first sight, we believe that a sensible balance has been struck in the way in which the current rules are put together, where the estimate is left to the criminal services, so that the courts do not drown in cases. On the other hand, of course, an infringement of the terms must also have consequences. We therefore reject the proposal, but at the same time we would like to call on the Minister of Justice to investigate the practice of the Department of Criminal Services in these cases of violation of conditions and, on that basis, to assess whether we should do more to ensure that convicted persons who do not comply with their terms are held responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515173430	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515173437	Thank you. Well, I can continue where the previous speaker left off in terms of a closer examination of how this is practiced today. In fact, we can fully support that too. For if the example mentioned by Mrs Karina Due can take place, then that is quite unsatisfactory, at least I can say that. It's making fun of the system. Having said that, the proposal is generally about what the consequences should be if a condition of a conditional judgment is not respected. Now there are plenty of conditions that can be linked to a conditional sentence. It may be that you have to do sexological treatment or alcohol treatment or meet for supervision here and there. There are plenty of conditions, and we must therefore also say that there are plenty of infringements that can take place. And that's where I miss, as the Minister of Justice said, some modulation or whatever. It cannot be said that if you are five minutes late for an inspection visit, the hammer will fall, and then the judicial system and the prison system will have to be involved in re-examining the case. So I would say that, to the extent that this is a serious problem, we must of course do something about it. We shall probably have just clarified the scale of the problem. 'Cause it's the fact that the D.A. has a lot of power in this country. So, you get a prison stay from the court, there's a big difference between being sent to an open prison and being sent to a closed prison. It is undoubtedly also a difference between being on parole and not being on parole and so on. There is a great deal of power in the field of criminal justice, a power which in many other countries would lie precisely with the courts. And that is why it is our job to see how that power is administered, and I take that as the positive thing about this proposal, namely that it is what you really want. However, I have to say that the form in which the proposal is put forward, in which virtually any terms of infringement must result in consequences in the form of court proceedings and typical imprisonment, cannot really be a part of it. But let us look at the scale of the problem, at least we are ready for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515173703	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515173711	Thank you. I think that this proposal from the Danish People's Party is quite rigid and will make some quite, quite unreasonable demands to our courts and to the criminal services. I agree that there has been a problem here according to the article referred to in the motion for a resolution, but that is one article. We have no idea how wide this problem is, how large it is, how many violations of conditions there are. If there is a general problem, and if it is the opinion of the Department of Justice and the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that there is a general problem, I think we should look at it, but I do not think we should change the way and the estimate that the Department of Justice is exercising today when there is a breach of conditions, on the basis of one article that has been in the daily newspaper B.T. The next problem with this proposal, I think, is funding. For this proposal will mean that a number of extra judges will have to be appointed if the proposal is not to result in cases of violence or rape or other cases of serious crime being delayed. None of us want that. We have often discussed in this Chamber that we would like to have a more rapid reading, and this proposal will certainly not result in that. So we in the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal because it is simply too rigid.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515173849	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515173902	Thank you very much. The fact that we in the Liberal Alliance cannot support this resolution is due to the proportionality of what is proposed. I think it would be quite a waste of resources for any infringement of the terms imposed to be brought before the courts. I really think that we have a very good system today, in which the Department of Criminal Welfare assesses whether the offence is due to the malicious will of the convicted person or whether it is a misunderstanding and whether it is possible to get him on the right track through other means. This saves the courts a lot of time, and they can easily spend that time reducing the matter that has been built up in many city courts and in the national courts. I also note that it has been agreed that criminal services should make recommendations for initiatives in relation to the supervision of suspended sentenced persons. I agree with the Minister that we should wait so that we have a better basis to discuss on. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515174004	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Zenia Stampe as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515174022	I am reminded that I may have to say something for the alternative, but I did not actually get a mandate to say anything about this matter, although I might be able to guess what they would say, but they must report it themselves. Yes, we have a lot of cases today, so what was it I had to comment on, because I have been discussing another future case, yes, judgment, down in the Chamber. I think it is a good thing that the Minister is working on a mapping of this area; we would also be interested to see what practice is. And on the whole, what are the terms? Then I have given an example, and that is to show up, but what are some other terms? Then I can't help thinking about it when I read that example, and I must apologize if I mess with a certain rhetoric, you grow in other parties, that if it is a drug addict or a homeless person who is summoned via his e-Bok's x number of times, and a letter may be sent to the population register address that he has, but maybe it isn't at all, then that could be one of the reasons why some of the terms are not respected. We can agree that is unacceptable and so on. etc., but do we honestly believe that bringing the case before a judge will help? That is where I think it is very good in the Department of Justice, because they also have the opportunity to look at the individual case and see what is the reason why these conditions are being broken. Of course you should not, but there is a difference between committing crime and being convicted for it and then not fulfilling any conditions. It must of course have a consequence, but must it be a consequence that must be decided by a judge in the judicial system? I would like to take a critical view of that. But I think that a statement and a study of practice is very sensible, both what conditions we are talking about and what is the reason why people do not comply with those conditions. After all, the resolution describes it as if people are squandering or almost speculating not to show up and serve their sentences. In other words, people who are mentally ill are also addicts. I welcome the fact that we should not have endless tolerance towards those people, but I doubt that we are doing ourselves, the victim or, for that matter, the criminals and society a service by putting additional pressure on the judicial system by giving them extra judgment, where what might rather be needed is to set aside some resources to track down those people and tell them, maybe take them in hand and say that it is now that they are going to serve the punishment that they were given. Is it not even the case that today they almost get their verdict via e-Boks etc.? You can imagine that some of the people we have in the judicial system, whom you can look at in all kinds of ways, because they have committed crime, are just so fucked up that it's really hard for them to manage this. And it may well be that the solution is not so much to put them before a judge, but instead send some social workers or police, or whatever it should be, out to pick them up and make sure that they actually live up to those conditions, because when they do not, it is not of malicious will, but because they simply do not have control of their lives at all. And that's not what they get from getting a summons to do for a judge again. I don't think they're gonna show up for that either. But, by the way, that is exactly what I expect a criminal welfare service to be able to distinguish between, that is to say, whether this is someone who cynically wonders not to show up because we have given up too long a leash, and there may well be a shorter leash, or whether it is someone who simply does not manage his life and simply does not get these messages, and whether one should consider a strategy to get them. And I think it is very reasonable that it is the Department of Criminal Welfare that has that task. However, our full support for us to have an explanation of practices in this area. Then I got warmed up anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515174442	Thank you to the rapporteur. Well, that went well anyway. So thank you for that. And the next rapporteur and speaker is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515174453	Of course, convicted people must comply with decisions taken in criminal justice, and society must not allow itself to be sidetracked by convicted people. However, criminal cases are always different from each other, and we do not know what the circumstances are, that a convicted person does not appear or otherwise does not comply with the rules. SF believes that it is just a number for square to make a proposal like this one from the Danish People's Party. Do all wrongdoings have to be no matter how trivial they may be, and no matter what explanation there might be, really trigger a new trip past a judge? That is what we say in the SF: I wonder if the Department of Justice can handle it without a detailed regulation from the Danish Parliament? We believe that, and that is why we are opposed to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515174547	I would like to thank the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515174555	The Danish People's Party has put forward a proposal to change the rules for conditional sentenced persons, so that any violation of the terms of the order must result in a retrial of a judge. It is very important that conditional sentenced persons comply with the conditions set by the judge in the judgment. A conditional sentence is one more chance. That is why police control over the area must be consistent. However, we do not believe that it is appropriate that any violation of the terms of service should lead to another trial. The current agreement on criminal justice will evaluate practices in the area of conditional sentenced persons. They will make recommendations for initiatives in this area. We would like to see the rules improved from there, but we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515174654	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I will give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and it is Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party, who comes up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515174716	Thank you. Of course, when you are a criminal and you are sentenced to punishment, you have to comply with the sanctions imposed on you by society, and if you do not do so for the first time or for the second time or for the third time, or even more than once, then the criminal services may come after you by reporting it to the court. At least that is the picture that is drawn from time to time by the way things are all connected when people will not comply with the demands made on them in a judgment. It's just not gonna work. Then confidence in the system will completely disappear if the convicted criminals are not consistently addressed. Our resolution addresses this problem. If you do not agree to come forward and take responsibility for what you have done, then a judge will have to decide again what further action will be taken on the matter. That is not to say that there must be a new trial, but a judge can decide what to do about it. As it is today, criminal justice has a very broad framework for assessing on a case-by-case basis what the consequences should be. We have the clear starting point that it should always be a judge who decides what people have to do, and it should not be the case that many times you can skip over where the burden is lowest and thus avoid being held accountable. We want to ensure by means of the motion for a resolution that a judge will be faced to a far greater extent when you do not deliver what you have to do, rather than when it is the criminal services that decide the matter individually. I think it is good to hear that the Minister will launch a study to identify how widespread a problem it is and also, as the Left has said, look at how the Department of Criminal Welfare administers the power they actually have. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515174911	Enjoy your meal and thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515175004	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 17 May 2018. I should like to ask whether there is any justification from the questioners. There is. Mrs. Karina Due, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515175012	Thank you. We've wanted this question because we've been thinking regularly about the subject of surveillance, which anpg basically is. It takes up a lot, but it is not necessarily something we discuss enough. This is a bit of a dilemma because, as well as technological developments, it is going to fill up more and more things that will provide us with many new opportunities in the future. I also think it is important that we, as politicians, discuss where the borders should lie. I hope that the Minister and the party rapporteurs will make a bid for this in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515175054	I will give the floor to the Minister of Justice for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515175100	Thank you very much. Anpg is an excellent tool for the police in their criminal investigation. It's as simple as that. The police have used anpg to solve a large number of serious crimes, including: killings, attempted murders, gang shootings and traveling criminals' thefts, but also to solve less serious crime, such as the death penalty. Traffic offences. Anpg information has contributed with crucial investigative trails, and the anpg information has enabled the police to determine which vehicle was where and when information has been of great importance to the police in the specific cases. This is therefore information that has ultimately led to the resolution of the crimes and the arrest of the perpetrators. Let me give you a few specific examples. In a shooting from the gang scene, the police had information that the perpetrators had left the scene in a Mercedes Cabriolet with a white roof. The police reviewed a list of approx. 2,000 cars that had passed a certain anpg camera for a certain period of time. Compared to the car's special characteristics, the white roof was quickly identified. In a case of forced entry by travelling criminals, there was a suspicion that a foreign vehicle had been used in several burglaries. By a wiretap of the suspect who was from Bulgaria, the police had become aware that the man crossed the border. However, the police did not know which car the man was driving or where he crossed the border. Among other things: based on stored no-hit of anpg information from the border, approx. Ten cars, which could be the perpetrator's, and on that basis the car used by the perpetrator was identified. Anpg, as I have said, is an excellent tool for the police. I therefore agree with the questioners that we should look at the possibility of setting up more anpg cameras. I have also discussed this with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party in the police conciliation circle. In the light of the discussions, the Ministry of Justice has been in dialogue with the National Police on the possibilities of expanding the number of stationary anpg locations. Within the framework of the current multi-year agreement, the National Police will set up additional stationary anpg cameras. Against this background, an increase in the number of anpg locations is expected from the current 32 to 48. It should give the police a significant boost and make the use of anpg even more effective. The question of the number of anpg cameras is one thing. Another thing is the question of how long information collected using anpg is stored. This is a key issue in relation to the use of anpg. As it is today, anpg images where there is no hit on the license plate are stored for either 24 hours or 30 days, but for example. in relation to the fight against gang crime, the police may benefit from information on where a given vehicle has been, even longer. I therefore believe that we need to look at whether we can be smarter. That is why I have asked the National Police to consider whether, in this light, the current rules can be adapted and, on that basis, I expect to discuss this with the parties behind the multi-annual agreement on the police and prosecution economy in the autumn. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515175430	We shall now proceed to the debate, and the first rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Excuse me, hold on a second. I shall see if the rapporteur for the questioners wishes to speak. Mrs Karina Due has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515175505	Thank you. How much surveillance should we accept? What should be the relationship between the need for the police to have good opportunities and conditions to solve crime and to hold criminals accountable, and the fact that we must also be able to live an undisturbed life as much as possible? I think that the issues are central, and I think that debates are going to be on this subject, and they may also increase over the coming years, partly because the opportunities are increasing and partly because technology is being developed even more in the coming years, partly because it is an issue which is of interest to everyone. That's why I think we should debate this. In DF we have never been in doubt that license plate scanners are an excellent idea. It is a very good tool, and many can see a great potential for the police to use them. If you have visited police stations around Denmark, which I am sure most court rapporteurs have regularly, then I am quite convinced that you get the clear impression that license plate scanners are a very good tool, so something the police would like to use even more than is the case today. I can then hear that it is also being expanded now. For us in the Danish People's Party, it is so important that we have a police force that can come with us and a police force that is technically equipped for the future. Anpg, which is the very little verbal name for license plate scanners, is one of the tools. It gives a very good opportunity to keep track of what certain people that the police might be interested in are doing, therefore, not whether Mr. Hansen has been down in Germany several times, picking up cheap beers, or whether Mrs. Olsen is visiting a man who is not her own. But it can also be used for much more if you are allowed to store the pictures from those cameras for a long time. So basically, it's about two things in this debate: do we need more of these automatic license plate readers around? They already sit at the borders and selected places and also on some police cars. Will we increase the number of scanners? There is no doubt on the part of the Danish People's Party: that is a clear yes to that question. Should we then do something about the deadlines that exist today for when to delete the images generated by the cameras? So that will also be a clear 'yes' from us. As it is today, you can save the pictures for 30 days when it comes to border areas or some particularly interesting areas. But for other areas you only save the pictures for about 24 hours, as I understand it. So we think that the police should be allowed to store these pictures for a little longer than today. So this is really both the fact that we want to give the police increased opportunities to hunt down certain types of criminals with this tool, while at the same time, in general, we want the information to be stored for longer so that they can be used, for example. by searching for missing persons or in the event of serious crime where, for example, the police. by locating a crime scene would be easier to narrow the circle of interesting persons if they had to store the information longer. Of course, this meant that the number of cameras would increase considerably. So we have no objection to taking a step towards more surveillance in this particular area if it means that we can potentially solve more serious crimes. What, then, is the position of all those of us who do not commit crime; those of us who really want to be allowed to live quietly and peacefully? That is where the debate goes high once in a while. There are times in the debate these false stories that it should be a violation of privacy. I must admit that I do not feel at all uncomfortable if the police take a picture of me when I drive to and from work. It's just supposed to be if I had to push a little too much on the accelerator. But that's the way it is. When I'm in traffic, they're allowed to follow where I am and store that information. I don't feel uncomfortable about that at all. I would feel much more insecure if it were the case that one day, or someone I knew and cared about, I was exposed to serious crime and the police were without opportunities or with very little opportunity to solve the matter and hold those responsible to account. I'd be really sorry. I also think that the debate on monitoring in general is a little biased. Because it is a bit strange that in the debate it is very often more controversial if the police take a picture of a license plate, which by the way is deleted again, than if the social media know what people eat for breakfast, know their exact position all the time, store their conversation, profile them, etc. etc. I'm so surprised. Perhaps we could achieve a slightly different balance, where the police need a little more than we have to do today, and private Internet giants need a little less. It wouldn't really hurt me at all. Finally, I should like to read out the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the Danish People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that anpg cameras are an important tool for Danish police. The Folketing urges the government to increase the number of anpg cameras considerably, just as the Folketing requires the government to work to increase the time the police must store pictures of anpg cameras in considerably. The Danish Parliament notes that technological developments mean that the police will work with data, camera monitoring, new technology and IT more in their efforts to keep Denmark safe than in the past. • V 53).
ParlaMint-DK_20180515180119	Thank you. We'll have a copy of the proposal for adoption up here. After all, the proposal is also included in the next reading. We shall then proceed with the other rapporteurs, and the first is Mr Beazley's report. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515180144	Thank you. Technology is a controversial topic today • monitoring or not monitoring. We do not want a society in which monitoring takes precedence, but at the same time we must also dare to take the technology that exists when it makes sense and it is necessary. The use of anpg cameras makes sense. We know that license plate scanners are extremely effective. They make police investigation work much faster and more efficient. Number plate scanners have helped solve major crimes such as murder, just as scanners have also helped stop foreign thieves and quickly track down wanted criminals. That's good, because technology is good when it works. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party have also called on the Minister of Justice to set aside money so that license plate scanners can be set up on the largest traffic routes in Denmark, as well as more police cars need to be equipped with cameras. As politicians, we have a responsibility to ensure that the police have the right tools, especially at a time when the police are getting more and more tasks. When we can give more tasks to the police on the political side, we must at the same time follow up with tools that work and that make tasks easier to solve. This does not mean that social democracy is in favour of massive monitoring of citizens. I don't think the license plate scanners contribute to that either. Of course, we also need to make sure that data from cameras is stored safely and, of course, also deleted after a certain period of time. But now that we can see how major murder cases are being solved, wanted criminals are being found more quickly and foreign thieves stopped, I can't find an argument for us not to. Social democracy therefore agrees with the questioners and we also want more anpg cameras for the police. With more scanners, more wanted vehicles will fall into the trap, and the police will be able to solve crime much more easily, and it will even free police officers to carry out other security-building tasks for the benefit of citizens. That is why we would once again call on the Minister of Justice to find the money and ensure that we get the number of license plate scanners that are necessary. I therefore have to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party and the three governing parties, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that anpg is an extremely useful tool for the police in the fight against crime, including the fight against gang crime and other serious crime. The Danish Parliament notes that the number of anpg cameras has been continuously expanded and that the National Police will set up additional anpg equipment in relation to today within the framework of the current agreement on police and prosecution finances in 2016-2019. Parliament calls on the government to ensure that the police continue to exploit the full potential of anpg. The Danish Parliament has noted in this respect that the Minister of Justice will consider the framework for the retention period when the information is to be used to combat gang crime and other serious crime. • V 54).
ParlaMint-DK_20180515180422	Thank you. This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further negotiations. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515180439	Thank you. In the left, we'd like to strengthen the police's investigative capabilities. This is true in all areas. The police are our friends. Sometimes you can take a different view, that is, that this is the way to limit the police's ability to investigate the most serious crimes. This is the case with the criticism of logging and, not least, the ruling that came from the European Court of Justice on logging, and it certainly makes it difficult for the police to investigate if it is to be implemented and this is the case with the rules of the law on the administration of justice, Article 754, which states that the police cannot go in and participate in, for example, the forums that deal in stolen goods or in drug trafficking and the like and act as buyers, unless it can provide more than six years of imprisonment. It's problematic that we have rules of this nature that prevent the police from solving quite obvious crimes. That is why, with this proposal, we are dealing with another means of investigation which, although we do not extend it in the legal sense, at least expands in a factual sense with some more cameras. There is no doubt at all, as the Minister of Justice has rightly pointed out, that the investigative tool contained in the automatic license plate recognition is a fantastic means of investigation. If you are in doubt or have been in doubt, then you should have gone to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and now, unfortunately, I am going to say the words I had sworn to say, namely Taskforce East, the police investigation centre down in Greve. The Legal Affairs Committee had a very high view of the value of the automatic license plate recognition and how an investigator could put a license plate number into the system, after which his own cell phone signaled every time the car passed by some of these cameras, and, otherwise, when it is a crime of a certain nature that one would like to investigate, this system is and remains an excellent tool, as was also emphasised by the Minister of Justice. That is why the Left supports its use and we also support the fact that, as described, the police will extend the current locations from 32 to 48 pieces. Around the retention deadline for missing hits, it is today according to the regulations that these images may only be stored 24 hours, unless it is in a targeted effort and in certain areas, for then it is shown 30 days it is called. We're very flexible about the possibility of extending these storage times. It has, what to say, no decisive influence on my freedom in this country, whether the police are hiding a picture of me driving over the Storebælt Bridge for 24 hours or for that matter for 24 days. I just don't care, and anyone else could be. So that is our position, and I should also like to say that we can, of course, fully endorse the proposal for adoption which the Socialist rapporteur read out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515180828	You're welcome. The next speaker is the rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515180836	Thank you. Automatic license plate recognition can be used to solve a great deal of crime, and we in the Enhedslisten are not critical of the automatic license plate recognition, as it can be used for much. It is very good that it can also be used in the fight against illegal cabotage, where it is necessary to save both hits and no hits for more than 24 hours. Having said that, we also think it is very good that the cameras have been placed in several places, so it is precisely possible to solve even more crime. Nor are we at all opposed to the fact that there should be more cameras, if that is what the police, and especially the heavy goods vehicle police, i.e. those who work on illegal cabotage, are calling for and assessing. Having said that, there is one thing that concerns us: how many no hits are being saved for more than 24 hours. The police have the opportunity to save them for up to 30 days, and they do a lot of that. At least in the Enhedslisten we have received several inquiries about this, although this is the rule in the case of no hits, i.e. registration of license plates where the owner of the car has not been charged or committed crime, that they should only keep them for 24 hours. So I would like to ask the Minister for Justice how many no hits will be saved for more than 24 hours. For what concerns us in the Enhedslist is how much registration of non-indicted and innocent, i.e. innocent citizens, is being held for too long. We think in Enhedslisten, it is very good that there are the delete deadlines, and see absolutely no need for them to be longer. I think, if we are to conclude on this, that we think it is right that automatic license plate recognition can be used to solve a great deal of crime, but we do not see any reason to change the erasing deadlines and extend the time for keeping the data, and that is why we do not support the proposal for adoption which the Socialist rapporteur read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515181114	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515181122	Thank you very much. I listened with interest to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Preben Bang Henriksens, talk. I can already tell you that this speech will also show that there are also differing views between the governing parties on this subject. For me and the Liberal Alliance, this is a very fundamental discussion. I do not think anyone is in any doubt that we in LA are critical when it comes to increased monitoring of citizens. We are, both when it comes to video surveillance, logging, data collection and therefore also license plate recognition. Most recently, we have had a good and important debate in connection with the implementation of the Personal Data Regulation, and I believe that everyone, whatever their position in this area, agrees that there are also some fundamental dilemmas at stake when it comes to this area. For us, it is ultimately about protecting citizens from unnecessary surveillance. I agree that there are some who think that this is an ideological principle-riding, and one can also rightly argue that ANPG is a really useful tool for the police. On the other hand, we also have the task of ensuring a reasonable balance between the consideration of the capacity of the authorities, on the one hand, and the legal certainty of citizens and the right to privacy, on the other, and this is a difficult balancing exercise. We must be absolutely sure that private information about citizens is not abused and does not end up in the wrong hands. We saw last year that the police had little difficulty in getting deleted the photos they had collected through the ANPG system. After all, there is a reason why we are making clear rules as to how long the authorities must keep such data. I fully understand that there is a desire to support the police's ability to solve crimes. In the end, it is a question of what kind of society we want. From our side, we certainly do not want a society in which citizens cannot travel in public without the feeling of being looked over the shoulder of an all-seeing, all-knowing state. If we are to continue developing the ANPG system, we must at least be sure that the data collected are stored and processed properly and that they are deleted when they are no longer needed. I believe that we should generally wear critical glasses when the authorities are asking for more opportunities to monitor citizens, so I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising a debate which is heartblood also for the Liberal Alliance, albeit, I think, with reverse sign when it comes to our position on the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515181417	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515181429	Thank you. From here, too, thanks are due to the Danish People's Party, because it is a really exciting debate about how the police use these APNGs, i.e. cameras that can read license plates. There is no doubt that when you have to look at that legislation, there are two considerations to take into account. One is the concern for privacy, i.e. how much we, as citizens, have to put up with 24-hour surveillance. And the second consideration is of course the need for the authorities to be able to investigate crime. I don't think any of us are in favour of any of the extremes here. One extreme is to say that there should be no monitoring anywhere at all, although we know that this helps the police in their concrete work. On the other hand, I do not think that anyone would be in favour of all of us being equipped if you thought that thought to the end with a mobile camera on your head so that you could follow our every move anywhere. That is to say, it is a balancing act. What is absolutely crucial for us in this case of cameras that monitor license plates is, of course, that we should have a guarantee that the data collected will be stored completely securely so that they do not come to the attention of people who are not allowed to see them. The second is, of course, that we need a hundred percent guarantee that they will be deleted when they are not needed anymore. There we are not in favour of extending the deadline for police deletion. We think that as little time as possible is appropriate in relation to what they should be used for. After all, we have had a number of cases lately with regard to the Data Protection Act, where we collect and share data. We have also had consultations on PET and their storage of data and less good deletion. This is important, I believe and believe the alternative, for the citizens' sense of trust in the system. One must be sure that when the authorities collect data, there is full transparency about what is being collected, what it is being used for and how long the authorities can keep it. And when they don't need it anymore, it has to be deleted. I think we really must safeguard that, because otherwise I am concerned that the public's confidence in the authorities is weakening, and none of us want that either. There has just been an article here recently, I think it was in everything that citizens' confidence in this data collection had actually decreased. I think that is problematic, and I think we should take this very, very seriously. These are my comments on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515181811	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515181821	Thank you. We are certainly not opposed to these cameras either. As far as I remember, we ourselves helped to introduce that they were set up at the border when we were in government, and in many ways we think that targeted use of them might be a better way of using resources than putting cops or soldiers to stand at the border. So we are certainly not against these cameras and we very much welcome a debate on how to use them. Having said that, however, I would like to say that we are extremely concerned about the use and registration of information by the State. Now the alternative rapporteur mentioned this before, but we have had a great many cases over the past year or even six months, I think, which justify a concern among the citizens about how information is being used. We have had the case of PET, which is no longer obliged to delete data that is no longer relevant. It may be that my name or one of your names is part of an investigation that is no longer relevant, even if you may never have committed anything criminal. In the old days, PET was obliged to remove that information when it was no longer relevant, and it is, of course, a question of the right as a citizen not to be registered in that way. PET no longer has that obligation. That is why the reality is that many of us can be registered even if we have not committed anything illegal and even if that case has long since been closed. Then we have also had the whole debate about logging, that is, that the state keeps information about people's online activities for far too long. It is also a matter we have had, and one might think in the same way: can we end up in a situation where the state has this information for a little too long, and can we then end up in a situation where we suddenly start using that information? This is, of course, one of the points we have made in connection with the processing of the Data Protection Act, where data collected for one purpose can suddenly be used for other purposes and even without going to the Assembly and having a majority vote in favour of it. In this way, I think that there is reason to be really sceptical about the use of this type of surveillance technology, but the way it is used and the control of its application. We are obsessed with this debate because we are thinking that it could be a really effective instrument that might also relieve the police and could create more effective crime prevention and investigation, but we are at least as concerned that this is not a slippery path towards a police state. I just have to say, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, that the police are also our friends, but the police are working for us. If we give them the wrong legal basis, it's who they follow. The word police state sounds very, very negative, and so is the word police state. The definition is simply that the police have access to go fishing in our information. The police do not do so because of bad morals and so on, if we want them to do so and if that is the mandate they get from in here. We can say: Well, yes, now that you have the information about who has been running across the border, or who has been walking around in Denmark they have it on the license plate... couldn't you also use it for this and that? It could be the police, and it could also be the social authorities. After all, we politicians are the ones who give the authorities the opportunity to use these instruments in different ways, and so they are not the ones we have been angry with or sceptical about. It is, in fact, the majority in here that we do not think is at all careful enough in relation to the monitoring of Danish citizens and the use of that monitoring. That is why the word police state may in fact be wrong, because it is not the police who have the power. It is the politicians who have given the police the task of using power on this, we think, very critical way. Fortunately, we are not yet out there, but unfortunately we just see more signs that this is the way we are going to go, where the state collects information about people in every possible way whether it is about their movements on the web, or whether it is about people's movements on the Danish roads, and then it uses information not only for targeted investigation of specific cases, but also to profile people or see patterns etc. etc. This is just one way to treat citizens and to use data, which we are very opposed to. Unfortunately, we have to say that if this technology, which is otherwise very good to say, is not controlled and contained very precisely, then there is a risk that it may be a slippery path towards the very society that we fear.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515182341	Thank you. There is one for a brief remark. Mrs. Karina Due, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515182344	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur thinks that we should be careful not to have a surveillance society, but can the rapporteur explain to me the difference between the social media, where we are so monitored all the time, and that there is a little bit of surveillance that can be used by the police if that is needed but only if it is needed? After all, it is not a question of constant monitoring, but only of a system that you will be able to enter and withdraw information from if you need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515182421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515182423	Well, the difference is, first of all, that you choose whether you are on social media. You don't choose whether you are a member of Denmark as a Danish citizen or you could do that, and then you have to hope that some others will accept you, but you shouldn't be forced to make that choice. That's one thing. The other thing is that you can say that social media have some kind of power, but it cannot be compared to the power that the state has over you, where you have the possibility of punishing people, but you also have the possibility of targeting all kinds of services to people, perhaps on the basis of data collected in different ways. That is why I think there is quite a difference, but having said that, we are also very sceptical about what has been seen in relation to Facebook, etc., etc., and we think that both consumers and users of social media need to become more critical and make more demands. And there is also a need for states and perhaps larger organisations, such as the European Union or anything else, to start making demands and regulating social media, because they have power over us and over society, and although it is another type of power, it is not coercive power, as the state has, it is a power that we also have to control democratically.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515182539	The questioner on the second brief remark. It does not want the questioner, so thank the rapporteur. The last rapporteur, and I see him in the Chamber, is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515182554	Let me start by stressing that we in the Conservatives are great supporters of the police and have great confidence in the police. When it comes to crimes and criminals, we are not so liberal, as it is more control than trust that applies. Law and order are important in this respect. We are also in favour of the police system ANPG, which means automatic license plate recognition. It is such an intelligent system with license plate scanners that can alert the police if a vehicle registered in the police system passes a camera. The primary purpose of the ANPG system is to combat cross-border and serious crime, for example: trafficking in human beings, but will also have to contribute to the removal of more vehicles from roads which pose a risk to road safety. At the same time, the system is used in investigations in everything from terrorism, burglar crime, drug smuggling, etc. ANPG is financed by special funds set aside in the multi-annual police agreement. We agree with the proposers that the number of ANPG stations should be increased, and the Minister of Justice has also shown a willingness to do so. The Minister of Justice has had a discussion with several parties on extending this possibility within the framework of the current multi-annual agreement. Another element is how long to preserve the information found via ANPG. In general, information is stored either for 24 hours or for 30 days, but in relation to gang crime there may be a need to store the information for a longer period of time, and we must also show willingness to do so. That is also why the Minister for Justice will be discussing this with the parties in the autumn, the parties involved in the multi-year agreement, and we look forward to it. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515182830	You're welcome. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515182838	Thank you. At any rate, after today's debate on this subject, we can state that ANPG is very good. At least that's indiscreet. Then today's debate has shown that we need to find a balance, and that is something we need to discuss in greater detail. That is why I have asked the National Police to look into whether the current rules for storing information collected using ANPG should be adapted. This balance between, on the one hand, saving for the purposes of police investigations and their effectiveness and, on the other hand, the concern for citizens' data security seems to me to be a relevant discussion, and we are looking at that, and it may be that some other balances need to be found. It may be that there are also areas where you have to look at whether it should be for a long time and whether there are other places where we should have them deleted. There have been many comments here from the platform on the surveillance society, mass monitoring and data, etc., and it is beyond my comprehension that one can talk about something similar to police state and what else it is. I was looking around the hall, thinking where's an oxygen system, 'cause I can't do it anymore. I don't understand it at all. It's beyond my comprehension. Well, it must be that the police use these license plate scanners... they just drive, click, click, click, click, and then they can go back and see that there's something here, and they use it, and then it may be that they solve the case. I really, really have to work hard and practice finding it offensive in this, I have to say. But I also recognise that we cannot just save everything for all time, and I understand that, which is why I think it is the balance, and that is why I am looking forward to us now getting a little smarter on this, that the National Police are looking at it a little more closely, and that this gives us the opportunity to have a good debate in the autumn about whether we have the right balance. At any rate, I think it is good and right and important that the Danish People's Party has raised this discussion, and I am delighted that we have some more ANPG cameras, and then we have to look at that, and I am completely open to that, because of course we have to do so, how long the different things have to be saved. However, I am a little sorry that when we talk about data and data security in relation to the public and the state, it is quite quickly made to be a large surveillance society, a large society full of mistrust. It is not the public sector, it is not the Denmark I know. I do not really recognize that this is the way things are handled. However, I think it was a good discussion and look forward to discussing it further, also during the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515183146	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 17 May 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180515183207	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 16 May 2018, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
