ParlaMint-DK_20181123100009	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123100016	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123100037	Thank you very much, President. Oops, it was about to go wrong here on the way up our newly built stairs. President. - The debate is closed. Yes, there might have been a need for that, but thank you, President. We have to deal with a bill here which deals with tobacco. I would say that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill, but of course we have some comments on it. The draft law aims to establish measures against the illegal trade in tobacco products. Hopefully, we all know very well that tobacco is the worst, the most harmful single factor against Danes' health and the Danes' public health. So it is very good that we have taken some initiatives here. The legislative proposal here must also ensure that it is the illegal part of the tobacco trade that is contained, and thus, of course, we also have some advantages and a record in relation to the income we have as a country. This is due to the European Commission, which adopted an implementing regulation back in December 2017, and therefore a traceability system must now be introduced in Denmark in relation to tobacco products. This means that unique identification marks and safety marks must be issued on all tobacco which is to be traded in Denmark in the future. In other words, we will be able to follow a tobacco product from the point of view of the producer's entry into the country and until it comes to the retail trade where it is sold. It will be the Security Authority that will be responsible for identifying an ID issuer who can issue the unique identification marks, and then it will be the tax administration that will deal with the part that is below their territory. In addition to what is, like the European Union, an additional part of the government's bill has been put forward to allow traders to be denied the right to market tobacco for a period of time if they repeatedly, in the retail trade and in serious cases, violate the wording of the law and the framework for not selling tobacco products to young people under 18 years of age. What is possible to combine here is exactly what the European Union has decided on in relation to an ID identification; it will be possible to suspend, if you may say so, for a period of time so that you do not have it as a retailer and thus have no opportunity to sell tobacco. We in the Social Democratic Party are very interested in that part. We were the first party to propose a licensing system, as we called it, that retailers should be able to be deprived of the opportunity to sell tobacco if they do not comply with what the law says in relation to the 18-year limit and to whom tobacco may be sold. That is why we are also going to make it clear to the third reading what is in this possibility. It can be seen from the consultation answers that a great many parties, such as the fight against cancer, but also other organisations, want a real licensing system instead of what is the basis of this bill, namely that we should be able to deprive retail trade of the opportunity to sell tobacco through what is the identification system and designation here. We in the Social Democratic Party are very concerned about the part that has to do with the control of the legal system. Now it's the Security Authority that has to do this task; that's what the government has decided, that's where the authority has to lie. I shall not fail to say that we in the Socialist Group believe that it is an unambitious and not enough good arrangement to transfer it to the Security Authority, especially with the few resources that are being allocated to real control. We will pay close attention to this, which is why I would already like to address the Minister that we want this to be evaluated. Our proposal will be to carry out an evaluation after two or three years, but that the Minister and the Department will also ensure that we, as Parliament, are informed of how this area is developing. We can also see, as the draft law has been put forward, that it is not expected that there will be a great deal to be checked out there, and I think that is a bit of a disregard for the scale and seriousness of the problem. That is why this is an area we will be watching very closely. However, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal with these comments and we want the Minister to have an evaluation system in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123100543	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was exactly speaking time. It would be nice if we could keep it this day too. Then it's Mrs. Liselot Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123100556	It shouldn't be necessary to make a bill like this, but in this fight against tobacco we can also see that there are a great many inappropriate ways of managing it out there. We can see that while getting cigarettes is becoming more and more difficult and more expensive and expensive, some people do not think expensive enough, there will also be more counterfeit cigarettes, illegal cigarettes. We can see that some of the counterfeit cigarettes that have been examined are many more dangerous substances than what is in the cigarettes that are dangerous enough. That is why we are now doing this by setting up a labelling system so that we can follow the cigarettes on the road they take from the producer to the final stage. We have heard a lot of supermarket chains and so on over the past few months, who want to do a lot, and they have had the opportunity to do so, so that you did not need to make a legislative proposal on how to ensure that cigarettes are not sold to children under the age of 18 and that, of course, you do not buy illegal cigarettes. So, of course, we are positive about the proposal, because we are now making this registration system so that we can follow the cigarettes. We also agree that, for those places where we continue to violate the law in relation to selling cigarettes or other tobacco products to young people under the age of 18, there must be sanctions, and by repeated sanctions it is becoming more and more sanctions, such as not selling tobacco for several months. One of the things we need to see in the proposal is: what about those who sell illegal cigarettes? It is at least as bad as selling to those under the age of 18 to sell cigarettes, from which, firstly, neither tax nor VAT is paid, and, secondly, something which is full of dangerous substances. So some of what we want to ask in committee is: how many sales outlets have been caught selling illegal tobacco products, and what is the penalty? We are well aware that this is, of course, the second committee, but now we have a legislative proposal which must go after some of those who violate the law in force in relation to our health, and although it is something else, it has just as much, if not more, to do with health, so we also believe that it should be considered. We also fully support the fact that it is the Security Authority that is responsible for identifying ID issuers who can issue these identity marks and that the tax administration is responsible for generating and issuing security stamps. I believe that the text of the proposal contains temple marks. Then I think it was very funny, but I think an s was forgotten. Those were stamp marks. So we support the proposal, but of course we have some questions in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123100925	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123100929	Thank you. I just wanted to hear something from the rapporteur. I stumbled a little at the rapporteur's comment on supermarkets, because the rapporteur said that they could just do so themselves so that we do not have to have this bill. That is how I heard the rapporteur say it. After all, there are a number of supermarkets that have actually signed up and have a position to hide cigarettes under the counter and so on, and there are many other places that sell cigarettes. Then the rapporteur could not go further: what does the rapporteur mean by the supermarkets being able to do it themselves, and then we did not need this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101008	I have asked some of those who have written to us that they are now introducing a black cloth over it, and then they expect people to stop buying cigarettes, and then they stop smoking. So I have asked: will you not start introducing an 18-year limit? They follow the law, they say. However, there is no legislation on this, which should not be necessary either, as employees are told that they cannot sell to anyone under 18 years of age and can therefore require identification. It's actually something all stores, kiosks, supermarket chains could just introduce themselves, and I've asked them that, and nobody said they would. They could say: In our business must
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101059	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101100	To be fair to the supermarkets, I would say that what my question was about before was that there are also kiosks and all sorts of other places selling cigarettes, and it is my impression that there are actually supermarkets that are making a lot of effort. I have at least experienced that Netto has started to do so, and I have heard them do so that they ask about age when buying cigarettes. I think we must also recognise that there are some supermarkets and some chains that are actually trying to take the lead in this area, and they cannot provide traceability themselves, that is to say, the one issue that the rapporteur himself raised. It was just to say that there are a lot of other sales outlets, which is why it is important that we have such a law as this, so it becomes general for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101146	Unfortunately, this is the case with all the legislation: if only all the people were honest, we would not need a Parliament at all. We did not have to legislate if we were to comply with what was in force. I am also saying that it is very good that some people are taking the lead, and you can ask them whether they want to impose some other sanctions or they want to demand identification. And I'm glad if there's a Net that does. But we know only from studies that whatever business it has been, I think it was eight out of ten young people who could buy cigarettes without showing ID. So there's a problem out there, and you should take that up yourself as a business.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101223	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's the Left, Mrs. Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101234	Today, we are dealing first with a legislative proposal designed to ensure better traceability of tobacco products. This is the result of a adopted EU implementing regulation, as it is so well known and tightened sanctions for the sale of tobacco to young people under 18 years of age. Both elements are warmly supported in the Left, and let me start from behind. It is quite unacceptable that we should read again and again in the press that some retail shops are blowing high and nicely on current Danish legislation and selling tobacco to young people under the age of 18. It doesn't belong anywhere. It's as simple as that. Although several retail shops have already taken good initiatives, including: A partnership agreement has been concluded with the government on strengthened enforcement, and this deserves praise for the fact that there is a need for us to get the shovel under the stumbled vessels to a greater extent, so to speak, as over and over again violates current Danish legislation. The draft law provides for the possibility that tobacco dealers who repeatedly violate or in the event of serious infringements may be deprived of the right to sell tobacco for a period of time, and that makes sense. It also makes great sense that such a sanction is supported by the new track and trace system, which is part of the legal complex here. For with a ban, the Security Authority can simply disable the identity code from the traceability system issued to the dealer. Indeed, it is the case that all dealers are provided with a unique identification code. In future, tobacco must bear both unique identification marks and safety marks, and a breach of those rules may give rise to fines. In the Left, we have an ambition that by 2030 we will have the first smoke-free generation in Denmark, and we have already taken a series of initiatives here in the Danish Parliament that point in the right direction: the warning pictures on cigarette packages have become larger, the packages for the Rygestopline have been numbered, the parties behind the Rygestopline have launched a new and modern campaign on the social media targeted young people, especially those in vocational schools, who have the greatest challenges, and right now the Danish Parliament is dealing with a bill to raise the fines for the sale of tobacco to minors significantly. So, yes, there has been speed over the field since 2015, when the Left moved into government offices and set itself a goal for the first smoke-free generation in 2030. As I said earlier, the Left can support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101518	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101521	What a tremendous speed over the field that was in that speech. But there wasn't quite enough speed over the field to our liking. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. There is one of several consultation responses that asks why there is no possibility of permanently depriving the court of the right if you repeatedly violate the law in relation to selling to children. Couldn't the Left be in on it? I just want to hear about that from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101555	There are many ways we can go if we are to achieve the ambition that we should have the first smoke-free generation by 2030. I think it is a wise move here from the government, which says that for a period of time the court can be removed initially. Well, let's see what effect it's gonna have out there. I have a clear expectation that it will be preventive in relation to the desire of the retail trade to break Danish legislation, if you will say so, in relation to selling cigarettes to young people under the age of 18.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101629	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101630	We are also in favour of this approach and believe that it will have an effect, but as the rapporteur also says, there is probably a need for speed over the field, because unfortunately it is going the wrong way in relation to children and young people and smoking. So I hope that this is only one small bill out of several, and that the Left will help to move forward and, for example, to move forward. I should like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. There is a need for drastic measures. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101710	I fully agree that we must do what we can to achieve the ambition of the first smoke-free generation by 2030. There are many ways to go. Now I have mentioned a few of them: larger warning images on the packages, the Stopline, the partnership that the government has concluded, the bill that we are dealing with, on fines, and now this with the possibility of being deprived of the right to sell tobacco. So there is a whole series of initiatives we have taken in the past. Then the rapporteur asks whether one could not also go in the direction of making tobacco more expensive. Yes, it could be done, and we in the Left are completely open to a discussion of what cigarettes could cost in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101755	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123101803	Thank you. Yes, there are two elements to this bill, as my colleagues have already explained: a traceability system for the purpose of combating illegal tobacco products, and as no. Secondly, the possibility of selling tobacco can be lost as a new feature if we repeatedly and harshly break the ban that is that we should not sell to minors. Unfortunately, it is well known that this is happening on a relatively large scale today. It is relatively easy to buy tobacco, even though you are under 18 years old despite the law. We think it is a good proposal to introduce this possibility of losing the opportunity to sell tobacco. We need to get more light on what it means to be rough and repeated before this sanction comes into force. I would also like to say, following on from what the Socialist rapporteur said, that if such a stricter sanction is to have an effect, yes, I am convinced that it is also necessary to be taken out of control. And that is a fundamental problem today. There are fines, and now there is also the possibility of losing the opportunity to sell tobacco, but if no one comes out and checks whether people are complying with the law, then the effect of such sanctions will be quite limited. That is why we think it is very important that we continue to have a discussion on how to ensure that there is in fact a control over the rule that children and young people under the age of 18 should not be sold. I would like to end by saying, and it is a little in line with what we have just heard from the rapporteur from the Left in the debate with Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative, that the most important thing for me is that we have an overall strategy on how to start this ambitious goal of having a smoke-free generation by 2030. Speed over the field will not be what I would describe as the speed of the government. I think it's snail speed. The most effective measures mentioned by all those who work in the field of tobacco prevention, prices, neutral tobacco packages, the legislation that tobacco should be hidden under the counter, the fact that we also include vocational training with a smoking ban which applies to all the other youth education programmes, all those things we need to see action on. It is, of course, fine when some small steps are taken, but let us now talk about how to get a national action plan that will turn this very, very unhappy development around, that we can see that more young people are starting to smoke. We are not at all satisfied with what we have achieved so far, so it must be a call from this point of view for us to tackle such a comprehensive national action plan in order to prevent tobacco smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123102117	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123102126	Thank you. The implementing regulation of the Commission of 15 December 2017, in which this bill is based, is basically a regulation that we in the Liberal Alliance see very sensibly. The regulation specifically concerns technical standards, the establishment and operation of a traceability system for tobacco products, a track and trace system in which tobacco products can be monitored and tracked throughout the EU, because the regulation's legal acts apply directly and directly in all EU Member States. Basically, the aim is to put an end to the illegal trade in tobacco products, which is quite difficult to disagree with. The bill will assign powers to the Security and Tax Administration respectively, and it supports the Liberal Alliance. We can also support the second objective of the legislative proposal, namely to impose sanctions on dealers who violate the ban on selling tobacco to people under the age of 18. Applicable law must be respected and, of course, there must be sanctions against breaking the law. To deny some the right to market tobacco for a period of time, the Liberal Alliance also seems appropriate. We therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123102249	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123102256	Thank you. In the alternative, we welcome the fact that with this draft law we are stepping up the monitoring and sanctions for the sale of tobacco to minors. The registration of dealers will make it possible to get a precise knowledge of the number of tobacco outlets and to improve the possibility of more effective controls. In the alternative, we also support the European Union's vision of achieving greater control of tobacco products, but we want to go further so that dealers who break the law on the sale of tobacco products to minors can be permanently deprived of the right to market tobacco products in serious offences. Despite several campaigns and a great and positive ambition for a smoke-free generation 2030, it is unfortunately going the wrong way in relation to children and young people who smoke. That is why I do not want to hide the fact that, in the alternative, we believe that much more needs to be done than is proposed today in order to get fewer children and young people to smoke. I have previously stood here in Parliament twice, for two consecutive parliamentary periods, and proposed a price increase for cigarettes. Unfortunately, there has not yet been a majority in favour of this, but I am optimistic, and I am happy to table it again during this period, because I believe that it can succeed. I have seen that there has just been a citizens' proposal from Coop that cigarettes should be completely hidden. I hope that a lot of people will go in and sign it. I think it is very good with citizens' proposals, because then we can have it in the Chamber as a proposal too. We've seen that it works. Net has hidden cigarettes, and in areas where youth education is available, sales have fallen significantly, so this has had an effect. Smoking is not a free choice. Cigarettes are being pushed by an industry that is fully aware that they must have made children and young people addicted to smoking, because then the loyal customers become the rest of their lives. In 2016, the tobacco industry spent 61.5 billion. kr. in the United States alone to push the cigarettes out to people 61.5 billion. kr.! That's what we're up against. Most smokers start smoking during their teens, which is why it is particularly important to do everything we can to prevent children and young people from smoking. In the alternative, we are positive about this bill, which is a step in the right direction, but we believe that we can go much further in order for fewer children and young people to smoke. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123102558	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has any comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123102610	Thank you for that, President. In the Radical Left, we would like to see more equality in health. As a health rapporteur, I think that one of the most important things to work for is that people can have a good life, what it is for them, a healthy life. And therefore it makes me sad to see, when I look at Denmark, that there is still a very, very great inequality, compared to how long people live and how good and healthy we feel. There's something important about cigarettes. That is why we in the Radical Left are very concerned that we will have the first smoke-free generation, many of us are talking about that, but I also believe that it is not enough to talk about it. Because if a target is to have a value, we must also do what we have to do, and that is why we are so concerned that we are putting up the prices of cigarettes, that the packages become neutral and come under the counter so that we cannot see them. However, we are also concerned about what the other rapporteurs also mentioned, which means that we will now be able to trace the cigarettes. I just want to say that this is a very good example of some of the things that come from the European Union not only being good but also being important, and this is an example of a problem that we cannot solve alone in Denmark, because it only works when we work with the countries around us. Sometimes you'd think you couldn't even see that in here at Christiansborg. So just one small thing: here the European Union has actually done very well. It is important that people do not cheat and sell cigarettes to children and young people, and that is why the proposal that we not only strengthen traceability, but also ensure that we take tougher action against those who cheat, is an important proposal. I have noticed two points in the hearings which I would like to highlight. One thing is the point of the Danish Public Health Society and the SSP Council that one should be able to completely deny people who cheat the right to sell cigarettes at all. The second point is the point of the Danish Cancer Society and the Heart Association, which says that if there are no people on the National Security Agency to send out unannounced checks, it is a question of how many we actually get taken. I think that both points are important to continue working on. And that is why I just want to say that we in the Radical Left support this bill, but that we also very much want to help go further.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123102908	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123102911	Thank you. I am just a little curious, because I heard the rapporteur say that neutral cigarette packages would like to be seen. Now it's no more than approx. Three years ago, the rapporteur's party had the power of government with other parties in the red block, which we must also understand wants neutral cigarette packages, and then I just got a little curious about why it was not introduced three years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123102936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123102937	Actually, I don't know, but I'm fighting for us to make it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123102944	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andresen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123102953	Thank you. Let me start by making it clear that SF wants the future to be smoke-free. Today, 22 percent smoke. of the Danes, and the proportion of smokers has not decreased since 2011. The new smokers who have joined since 2011 are primarily children and adolescents under the age of 18, and 4 out of 5 smokers begin before they become 18 years of age and hence of age. We need to do something about smoking if we are to break that curve and ensure a smoke-free generation by 2030 and a smoke-free future. Smoking is responsible for a quarter of all deaths in Denmark, and smokers are at a particular risk of developing diseases such as cancer and cardiovascular diseases and osteoporosis, and therefore it is also extremely important for us that action is now taken. The SF therefore also supports the proposal to tighten up sanctions on the sale of tobacco to people under 18 years of age. SF supports the proposal that shops selling tobacco to young people under the age of 18 should be able to be deprived of the right to sell tobacco for a period of time in the event of repeated infringements. We also support the idea that in Denmark it will be the Danish Security Authority which will be given the additional task of controlling the ban on the sale of tobacco and alcohol to people under 18 years of age. It is important for us to combat the illegal trade in tobacco products, both due to public health and the lost tax revenue. That is why it makes sense to issue a safety stamp so that tobacco producers can be more easily traced and, at the same time, the label must be a prerequisite for the lawful purchase and marketing of tobacco. SF will reduce the number of smokers in Denmark and will therefore work for fewer people to start smoking in the future. The future must be smoke-free and therefore the SF will also vote in favour of the proposal, although we would also like to emphasise that this is only a small step on the road. This is not very ambitious, but a little is also right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123103202	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123103209	Thank you. Smoking is harmful, no matter which age groups we are talking about, and in Denmark we have done a great deal in recent years to get smokers to stop smoking and make young people stop smoking. In many companies smoking during working hours is completely prohibited, and in many places smoking on the company's cadastre is prohibited. This applies to both private companies and municipal and state jobs. Yes, in many municipalities it is also forbidden to smoke on the sports facilities' matricles, school matrimons, day - care machines and much more. So we have come a great deal far, but we can go even further with bans, campaigns, information, etc. We simply have to do everything we can to get people to stop smoking and, in particular, we have to do everything in our power to prevent young people from turning on their first cigarette. We are some in this Chamber who remember illegal trade in the past, smugglers who sailed in speedboats across the Sound or down from Poland and were hunted and there was a lot of illegal trade in cigarettes at that time. The draft law now put forward by the Minister for Health is another step in the right direction and is based on the adoption by the Commission of 15 December 2017 of technical standards for maintaining the operation of a traceability system for tobacco products, as well as the implementation of technical standards for safety features on tobacco products, the so-called track and trace system. With the bill, the Security Authority will be responsible for identifying an ID issuer who can issue unique identity marks and the tax administration will be responsible for issuing the security stamps. At the same time, the draft law provides for penalties to be laid down for infringements of the provisions of the implementing regulation and for the right to sell tobacco to be waived for a period of time if the ban on the sale of tobacco to young people under the age of 18 is violated in serious or repeated cases. On the conservative side, we are convinced that these measures can help young people under the age of 18 in particular not to light their first cigarette. But we also think we should go further. After all, we have indicated ourselves that we would very much like to see a higher price for cigarettes, that is to say, higher prices. It can be behavioural regulating especially for young people so that they do not start smoking. But we see good moves in this bill, and we fully support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123103442	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123103455	Thank you for your comments and the basically positive reception of the bill. In the government, we want to support the fact that tobacco products are not sold illegally in the EU. At the same time, it is important for the government that the track and trace system that we are now introducing, which will take effect throughout the European Union, is also implemented and enforced in an appropriate way in Denmark. That is why we are also proposing that the Security Authority and the tax administration should check that tobacco products can be properly traced in the system, and in this way we benefit from the fact that the Security Authority is already carrying out control tasks at retail level and that the tax administration is already carrying out inspections at companies, citizens, at border crossings and at airports. With the bill, the government also wants to take advantage of the track and trace system to tighten up enforcement of the age limit for tobacco sales. It is an enforcement which I think most of us have seen a large number of both articles and examples of simply not being good enough and where there has not been sufficient respect for the legislation we have today, where we have clear, fixed age limits for not accepting the sale of tobacco to children and young people. The bill therefore lays down a three strikes and you are out-of-scheme. I do not know what such a thing is called in good Danish, but that means that dealers who sell tobacco over and over again to minors may be denied the right to sell tobacco for a period of time. So with the scheme we are sending a strong signal that if the dealers repeatedly sell tobacco to minors, the consequences, including economic consequences, are that they lose the right to sell tobacco for a period of time, and that is because, of course, it must not be free for dealers to violate the ban on selling tobacco to minors. I can hear that some questions have also been raised in this Chamber today, also in relation to the consequences of which shops sell illegal cigarettes, and I am also sure that we will be able to clarify them by means of the Minister for Taxation and the Minister for Industry during the committee procedure, since this is a legislative proposal which does not only cover the part relating to health, but also has a bearing on the business sector and into tax legislation. I look forward to the further discussion of the draft law and, of course, make myself available for any questions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123103711	Thank you. No one has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123103727	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123103740	Thank you very much, President. And I came up the stairs nicely this time. This bill is about interpretation. It's about language skills. It's about our health care. It is about exactly how language skills are an unlikely essential element in ensuring a high level of patient safety in order to ensure security and real understanding between patients and healthcare professionals. The Government has taken a decision in connection with the 2018 Finance Act that a certification scheme for foreign language interpretation in the health field will be established. We support this in the Social Democratic Party. We have had several initiatives, and we have had consultations and other discussions on how we could do things better in order to improve patient safety precisely, given that there are no linguistic complications and misunderstandings. A certification scheme for foreign language interpretation in the healthcare sector is now to be established. There must be some acceptance principles in relation to the institutions responsible for certification. There has to be an education. Examinations must be carried out in relation to the interpreters and proof of their qualifications must be issued. It is proposed that it should be a can-scheme for the five regions, in relation to whether or not they make use of certified interpreters. You can say "and it is also clear from part of the consultation answers that it is not a shell scheme." In the Social Democratic Party we are very aware that if it were to be a shell scheme, you would run into some capacity problems and challenges, and you would probably already now also be running into some cost-related challenges. But we in the Social Democratic Party are very, very aware of the quality and patient safety, and that is why we must also follow this very closely. That is why I would also like to ask the Minister for Health to inform the Health Committee regularly about which companies are seeking certification and how they are developing interpreters in the future. Social democracy supports the bill as it has been put forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123104014	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123104030	A study showed in 2017 that six out of ten health interpreters could not interpret properly. It cost 150 million. kr. to use interpreters in health care. At the same time, we heard stories about an interpreter who was hired and who could three words in a given language. It made us from the Danish People's Party say: this cannot go on. So one of the things we brought to our financial law negotiations with the government last year was that something had to happen in the customs area. One thing was that we had a right to how long one must have been in Denmark to be able to have interpretation, another was that we should then also ensure a proper interpretation for those who are being interpreted. This proposal deals precisely with this certification scheme, so that we know, when you take a certified interpreter, that it is also someone who can do the things that are in the health care sector, in that it can be other things than what you need to have interpreted in the social services or elsewhere. There is a need for specific knowledge in the field of health care. We have, of course, also read the hearing answers that have come in relation to the bill. These guidelines have been pointed out to achieve uniformity because there are different institutions and to ensure that they are approved at the same level. And these are some of the things we want to ask the Minister, of course, how we can ensure this. One thing is also that, as previous rapporteurs also mentioned, this is done voluntarily, and we believe that this will be a start until we get the interpreters we need to be trained. So once everyone has been certified and approved, you can use it as a shell provision, but of course it is also about looking at regions and others in the health care system over your shoulder to make sure that they also use what is available. Having said that, we have also raised the problem of using too little technology. It was something we decided almost 10 years ago, which has not actually been taken into account. A great deal of resources are spent on driving back and forth as well as on interpreters living far away, because it is sometimes in some languages that not many can. I myself have been visiting a company in Silkeborg, a start-up company that has actually made an innovative solution, where you can get in touch very quickly with someone who can interpret your language and who takes a minute's price and who hasn't been driven to it. So I believe that you will save a lot of money and make the best of it by making sure they get this certification. So, of course, we support the proposal and hope that we can constantly evaluate it in terms of how it is progressing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123104359	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123104412	In July 2017, Søren Rasmussen applied for a position as Swahilitolk in an interpreting agency. He got the job in August of that year. The only problem was he couldn't speak Swahili. Afterwards, he was also employed in two other agencies, and Søren still could not speak Swahili. Søren's story was an eye-opener, for it exemplifies the problems of interpreting health. Quality in this area is simply not high enough, and it is incredibly difficult for the regions to see whether they hire a qualified interpreter or not. Those challenges are still topical, unfortunately. That is why we are today debating a legislative proposal for a voluntary certification scheme for foreign language interpretation in the field of health. And let it be said straight away: it is a challenge if you do not understand each other, both for the doctor and the patient and the cooperation that there is to be about a given treatment. It's about patient safety. It's about patient safety. Because that's absolutely crucial when a patient, for example. gets an answer to a test: Are you HIV positive or are you not HIV positive? To give just one example from the real world. The certification scheme is financed by fees, and we in the Left think this is a very good solution to a challenging issue, just as it will be the Minister of Health who decides which institutes are supposed to be able to train interpreters to a satisfactory level of interpretation, both in relation to Danish and other necessary languages, which, as a result, must be approved by the institutes. The aim is to improve patient safety and, at the same time, to improve the conditions for the regions to choose an interpreter with the right qualifications for the right treatment situation. The Left can support the bill as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123104610	Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123104622	Thank you for the floor. The aim of the draft law here is to correct the fact that the interpretation available in the health care system is of a highly varied quality, to say the least. Two of my colleagues have already mentioned the Swahili Søren, who was on the cover of Information a year ago. Mrs Liselott Blixt mentioned that he had three words in Swahili, and Mrs Jane Heitmann mentioned that he was employed in an interpreting agency. In fact, he was employed in three different interpreting agencies, and it was interpreters' agencies that are actually on the lists used by the regions to use interpreters in the health services. This is just one example of the fact that there is very little control over the quality of the services provided by an interpreter. This is why a certification scheme is being set up, whereby an interpreter will have to pay in order to be certified by either a public or a private institution. The intention is then that you can get a paper on the competences that you have acquired or that you have paid to acquire. I think that this is clearly a step forward in relation to today, when there is a very poor chance of getting an impression of what an interpreter actually can do. Today it is left to health professionals to assess the quality of the interpretation, even if they themselves do not know anything about the language being interpreted. And that in itself is a very, very poor quality control. On the other hand, I believe that the quality of these certificates may also cause some problems when it is suggested that there should also be private institutions which should be able to make money from issuing certificates. We know systems elsewhere from where there is a connection between economics and certificates, and there may be a tendency for the quality of the exam, the quality of the certificates to progress. I have noticed that there must be supervision of quality, but nevertheless I find it a little worrying when there is too close a connection between how many exams and certificates you issue and how much money you can earn. We have proposed many times a certification scheme for all interpreters, not just for interpreters in the health service. But we have also pointed out that the fundamental problem with poor quality of interpretation is that we do not have an actual interpretation training in Denmark, just as there is no requirement in this context for the regions, in other contexts the courts, the asylum system, etc., to use the interpreters who are then trained or in this context certified. This bill still doesn't make that demand, and I think that's a problem. Because there is a significant risk that we will make a scheme, but that it will not have any effect because we do not use the certified interpreters. It says in the bill that I think it is on page 3 of the notes: "The communication between the patient and the health care professional is crucial to achieving the best possible patient care. That is part of the reason why interpretation is so important, and I fully agree with that. Mrs Jane Heitmann mentioned just before the example of whether you understand correctly when you are told that you are HIV positive or that you are HIV negative. It says something about the fact that it is not just about words; it is also about whether you understand a context and you can explain yourself. Interpreting and language are extremely sensitive, and when you move it into a context where we talk about a health professional language that many of us also find difficult to follow, even though we have Danish as a mother tongue, it becomes really, really difficult. For the same reason, I believe that it is a disaster that the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party have introduced user charges for interpretation in the health service. It does not just mean much bureaucratic trouble for doctors and regions who have to draw up bills and send them out, etc. We actually saw it so much trouble that it exceeded what you got into payment last time you had this kind of user charge. But first of all, I think it is a problem for the safety of patients. Because we know that there are many patients who also have poor language skills who have a poor economy. The risk that paying a fee for attending to your doctor or consulting a hospital will, unfortunately, prevent you from seeking help. And then I think it is absurd in itself to charge users for something when you stand here and admit that you know that quality is highly questionable. Yet the user fee exists today. They must pay, even if they may run the risk of meeting an interpreter who cannot interpret at all. In other words, we support the bill and stress that there is a long way to really solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123105136	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123105146	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we also think it is very sensible to set up a certification scheme for foreign language interpreters in the field of health. It is clear that details of the information provided in the health system can be of crucial importance, and therefore it is also very important that there can be no doubt about the powers of the interpreter. The scheme must operate with user charges for the interpreter who wants to obtain certification. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123105216	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123105222	Thank you. The alternative also supports a certification scheme which can ensure consistency and high quality of health in the interpretation. In the alternative, we welcome the draft law, as it is also something we have previously asked for and which we believe has been lacking. As has also been mentioned here, communication between the patient and the health care professional is essential in order to achieve the best possible patient treatment and safety. In the alternative, we have noted that for the submission of the bill it is written here by the government: "Missing or inadequate communication can, in the extreme, be a factor in misdiagnostic and mistreatment. Therefore, if a doctor and patient do not have the same mother tongue, and if they are unable to communicate in another language, foreign language interpretation plays an important role. We are, of course, in complete agreement with this, but we find the statement and the wording rather absurd, in the light of the debate we had here in Parliament, on the legislation, which the previous rapporteur also mentioned, that the government has adopted the self-payment of interpreting aid. That is precisely the argument we had in the Chamber about patient safety in relation to communication between doctor and patient. I will not fail to say here today that it is a good thing for the government to recognise how important this is. It is just really unfortunate that we have not taken the consequences of the legislative proposal on the self-payment of interpreters' assistance. Then I would like to mention that with regard to this bill we have some concerns about a few things. We are concerned about the requirement that certified interpreters should have a level of education similar to upper secondary school, as according to Immigrant Medical Clinic at Odense University Hospital it will exclude most of the current interpreters from being certified. We agree, of course, that we need to raise the level, but we think it is important that this should be done through gradual upgrading so that we do not get into a situation where the new system will not be used at all and we will then continue to lack qualified interpretation assistance. In addition, I have two issues that I would like to mention. We do not think that this arrangement should necessarily be in the Ministry of Health. Instead, it should be spread beyond several ministries, so that it applies to all areas where interpreters are needed. We believe that state interpretation training should be set up and that the public sector should be obliged over time to use certified interpreters. In addition, like Danish Refugee Aid, we believe that it should be free to be certified interpreter, otherwise there would be a shortage of certified interpreters. However, as I said, we are largely in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123105547	Thank you. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123105558	Thank you. It is very bad to say about the agreement made by the government and the Danish People's Party on health interpretation, because it is heartless to introduce fees which mean that we have patients who do not understand what the doctor says. But precisely this part of the Radical Left is good, because it is important, as the other rapporteurs have also said, that there is a quality of interpretation, so that the interpretation actually gives what we want, namely that you can understand what is being said, so that you know what to do and so that you understand what it is that is being given to you. That is why the Radical Left can support this proposal. However, we feel in the same way as some of the other rapporteurs, namely that we must keep up with what this means for development, and it is both about what the price of certification itself will mean, but also whether we will rule out some interpreters who otherwise do well. So I think we have to go into it in such a way that we support the proposal and then follow whether we have put the cut in the right place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123105714	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123105722	Thank you. Health communication is not only practical and sensible, it can also save lives. This also applies when, unfortunately, the patient does not speak a language that the doctor understands. It is absolutely essential for both the patient and the doctor that the interpretation in this situation is accurate and correct, because poor interpretation can lead to incorrect diagnoses and mistreatment. We have been and are still challenged in this area, and this is a question which I myself have asked the Minister for Health on several occasions, both in writing and in consultation, and in this connection I have also proposed to the Minister that interpreters should be certified, so that we are assured that the interpretation is correct. I can therefore immediately reveal that the SF supports that part of the proposal. The interpretation must be of as good a quality as possible, and interpreters working in the health service should also have specialist knowledge of health, and the interpreter must have competences in both Danish and the interpreted foreign language. However, interpretation techniques and interpretation ethics are also important competences to ensure that the interpreter acts professionally and respects confidentiality. Having said that, I will of course not miss a deep sigh, because it is only a short time ago that a majority decided that citizens can only have free interpreters in healthcare for three years. Citizens who are then still unable to formulate themselves in Danish must pay for interpretation. This is a paradox, because while we are now working to get better interpreters, we run the risk that the citizens who use the interpreters will opt them out because they cannot afford to use them. But that is not the only user fee in the proposal, because the proposal also provides for interpreters to be certified to pay a fee for it. SF would therefore like to ask for answers in committee on how much the fee for certification is expected to be, what it will cost to ensure free certification for interpreters, and whether the Minister can imagine that there can be a difference in the price of certification, depending on how often a language should be translated. However, as I have said, the SF wants to ensure high professional standards for foreign language interpretation so that patient safety is guaranteed and therefore the SF also votes in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123105946	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Erik Lund, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123105955	Thank you. There are still a number of citizens in Denmark who do not master the Danish language to the extent that they can have a conversation in Danish. This is true when they shop in business, when they attend meetings in the municipality, and that is true when they have to talk to a doctor or a nurse. When you act, you can make yourself understandable many times by, for example. pointing to what you have to buy and at meetings in the municipality with e.g. a case worker does not need to be life-threatening if one does not fully understand each other. But when it comes to health, for example. must tell a doctor or nurse about his or her illness, or when the doctor or nurse has to tell the patient what is wrong, it is a completely different matter. Here it is extremely important that there is no misunderstanding in the communication between the doctor, nurse and patient. Several rapporteurs have mentioned stories of interpreters who neither mastered the Danish language nor mastered the language that the interpreter now had to translate from time to time. I can then say that we have fortunately got away from there, that people who do not master the Danish language come with their children, who are then interpreters. I myself, as a former panthelogist in the City of Copenhagen, have experienced that there were parents with children as young as 6 years of age, perhaps who should be interpreters, and that is not very reassuring and not at all in a health care system. That is why it is also important that language interpretation is of good quality and that interpreters have some sort of specialist knowledge of health care, and I would very much like to know about the professional terms used in health care. It is the responsibility of the regions to assign good quality interpretation to patients, but we also know that there may be challenges in providing a sufficient number of qualified interpreters. So, in order to ensure this uniformity and higher quality of interpretation, the government and the Danish People's Party have agreed, in the context of the 2018 Finance Act, to set up a certification scheme for foreign language interpretation in the field of health care. The draft law empowers the Minister for Health to approve one or more public authorities and institutions as well as private actors to certify foreign language interpretations in the field of health. The institutions approved by the Minister shall offer and hold examinations in certification and issue certificates to the foreign language interpreters who have passed the examination. This means that the draft law allows the regions to take advantage of interpreters who master the Danish and foreign languages. Although it is voluntary for the regions to use certified interpreters, I hope that the regions will use these interpreters to a very large extent, which will benefit patients, doctors and nurses alike. But I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that once we have had enough interpretations, this must be a must: it is something that the regions must do. Conservatives support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123110240	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123110241	Thank you for your comments on the bill. As several colleagues have given some fine examples, it must be said that in recent years there has been a fluctuating quality in foreign language interpretation, among other things. Health. That is basically not good enough, because when you pay for an interpreter, as it is, if you have spent more than three years in the country, with the rules that we also introduced with the Finance Act last year and which were adopted here in the Danish Parliament before the summer holidays, you must of course also see that there is a proper quality in the interpretation that you meet. The Danish Government and the Danish People's Party agreed, in connection with the 2018 Finance Act, to set up a certification scheme for foreign language interpreters in the field of health precisely to ensure more uniformity and higher quality of interpretation in the field. There is no doubt that communication between the patient and the healthcare professional is important to ensure good patient care as well. However, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also said, in addition to the legislative proposal we are debating today, we have taken a number of other initiatives with the financial law agreement last year when it comes to interpretation in the health care sector. And we have, among other things. This is because foreign language interpretation in health care represents a relatively high cost to the public every year. The figures for the Danish Regions showed that the cost of interpreting assistance in 2017 was 170 million. kr. It is not reasonable, in the view of the government, for the government to spend such a large amount of money on paying for interpreting assistance, including interpreting assistance to foreigners who have been resident in Denmark for several years. That is why I am also pleased that a majority not only consisting of the government parties and the Danish People's Party, but also the Social Democratic Party, before the summer break, decided that people who have been resident in Denmark for more than 3 years will in future have to pay a fee for interpreting services necessary for their treatment with the doctor or at the hospital. The proposal we are debating today is then about certification in relation to ensuring the quality of it as well. It is also the case that we agreed with Dansk Folkeparti with the 2018 Finance Act to allocate money in addition to ensuring the creation of a national based video interpreting centre, so that we can also ensure that new technology will play a greater role in this area, so that with technological solutions we can come down to a hopefully quite different amount from what we spend on interpretation every year in the Danish healthcare system, and the money can instead be used to ensure good treatment and good quality for our patients. With the bill we are discussing today, and with the agreement the government made with the Danish People's Party on the Finance Act last year, we want the government to raise the level and quality of the interpretation, and there is no doubt that we see a certification system as the right way to go. This must be done in the right way, because it is also important to ensure that the system works in practice, and that is why, with the drafting of the legislative proposal, we are proposing that this is something that can be done, as well as we are proposing that there should be a supply and competition situation, in relation to what some institutions are offering certification schemes. With the many different languages, it has to be said that there will probably be a difference in who can certify in the different language areas in order to ensure a sufficiently high quality and to ensure that the fee that the SF rapporteur has also asked for will also have a size where it will be sustainable in the long term. That is why a maximum price for the fee system has not been set. Supply and demand have been set up so that the various institutions, whether professional colleges or various other educational institutions, will offer the certification scheme, also assessing what the price will be in relation to the individual certification. I hope that the draft law can be properly dealt with by the committee and, of course, I will make myself available for any questions that may be raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123110654	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123110706	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123110726	Thank you very much, President. These are three very important issues that are part of the discussion of this bill. These are three issues which have also been the subject of much discussion and discussion. The first issue is that we have to decide whether 15 to 17-year-olds can take responsibility for themselves and decide whether they want to be organ donors. The second issue is that we must decide whether research projects should be carried out on brain-dead patients and citizens. The third issue is that we have to decide how to set the framework for autopsies of citizens, patients who die unexpectedly and early. The first issue of organ donation is very much a subject that is being discussed politically, and it has been for many years. For 10 years we have had the center of organ donation in Denmark. In 2013, a working group with patient organisations, professional organisations and the Ministry of Health was set up to make recommendations to the organ donation area as a whole. They made 14 recommendations. This is an important issue. For social democracy there is only one goal, and that is that we should have enough organs in Denmark for the number of citizens, patients who need to be transplanted. We are quite impatient in this area, but we also know that there must be very well-qualified and thorough political and professional discussions behind it before we take the decision on new measures. The measure included in this bill to offer 15 to 17-year-olds to take responsibility for themselves, to take a position and to consent that after their death tissue and other biological material must be removed for transplantation is a right decision. We support it. It is also very important that we have built in, that the custody holders can oppose this donation if the young person is under 18 years of age. We need more organs. I've been looking at the last statistic. There are 429 patients in the first half of 2018 who are actively on a waiting list for a new organ. Last year, in 2017, there were 374 patients who were transplanted and who received at least one organ, but only 22 per cent. That is why we are now making political efforts to increase the number of people who have signed up for the Donor Register, so that we can respond more fully to the need for organ transplants in Denmark. The second issue is research projects on brain-dead patients and citizens. We will, by creating the new framework, we think, be able to optimize the number of organs being donated, and that is the purpose. I think we're setting a nice and good framework in the bill. The third issue is scientific autopsies of citizens who die very suddenly and many at a very young age. I myself have been concerned about this for several years, when there has been a discrepancy between the desire of health care to do autopsies and the capacity there is, and many times it is also the police who stand as an authority that also needs to be asked. There has also been a challenge in relation to the payment of autopsies. Why is this so important? Yes, it is so that we can become wiser and provide security, security, and quiet for the bereaved. What we are deciding now is that the regions must be able to enter into agreements with the forensic institutes, where the autopsies can be done in a highly qualified manner. And this means that you will be able to achieve results that will provide peace, security and security and create an understanding among the bereaved, perhaps children, who will be aware that one of their parents has died from a genetically-conditioned disease. So we think this is three very fine legislative changes that Social Democrats support. But we would also like the Minister to be aware of sharing the results and perhaps to make an evaluation of these three elements with the Committee on Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123111235	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123111244	Former rapporteurs have nicely pointed out what this is about. Organ donation is, of course, something that we have had up to the debate over the years and that we all care about, but it is also an issue that is very close to all of us, because there are many feelings behind it. It's about what it's like to get out of here, what's gonna happen, and that it's our next of kin who might have to sit around and make some decisions. For the Danish People's Party, it has been important that nothing is forced over people's heads, that you can always take a position, that you are heard, and that the relatives are also always heard. But it is important that you also have the talk at home around the dining table or wherever you are. That is also why we welcome the fact that you can take a position at the age of 15, because this is precisely a time when you might think a little bit about what is going to happen to me or my parents, grandparents? And have this talk, so you know, what is it that I stand for, what is it that my family stands for? so you know, the day you might have to decide. It turns out, of course, that even in countries that have supposed consent or a combination, there are a lot of people who say no when they are in the situation, because they listen to the relatives. In fact, you listen to them, even if you have rejected or agreed to them. That is, of course, the ethical basis on which you as a doctor do not want to stand and fight for the patient who is there. That is why it is important that we continue to talk about it so that it does not become a taboo, as death is many times. One of the other things in the proposal is that research projects must be able to be carried out precisely in order to optimise the transplant outcome as you wish. The last thing in the proposal is autopsy. We have also pointed out in the past to the Minister that this was not good enough because many times we cannot find the underlying diseases. But it must be said that, of course, relatives must always be able to oppose it no matter what. The only time you can't resist autopsy is if there's been a criminal act. It is not everyone who wants to have his or her relatives autopsyed, and therefore he or she must also be able to take it into account. All in all, however, we are positive about the proposal and will vote in favour when it comes to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123111551	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123111602	Organ donation is one of the main themes of the bill we are discussing today, not just organ donation in the traditional sense, but organ donation in relation to the 15-17-year-olds. Let me make it clear straight away, quite clearly, that we in the Left would like to see even more Danes take a position on organ donation and that there are more who might want to help a fellow human being with a body, because it is in every way a laudable act that requires both great recognition and respect. The bill contains three different parts, two of which will help strengthen the area of organ donation. Organ donation is a subject that pops up over and over again, and it also does so later today in the form of a citizens' proposal. It is in every way unhappy when you are seriously ill and can only save your life with a new organ, but there is no organ. I think I dare say that, across political differences, we are very much in agreement that we must work towards more donating bodies in Denmark. However, we do not always agree on the way to the goal; we have discussed supposed consent in the past. For me, this is a difficult ethical question, for who owns your body, is it our own, or is it the state, and why not just say yes to organ donation? Won't most people like to receive an organ, either if you, your spouse, child or brother or sister, get sick and could be saved by a new organ. The bill strengthens the organ transplant area, and today you have to be 18 years old to register as an organ donor, and fortunately many do. With the bill, the government proposes to lower the age limit so that you can already register at the age of 15, thus giving young people the opportunity to take an active position early in life and to take some important considerations which may be of great importance to those people who need to be donated a body. I hope, of course, that it will never be necessary to transplant from a young person, but unfortunately accidents happen, and it is always good to have taken a position on organ donation in time, both so that our survivors are not entirely left with the big questions, but also so that we can have peace of mind with ourselves. At the age of 15, you will be given new opportunities and more responsibility today as a birthday present. You have to decide the big questions about e.g. education choices, you may be punished if you do something illegal, you can get NemID, and you are no longer during the sexually low age, and especially in relation to health law, the 15th birthday is almost landmark. From this point of view, we in the Left believe that it makes great sense to also give 15-year-olds the opportunity to decide whether they want to be an organ donor and, if so, which bodies they want to donate. Of course, parents also have a great responsibility, which is why it is also crucial that, in the circumstances, it is the custody holder who may be able to veto and have the last word. And the hand on the heart, I would like to meet the parent who goes against a 17-year-old's wish, but the opportunity must be there simply because we are parents. As a mother of three children, it has been crucial for me that the possibility of having the last word is present. There are many emotions in play and in squeeze, and that must be respected. Lowering the age limit for organ donation is the first of three elements of the bill. The second element is also about strengthening the area of organ transplantation, and it is more specifically about strengthening research in this area. With this bill, we're opening up the possibility of transplant-related research on brain-dead. This possibility is, of course, conditional on the specific consent of the brain-dead person or his or her relatives. In a joint opinion, the National Scientific Committee and the Ethics Council have recommended opening up the possibility of researching those situations. We therefore strengthen research in this area, but do not compromise on the individual's right to self-determination. Research must continue to be based on active consent. And that is important because all of us, including in death, must have the right to control our own body. However, we must ensure that there are good opportunities for those who want to contribute to research and those who want to donate organs to be able to do so. Organ donation is essential, and donations make a huge difference because they save lives. I am an organ donor myself, and I hope that even more will join as an organ donor in the future. Let us make a difference together, because action is needed. The last part of the bill deals with autopsies, and here too we are moving in an area which is certainly neither cheerful nor pleasant to talk about. It is an autopsy of people who die suddenly or unexpectedly. Today, the regions cannot make arrangements with the forensic institutes for the autopsy of those people. This means that the autopsy of a person who dies suddenly and unexpectedly can only be done in the hospital, and here the quality is not necessarily at the same level as in the forensic institutes. The question is: What is the challenge? To answer that question, I would like to highlight a few figures. In fact, in 2002, 3.682 hospital autopsies were carried out and only 598 hospital autopsies were carried out in 2016. In the light of these comments, the Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123112139	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123112146	Thank you. When I was in high school, I think it was when I was in second grade, we got a job in Danish, in Danish style • I don't know if you still call it that and the task was that we should take a position on the ethical dilemmas associated with organ donation. As far as I am concerned, this gave rise to a conversation with my parents about how they would feel if I volunteered as an organ donor. So we should try to have this conversation, which is very difficult, if not impossible, to have in advance, but which one still needs to have, about how they would feel in the situation where a tragedy would lead me to become an organ donor. Of course, I also had to give some thought to what I myself thought about my ethical obligations and so on. And that's why I signed up for the organ donor register myself. There were others in my class at that time who were not, in fact, 18 years old yet, but I really think that we were all able to make the reflections that should precede the decision on organ donation. That is why I think it is a very good proposal that there should now be an opportunity for you to take a position on this question of organ donation from 15 years of age. It is also a proposal that comes in view of the fact that we have regular discussions across the parties here in the Danish Parliament about what we can do to ensure that more people take an active position on organ donation and that, moreover, we also reflect the second part of the proposal, which relates to the fact that research on transplants will now be carried out in the future, and that we have a talk about what we can do to increase the quality of the organs donated; how we can ensure that there are more organs available. I think it is a very good cooperation and a good way to do it, that we constantly have joint talks about what can be tried by some of it also as an attempt. But something also leads, as in this case, to actual legislative changes, which hopefully will mean that there will be more of them waiting for a body that will be able to do so in the future. Finally, there is, of course, a very third proposal which deals with autopsies and which has nothing to do with organ donation. As several people before me have said, in the case of a person who suddenly and unexpectedly dies, there must be an opportunity for you to have a thorough autopsy than you can today. And this is particularly important because what we need to know is, of course, whether there is a reason behind this sudden and unexpected death, a knowledge that can benefit the relatives, for example. information about a genetic heart disease that other relatives could also have and which could be prevented. This knowledge will never be provided unless a thorough autopsy is carried out, and it is therefore incredibly important that this possibility is strengthened. I will not start the discussion on supposed consent to organ donation. We will return to it later today. However, I would just like to say here that the three proposals that this bill entails, we can support on the part of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123112542	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123112549	Thank you. The first element of the bill on the possibility for 15-17-year-olds to give their own consent to organ donation is our support in the Liberal Alliance. We believe that young people in today's Denmark are self-conscious young people who are aware of life's decisions, including the slightly difficult decisions, such as taking a position on organ donation. Together with the custody holder, 15 to 17-year-olds have increased participation and self-determination in their own lives. We support that in the Liberal Alliance. A longer talk about organ donation I will come back to when we reach that proposal later this day. The Liberal Alliance can also support the proposal's second element of allowing research projects on brain-dead, of course, after the consent of the deceased or relatives. We are sensitive to the desire to optimise transplant results, as it is expected to benefit the possibility of organ transplantation. There is an increasing need for organ donation, and this bill is a step in the right direction in order to meet this particular need. The last element of the bill is to allow the regions to agree with the country's forensic institutes on the conduct of medical autopsies on sudden and unexpectedly deceased persons. In the Liberal Alliance, we are particularly sensitive to the fact that several studies have shown that sudden and unexpected brain death in younger people in about half of the cases is due to hereditary heart disease. This means that relatives of the deceased may also have the same disease. Against this background, we in the Liberal Alliance can support the proposal in order to allow forensic autopsies to be carried out which can determine with greater certainty whether the cause of death is due to brain death or hereditary heart disease. Relatives of the deceased are entitled to as secure an answer as possible and this is made possible to a greater extent by this bill. We therefore support the third element of the proposal, which is why we can support the entire legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123112820	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123112827	Thank you. As we have heard, this bill contains three elements. One is about consent age, in relation to whether 15-17-year-olds themselves can consent to organ donation. The second is research on brain death, and the third is autopsy, in connection with the sudden and unexpected death of the person. As several rapporteurs have also mentioned, this is an ethically dilemma, and I will go into this in more detail in my rapporteur's speech in relation to the citizens' proposal we are discussing later today. This is among other things. a question of who owns our body. Is it ourselves, or is it the state? And, of course, it is also a question of how we need more organs. So there are a lot of different dilemmas associated with this. I would like to say from the outset that we fully support the proposal on children and young people. We believe that children and young people can take a position. Two of the consultations from the Ethics Council and the Children's Council note that it must be followed up with a special effort to inform and guide children and young people. I think that is very sensible and it must be done. We heard a former rapporteur who had worked with it at school, and that also means that we will then have a greater insight into it, and that is, of course, very important. It is to young people as well as to adults. We are also in favour of the proposal on autopsy, and then there is the third proposal on research, and we have some reservations about that, because it is a question of brain-dead. This isn't about the deceased. So you want to do research on people who are brain-dead and who are not yet heart-dead. We have some doubts about that, and I think it is reasonable that the consultation note says that we should at least give separate consent to that part, so that we are aware that research will also be carried out in relation to our bodies when we have agreed to organ donation. So we have some doubts and will pursue them further in the legislative process. We are generally positive, we just have some questions for that part of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123113131	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will continue to speak, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123113145	Thank you. We can save lives if more people become organ donors. I think that things are going too slowly and that too little is happening at Christiansborg, but I really intend to save the powder for the important citizen's proposal that we will be discussing shortly. I just want to say that this proposal is a small step in the right direction. In the Radical Left, we think it is good that more research and knowledge is coming and that it is also good that young people between the ages of 15 and 17 can be allowed to take a position. And this bill reminds me of the time when I tried to sign up for the Donor Register and got a letter back that I wasn't old enough. It provoked me very much back then that I could not be allowed to be registered. And so I would like to say to all the other 15-year-old Lotts who may be out there: Now you can register, and I hope there are many who will use it to take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123113256	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are also no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123113304	Thank you. Too few Danes have registered as organ donors, although a massive majority is in favour of organ donation. That is really a pity, because we need more people to take a stand because it can save lives. That is why the SF also supports the proposal that young people 15 to 17-year-olds should be able to give their consent in future to the removal of tissues and other biological material for transplantation after their death. However, we still believe that it is a big decision to stand by at such a young age, which is why we also believe that parents of the child should also be allowed to Lotter out there, both to be informed about the young person's decision, but also to have the opportunity to say no. There must be an appropriate balance between the right of the young person to self-determination over his own body and respect for parental authority. The SF also supports the proposal to authorise transplant-related research on brain death. We believe that treatment offers should be strengthened and we also believe that the ban on research on brain-dead should be waived. More research is needed in this area, and that is why we also believe that it makes sense to derogate from the ban so that we can hopefully optimise treatments and save more lives in the future. The last part of the proposal, which is about autopsy, also supports SF. It is important for us that the remaining relatives should be offered clarification of the cause of death, not least in order to determine whether the cause of death may be hereditary. That is why we also agree that persons who have died suddenly and unexpectedly before the age of 50 are autopsyed at forensic institutes. The autopsy will not only give the family certainty as to why their loved ones died at an early age, but hopefully it can also help prevent further deaths, which may be caused by hereditary diseases. So SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123113507	Thank you. And the last in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123113516	Thank you. When should a young person be able to consent to organ donation? Should it be when you're 18, or should it be earlier? Age limits move quietly as young people become more and more enlightened. I remember when I was getting married. There were then different age limits for when men and women had to marry. My then wife could marry without problems because she had just turned 18, while I, who was 19, had to seek King Frederik IX's permission to enter into marriage. It was later changed so that the limit was reduced to 20 years for men it was 21 earlier but now it is the same for both sexes, so you can marry when you are 18 years old. So age limits change over time. Now we have a legislative proposal that allows 15 to 17-year-olds to give their own consent to organ donation, which, on the one hand, gives young people a greater degree of participation, but also strengthens treatment provision for transplants in the longer term. Although many people today have already actively signed up to the Donor Register, we need even more to take a position. I can say that I myself took a really long time, my wife moved me many times, and I really wanted to be a donor, but oh, I didn't just get my shit together. But fortunately I have done that a few years ago, so I'm standing there too. The proposal for 15 to 17-year-olds does not necessarily provide more donors here and now, because fortunately not many 15 to 17-year-olds die. But I hope and believe that when the 15- to 17-year-olds sign up for the Donor Register, they will also remain in the register and they will help to influence others to get on the register too, which is why in the long term we can get more organ donors. It is also important to point out that parents still have a right of veto over decisions on organ donation in cases where the young person dies before the young person reaches the age of 18. Even if the young person has consented to organ donation. The second element of the draft law then provides for the regions to convert medical autopsies of people who have died suddenly and unexpectedly, i.e. from doing it themselves in hospitals to being transferred to forensic institutes. That would be quite reasonable, as the hospitals today perform fewer and fewer autopsies and therefore may not be so routine for it anymore. It is therefore quite natural to move it over and give them the opportunity to ask the forensic institutes to do so. They have a very high level of knowledge about this and are doing a very good job. The last part of the draft law forms the basis for the provision that relatives of persons who have died suddenly and unexpectedly must now be offered an offer for clarification of the cause of death by an autopsy, so that the relatives of a thorough professional indication can be offered genetic analysis. Several people have mentioned this, and we think it is very good and sensible, so that if someone in the family is dead, you can find out if it is something that is hereditary and then get on with it. So Conservatives support all three parts of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123113823	Thank you. That was the rapporteur's line, and I now give the floor to the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123113831	Thank you for the comments on the bill and for the basically positive reception. The draft law, as has also been said by several of my colleagues, contains three elements: a change in the age limit for opinion on organ donation, a permit for transplant-related brain-death research and the possibility of an agreement on the conduct of medical autopsies at forensic institutes. The two proposals relating to organ donation have been discussed very much in the past, including in the circle of health rapporteurs sitting in this Chamber today, because they are proposals arising from discussions that we have had in the ethical circle of health rapporteurs and where there has been broad support for the proposals. And that is why it is perhaps not so much surprising that today a broad consensus is also expressed, because I actually see this as an expression of the good way in which we work in the ethical circle, where we also have to talk in an area such as organ donation continuously and constantly about how we can become even better at ensuring that there are sufficient Danes who take a position and sign up for organ donation, and thus also ensure that we have a sufficient number of organs available in Denmark for those people who are in a situation where they lack a new body. It is therefore also a legislative proposal which reflects both what I see as the Government's desire to strengthen the organ donation area in Denmark, but also the common desire, which has been in the ethical circle, to strengthen the area. It is also against this background that we propose to amend the Health Act so that the 15 to 17-year-olds themselves can give their consent that after their death tissue or other biological material must be removed for transplantation. The aim of the proposal is to give young people both a greater degree of participation and an opportunity to give their consent to organ donation, but of course also to ensure that we take up the debate again and again on how to ensure that more people take up positions. It is also assumed in the bill, as several of the rapporteurs have said, that, if donation is made before the age of 18, the custody holder can oppose the donation. The second element is also very much about improving organ donation, namely by strengthening treatment provision for transplants in the long term. It is also a proposal that has been discussed in the ethical circles, and it is an expression of the need for research in this area, which is to a large extent to be expected to benefit the possibility of transplanting organs and helping in relation to the increasing need for donations of organs that we see in Denmark. That is also why, in this context, we are proposing to derogate from the current ban on brain-dead research, where the research project is intended precisely to optimise transplant results. At the same time, it is very important that the integrity, dignity and right to self-determination of the deceased be respected, even after the death of the person. That is also why I can actually wonder a little about the issues raised by the alternative rapporteur in this Chamber today, but we must then clarify this in the legislative procedure. However, what we have agreed in the ethical circle, and what is also expressed in the legislative proposal, is that there are a number of conditions that must be met before a transplant-related research project on the brain-dead begins. For example: the research project must be subjected to a scientific assessment and research must be carried out only on processes which the brain-dead person usually undergoes during transplantation. Well, it is not the case that organs that could have been used for organ donation then suddenly turn to research purposes. However, if a research process can be related to and lead to more organs hopefully being re-used and used to pass life on to others, it can be an important part of researching that process. Specific requirements are also made for the consent of the brain-dead or his immediate relative. And it was also one of the things that the government, but also the ethical community, has considered important, so that not only do we take for granted that because we have taken a position on organ donation, we have also taken a position on the dimension of research. But I hope that we can clarify this, because I believe that the comments made by the Alternative rapporteur must be based on a biased view of what is actually contained in the draft law. Overall, we on the part of the government want to ensure that there are more people who can help to give life on by signing up as organ donors in Denmark, and I know that we will also discuss this a little later in the Chamber today. The last element of the draft law is to ensure that more people who die suddenly and unexpectedly will in future be autopsyed, and it is therefore also proposed that it be possible for the regions to agree with the country's forensic institutes on the carrying out of medical autopsy on persons who suddenly and unexpectedly die. It is the case that autopsies carried out at the forensic institutes are more extensive than the hospital autopsies that we have in many places today, and thus it also means a more secure exclusion of causes of death than heart death. These may be conditions where there have been no good intentions, because when we look at the forensic autopsies, toxicological studies are also carried out. So, in addition to the fact that there may be an element in the police investigation, in which we have a better basis for determining the cause of death, there is also, to a large extent, an element which is about ensuring that, if and if it is hereditary conditions, it can also be used in relation to the relatives who are left behind, in relation to the fact that, as several of the rapporteurs have said, it is also very much in relation to, for example, those who are left behind. genetic diseases, which can carry the joints, ensure proper treatment for the survivors. There is also no doubt that when we look at the professional quality and also a one-way practice in autopsies, centering the task handling on a few seats is also something that can help maintain a high quality in the autopsies in Denmark. Of course, I am making myself available for any questions that may be in the legislative process, but I also hope that we can have the questions raised by the Alternative's rapporteur demystified, because I think they are based on a misconception of what is specifically contained in the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123114515	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123114535	The debate is open. The first speaker is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123114557	Thank you for that, President. This bill is about whether you get a bill if you are treated in the Danish health care system, and you are a tourist, for example, or you are here for a short stay, that you are here without having a residence in Denmark. It may also be about those who have left Denmark, are removed from Denmark and are thus not covered by the normal health insurance cover that you have as a citizen of Denmark. What right and what obligation should one have to pay for oneself, what right and opportunity should there be for us to keep as much money at home in the Danish healthcare system as possible? That's what the bill is about. In connection with its Financial Act 2018 the government has discussed this here, and it is with the background that this bill is now being debated today. The Social Democratic Party supports this bill. It is reasonable for the regions to have an opportunity to say to a greater extent that they are a guest in Denmark, and if you have received hospital treatment, then there should also be the possibility that you can use the many tourists' health insurances or travel insurances to pay for the treatment they have received in Denmark. We also think that the draft law has provided for some exceptions which are good. For example, we are talking about everyone under the age of 18. It is the pregnant women who will need treatment and possibly childbirth, if it is before week 37, and then it must be clearly stated that you are a guest in Denmark and you will need emergency treatment, then no one can be denied treatment based on the fact that you may not be paying for it. However, from the Socialist point of view, it is extremely important that we have a structure and a framework that is flexible, flexible, unbureaucratic, because it is our clear picture that the staff working in our health services have more than enough to look at in advance. So a flexible, non-bureaucratic method is at least what we will be watching for in fact is also what will be the framework for it. It is the case that for EU citizens, and fortunately we have very many of them who visit and stay in Denmark, a set of rules has already been laid down on how they can obtain reimbursement for the costs. It is also important to say that clarification in the law is that our kingdom is of course composed of three countries. Citizens living in the Faroe Islands and Greenland should not be covered by the new rules. There we have another very good set of rules which ensure security and security and the ability to draw on the professional capacity and competence of what is the overall framework of the Kingdom Community. Social democracy thinks that this is an excellent draft law and we support it with these comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123114918	Thank you. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123114931	Thank you very much. In 2016, the regions estimated that it cost 428 million. kr. to treat foreign citizens in the Danish hospitals. It is therefore money that is taken from the health services for which we already find it difficult to prioritise funds. Therefore, the Danish People's Party made this proposal when we were negotiating the Finance Act last year and fully agreed with the government that we had to do something about it. After all, some regions were in fact a little better at scraping money than others, and some said that there was a lack of legislation in this area. That, then, is what we are doing now, and at least there is no more excuse for it. The draft law requires the regions to collect payments from persons who are temporarily resident in Denmark, i.e. without being resident in Denmark. The payment must be charged for both emergency hospital treatment and continued hospital treatment provided when it is not considered reasonable to refer the person to treatment in the country of origin. The clear starting point must be that treatment is granted free of charge only in exceptional cases. However, no acutely ill or injured patients should be denied treatment in the public health service on the basis of payment claims. For example: it is the case that tourists in Denmark as a starting point have travel insurance or health insurance. As far as the citizens of the European Union are concerned, the regions already have the opportunity to recover the costs of hospital care, and they must therefore do so much more in the future. The Government and the Danish People's Party consider it reasonable that insurance companies and the relevant health insurance countries should pay for the treatment they receive. We certainly pay a lot when Danish citizens are travelling in other countries, so of course we also have to have some economy the other way. So we support 100% of the proposal and rather yesterday than tomorrow, so let's just get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123115152	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the next speaker is the rapporteur on the Left, Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123115202	Thank you. We must ensure that we always have the most health for the money, and we must ensure that we use the health services' resources in the best way possible. To pay for the free treatment of foreign citizens in the Danish healthcare system is not to spend the Danes' money in the best possible way, and we are now doing something about that. With the 2018 Finance Act, the government and the Danish People's Party agreed to do something about the expenses of the Danish state for emergency and follow-up hospital treatment of citizens from third countries who are only temporarily staying in Denmark. First of all, I would like to make it clear that we must of course provide help to people who become acutely ill, whether they are here on a visit or live here permanently. Unfortunately, it is just the case that today the regions cannot charge a tourist, for example, who is being treated for acute illness in a Danish hospital. When we Danes go out into the world, most of us have travel insurance in our luggage, and we do, in case the accident should be out and we get sick or we get hurt. We have an insurance policy so that we do not risk coming home from a journey with a huge bill for treatment in another country of a health care other than the Danish one. If we do not have insurance, we will have to pay for the treatment we have received. For most Danes it is quite natural to take out private travel insurance. When my children and I were on skiing in Austria several years ago, I enjoyed my private travel insurance, and when I was on a trekking trip in Morocco a few years ago, I enjoyed my private travel insurance, and when my daughter was travelling to Nicaragua and stepped on a toxic scorpion, as a mother, I was happy that before departure I had equipped her with a global travel insurance insurance scheme, to mention just a few examples. Most people who come to Denmark temporarily also have insurance, and it is the insurance that will cover their treatment if the accident is out. It is not the Danish taxpayers who have to pay for the treatment. We have prioritized the Danish healthcare system year after year, and in the Left we have a very sharp focus on the Danes' health care, because we want a healthcare system that delivers high quality treatment to the delight of all Danes. Since the 2015 elections alone, we have lifted it by 5.5 billion. kr. and strengthened the rights of Danish patients. But it is quite crazy that with one hand we are raising the health service to the benefit of Danish patients and with the other hand even and freely treat foreign patients. The Ministry of Health and the Elderly estimates that the regions can benefit from an economic benefit of between 36 and 76 million. kr. By changing the rules proposed by the government, and that's a lot of money. Having said that, we do not want to change the current rules as regards Greenland, the Faroe Islands or the EU regulation. Common sense is that in Denmark we pay for the treatment of Danish patients and that at the same time we allow foreign patients with temporary stay to cover their acute and other treatment costs, for example. through their own national insurance policies. The Left can support the bill as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123115514	Thank you. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123115522	Thank you for that, President. The draft law here implies, as it says, that certain people who are not resident in this country must pay in case they need urgent medical care. However, emergency medical care must always be provided, even in cases where they cannot pay. The wording of certain people who are not resident in this country is a little special, and the draft law further specifies who it is so more concrete. It is first of all tourists and others who are on short stays, for example. vacation, here in the country. Secondly, it is people who are temporarily resident but do not have a residence in this country. Thirdly, it is immigrants who are awaiting residence registration in connection with family reunification, and fourthly, people who have moved from Denmark and no longer have Danish health insurance. At the same time, the draft law contains a large number of exceptions, and here it is appropriate, I think, to thank those politicians who have over the years decided that Denmark is part of a large number of international conventions • the Convention on Human Rights, the Women's Convention and the Convention on the Rights of the Child • for those conventions are part of the reason, as I read it, that children under 18 years of age are completely exempt, whether they are tourists or not; that births that take place, even if they are not for normal term, are excluded from payment; that vulnerable and vulnerable groups who have no ability to pay, for example. foreign homeless, asylum seekers and illegals are exempt from payment, just as everyone else I started by saying, who is unable to pay, is also always guaranteed emergency medical care. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we think it makes sense that tourists who usually want to have travel insurance to cover the costs receive a bill in case they need treatment for acute illness. We are more sceptical about imposing user charges on the group defined as family members who are not yet registered in a home. It's some people who have to live here or who you expect to live here. I do not quite know how many it is about or what it is about, and that is why we need to shed more light on what it is more concrete for a group that may well be in this country, but therefore does not yet have a residence registration. This will determine what we vote for the bill. It is also possible that we should table an amendment to remove the specific group. Then we want more information on the expected savings resulting from the bill. I understood from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that there was expenditure of over 400 million. kr. for consideration, but the savings expected from the bill are only about 10 or 20 per cent. of that amount. So what is the reason for the big difference? Are these the many exceptions involved? Is it a question of there being a great deal of bureaucracy that goes with it because you suddenly have to settle the bill for those services? After all, we are not used to today that an emergency clinic or a food reception for that matter makes bills up. That is why we think it is quite essential that we do not make a legislative proposal which imposes a huge administrative burden on hospitals and staff. At any rate, it must never be the case that it should be administrative or economic conditions for that matter that delay treatment. This is also a point made by a large number of the consultation responses we have received, and several of them also call for it to be written directly into the law that administrative and economic issues should not delay urgent treatment. So, to sum up, I would say that there are elements in the proposal that we can support and that there is one that we are more sceptical about and that we need further clarification before we can finally take a position on how we will vote on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123115939	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123120000	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance we think that the very large Danish tax payments should primarily benefit Danes. It is reasonable that foreigners without residence in Denmark should initially finance stays in Danish hospitals. It is only exceptionally and in exceptional circumstances that Denmark pays the bill for hospital treatment for foreigners without residence in Denmark. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123120030	Thank you. It was commendable on a long day in here with the same rapporteurs all the way through. Then it is the rapporteur for the alternative, Mrs Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123120046	As several rapporteurs have said today, tourists often have travel insurance, and in the alternative we agree that for people who come to Denmark and have travel insurance, it is of course the travel insurance that has to pay if you need this medical care. That is interesting, I think, because the rapporteur of the Left said that most people who come to Denmark also have health insurance. I do not quite know what that number is, but I think that is a little interesting to know, because there may well be people who do not have health insurance, who are guests in Denmark. But there is one thing that I have noticed and that we have noticed in the alternative, and that is the danger that we might have a skewed understanding of the alternative, as I was told before by the Minister that I had in connection with the previous draft law. We like to have a skewed understanding of the alternative, so it was actually a compliment from the Minister, and it may well be that we also have a skewed understanding of it here, but we, like the previous rapporteur, have also stumbled over it here with whom it is the draft law touches, and that, for example, one of the reasons for this is that we have not been able to accept it. refers to persons on temporary residence without residence registration, residents who are awaiting residence registration in relation, for example, to: family reunification. We have also stumbled over this, and we have read it this way, and we see it in such a way that there is a danger that it might potentially hit some of those who stand as some of the weakest in this society, and we are also interested in getting some further details about that part of the bill. Because in the alternative, we think that we are seeing more and more proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber and in our discussions, which are about identifying something with some foreigners, and that we are closing ourselves more and more, and we would of course like to be sure that this bill is not one in which we are like closing ourselves. We believe that the generosity of providing medical care and treating across nationalities and backgrounds is one of the real beauty of Danish society. So we, like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, are also very interested in deepening this part of this bill and, as a starting point, we have been sceptical about the bill. I understand that it is also seen as a form of administrative legislation that does not really want to make such a big difference, but I think it is important to look at that part of the legislative proposal and get some answers to some things about it. We have also noted in the hearings that the Danish Paediatric Society, for example. has the wording here with, a concern they have with, and it is a quote: If the informed consent is to be real, it must mean that price lists are drawn up for what different parts of a treatment cost so that patients can decide what they can afford. This will lead to a fundamental change in the way the Danish emergency receptions work. This may ultimately mean that the treatment level is divided into different price ranges depending on what patients can pay. The Institute for Human Rights finds the arrangement in which patients should be given the opportunity to give informed consent to a calculated payment for hospital treatment difficult to understand and probably also difficult to administer for hospitals. So we have some reservations about the bill and I, like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, would like to address it openly. We were actually going to say no to the proposal, but I would like to wait and say that we remain open to the answers we receive in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123120512	You're welcome. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mrs Lotte Rod. But before I give the floor to Mrs Lotte Rod, I would like to make a small service announcement. I would like to recommend that you do not have an activity on the public benches which interferes with the work in the Chamber or disturbs other listeners when you may have brought in a camera to take pictures. Here you go, Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123120539	Thank you. I agree with the government that it makes sense for tourists in Denmark who have health insurance to pay for themselves. That's a fair principle. On the other hand, it is also important to me and to us in the Radical Left that this does not mean that people who are here and are not just tourists are caught up. And that shows the importance and value of this proposal that we are included in a number of conventions. Because when you listen to the debate on conventions, it sometimes sounds like something that is very far away, or some piece of paper that is really miserable and that blocks us from doing anything. But this proposal shows very clearly that the conventions are real rights for real people, because the conventions mean that if you are a child, if you are homeless, if you are an asylum seeker or pregnant, you have the right to treatment without paying. We could remind each other of this when we have these discussions on conventions every once in a while, because it has a real value for real people. Basically, we in the Radical Left are in favour of this bill, but as some of the other rapporteurs have said, there are two things that we would like to use the committee procedure for. One is that I would like to be sure that none of them are not just tourists who get caught. And that is why we are a little interested in this question: who is here who does not have a residence permit yet? And, of course, we have to make sure that with this bill we're not going to hit anyone inappropriately. The second is that I would like to drill a little in the economy. Because it is relevant, when you introduce this kind of payment, that it is in line with what the cost is actually to have the system, which is to administer it, so that we do not have any arrangements where the administration is too expensive in relation to what you are scratching in. And that is why, as some of the other rapporteurs have also mentioned, I am a little interested in what the calculation of this is, so that we are sure that it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123120804	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123120813	Thank you. Good and equal health care requires health care to be free of user fees and we can be proud of a well-functioning health care system in many ways. However, just as we have to take out travel insurance to ensure that we are treated when travelling out into the world, we can easily expect citizens who choose Denmark as a holiday destination to also provide travel insurance. Today, the regions bear the costs of emergency hospital care for people who are not covered by EU law and who are not resident in Denmark. It is not cheap for the regions to bear the cost for these people, and therefore it makes good sense to look at how to clarify the provisions of the Health Act on the collection of payments for continued treatment when it is not possible for the patient to be treated in his home country. Therefore, we also see nothing wrong with the Danish hospital costs being applied to patients living in this country, as the other patients without Danish residence will typically be covered by their own travel or health insurance, and also by far most EU citizens are publicly insured under EU law. However, it is also important for us to stress that no acutely ill or injured patients must be denied treatment in a public health system if they do not have the opportunity to pay for it, just as it is important for us to stress that we do not agree to deny treatment to, for example, homeless and pregnant women who have a resident spouse and who are awaiting residence registration if the need arises. The SF will vote in favour of the proposal, but only if the derogations for people who do not have to pay remain in force and if, in addition to the exceptions provided for, the region can provide emergency and continued hospital treatment free of charge when the region considers it appropriate in the circumstances. The SF therefore also agrees that we should ask some questions which we can also discuss during the committee procedure, where, among other things, we can discuss them. have looked at what kind of group they call family couples without residence registration and how many they are dealing with. One could also consider whether, for example, all births should be completely exempted. Finally, it could be considered how difficult it would be for the departments to manage this entire registration of payment, i.e. whether we risk it being too bureaucratic. I believe that these issues deserve to be dealt with in committee, but the SF is prepared to vote in favour of the proposal immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123121059	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123121107	When we Danes are on vacation abroad and get hurt • it can e.g. be on a ski holiday where we fall on the piste and maybe sprain the leg we just show our blue health insurance card or the yellow, or maybe we have an insurance cover that covers it if we get hurt, and immediately we get good treatment. Yes, in some cases we may get an overtreatment, because you see many times in connection with, for example, skiing that the leg quickly gets laid in plaster; it may well be that it was not broken, but it gives a good payment to the one who has now done so. I can tell you that I have a daughter I have many children, but also a daughter who last year was on vacation in Cuba. She dived and saw an amazingly handsome fish, a lionfish. You know as a diver you shouldn't touch anything you shouldn't touch, but she did, and it was really poisonous. But of course it was really good that she had taken out an insurance policy, because she quickly went to the hospital and was treated amazingly well, and that is how it should be. In fact, we think it is quite reasonable that foreigners should not have to pay for our acute and continued hospital treatment when we as Danes move abroad. That is why it is quite reasonable that we in this country should now demand payment for emergency and continued hospital care for certain people without residence in Denmark. The bill implements the 2018 Finance Law Agreement between the Government and Dansk Folkeparti on better opportunities to charge for emergency hospital care for people without residence in Denmark. And with the bill, we ensure that hospital costs are applied to patients living in Denmark. This means that, in future, the regions will have to collect payments from persons who are temporarily resident in Denmark without residence if it is not considered reasonable to refer the person to treatment in the country of origin. No acutely ill or injured patients shall be refused treatment in the public health service on the basis of payment claims. They should not, but the clear starting point must be that treatment should only be granted on an exceptional basis free of charge. Just as we Danes have travel insurance or health insurance when travelling abroad, many tourists have the same starting point. In this way we place tourists in Denmark with Danes as tourists abroad. It is quite reasonable that insurance companies and the health insurance countries concerned should pay for the treatment that their citizens receive in this country. It is important to make it clear, as has also been said earlier, that the draft law does not alter the right of unpaid emergency hospital treatment enjoyed by the citizens of the Kingdom community today. Conservatives can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123121344	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123121353	Thank you. Thank you for your comments on the bill. The bill we are discussing today implements the 2018 Finance Act agreement, which the government entered into together with the Danish People's Party. In accordance with that agreement, emergency hospital care is to be paid in future for certain persons without residence in Denmark, mainly third-country nationals. This also means that in future the tourist, who still has health insurance, will have to pay, and we think that is quite reasonable. Many Danes have also experienced that when travelling abroad they must have money out of their pockets if they become ill and they need treatment. Many people have also questioned how it could be that we at home have felt so far that emergency hospital treatment was free for everyone, so that as citizens of society we paid for it, well to notice. It is unreasonable and it costs taxpayers dearly, and it was also the reason for the financial agreement we concluded with the Danish People's Party and the bill that we are debating today. The calculations also show that it runs up to several hundred million kroner annually, well to mark the money that could have gone to Danish patients and for better treatment. It is not an expense that we think should be borne by Danish society, and where it has long been possible for the regions to collect reimbursement of treatment costs from other EU countries, that is, if the citizens came from EU countries, there has been no clear legal basis here for citizens from third countries. It must also be said that some regions have not been sufficiently aware of the fact that in many cases it has been both their task, but it has also been possible to recover the money from the countries of origin of EU patients. Other regions have been able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by EU rules to withdraw money from the countries of origin of foreign patients and from the insurance schemes covering them. That is why we must also say that there is room for improvement in relation to the handling and implementation of the rules that we have, and also the new rules that the legislative proposal proposes to introduce. There is a great difference between the costs of hospital treatment which the regions can cover today, and that is one of the things the bill harmonises and ensures a proper legal basis for. Today, it is possible to claim reimbursement for hospital treatment for EU citizens, while, as I said, emergency hospital treatment is not possible for people from third countries, and that is what the draft law now provides a clear legal basis for, so that in future the regions can also levy treatment for emergency hospital treatment for people who do not live in this country. I think that, as I said, is fair, and it is also fair that we should also look at when there is also an insurance scheme behind the citizen coming to Denmark which is actually due to pay. The clear starting point must therefore be that payment is being made for both emergency and continued hospital treatment of people without residence in Denmark and that treatment is only exceptionally granted free of charge. However, as several of the rapporteurs have also pointed out, we have also taken into account in the drafting of the draft law that there are a number of cases in which there are still cases in which free emergency treatment should continue to be granted, even though, of course, the government is aware that there are people who, for various reasons, will not be able to be paid. This applies to EU citizens who are entitled to treatment in Denmark under the same conditions as resident Danes, for they cannot be charged, but the bill can then be sent to the EU country concerned, and that is one of the things the regions will need to be better at in future. Nor will it be possible to charge for children under the age of 18 or for pregnant women in need of emergency birth care, nor, for the sake of the Kingdom community, will the bill change the access to unpaid emergency hospital care currently available to people from the Faroe Islands and Greenland. In some of the consultations a question has been raised as to whether the homeless from Greenland and the Faroe Islands would fall into a grey area, and that is why we have made adjustments, because it must of course also continue to apply to our Faroese and Greenlandic homeless in Denmark, that they are covered by the unpaid, acute hospital treatment that we have in Denmark. The proposal does not affect the ability of the regions to provide hospital treatment free of charge when it is considered reasonable in the circumstances. It may be persons whom it would not be reasonable to charge, persons who would not necessarily be able to pay, or persons who do not have the option or, for example, persons who do not have the option. It is not possible to say anything on its own, for example. if you are brought in a state in which you have no means of giving informed consent. It is important to have this broad starting point in the draft law, although the draft law in principle changes the fact that in future we will not just have to give free treatment in Denmark. Therefore, there will also be no acutely ill or injured patients who will be denied treatment in the Danish public health service on the basis of payment claims, and this has been significant. Thus, the bill does not remove the actual access to emergency hospital care for temporary residents in Denmark, but, as I started by saying, recognising that tourists as a starting point have or maybe should have travel insurance and that, in addition, the vast majority of citizens are publicly insured, we find from the government that this was also the agreement we made with the Danish People's Party in the Finance Act last year that it is reasonable for the country concerned to treat while the insurance company or the citizen in question pays for the treatment. I am, of course, making myself available for any questions, but I welcome the positive reception that the draft law has met from a wide range of parties in the Parliamentary Assembly, because it is essential in principle that we should also be able to collect payments from, for example, in the future. tourists from the United States or China who come to Denmark and where their health insurance coverage should cover the costs of treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123122011	Thank you to the Minister for Health. I do not see anyone making brief remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Elderly and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123122032	As I have said, the resolution has emerged from a citizens' proposal. The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123122107	Thank you. It is, as the President says, a citizen's proposal. It is a citizen's proposal that the Folketing should instruct the government to put forward a bill introducing a gender-neutral minimum age of 18 years for circumcision, which is not necessary for health reasons, as well as for boys and girls alike. We have previously discussed the government's position to limit the possibilities for non-medically justified genital mutilation of boys, among others. I would therefore like to start by stating that the government's position is unchanged from the debate we had on F 25. The government does not support a ban on male circumcision, nor do we support a ban on female circumcision, which is why we cannot support the resolution either. The proposal also envisages legalising female circumcision at the age of 18. In my view, this is absolutely reprehensible and something the government strongly rejects. Circumcision of women is covered by the penal code, and we want it to continue to be so. Circumcision of girls, especially the very violent circumcisions that take place, but also some of the less intrusive, can have very serious health consequences. The immediate consequences include pain shock and psychological shock due to the nature of the procedure, bleeding, pain in urination, infections, blood poisoning and tetanus, and the late followers are among others. pain in menstruation, accumulation of menstrual blood in vagina and uterus by infibulation, abdominal pain, chronic abdominal inflammation that can cause sterility, debilitating urination problems, repeated urinary tract infections, complications associated with pregnancy and childbirth due to inelastic scar tissue, pain in intercourse and other sexual problems, as is also described in the penal code, and the reason why today it is prohibited to circumcise women and girls in Denmark. As I said, we want it to continue to be so. This is one of the things that the citizens' proposal will make possible. Let me now return to boys' circumcision and also repeat some of the things I said in connection with the treatment of F 25. We in the government recognise that the debate on the genital mutilation of boys is complex and that there are many important considerations that we need to weigh up. The government's considerations include both the child's perspective, health considerations, implications for religious communities in Denmark, security, ethical and legal considerations, and also reflections on foreign policy implications as well as security implications, among others. in relation to Denmark's sent-out soldiers. As I have said before, therefore, the discussion is not, in the view of the government, an isolated health policy issue, nor is it a matter that is black and white, but a matter with many facets and concerns. When the government balances the various considerations, the conclusion of the government, as we also said in connection with the F 25 in May, remains that we reject a ban and therefore a minimum age. I am also aware that a large majority of the members of the Ethnic Council 15 in favour, 2 against, and 2 against, do not believe that a ban should be imposed on carrying out ritual genital mutilation of boys in Denmark. I refer here to the statement by the Ethnic Council, which, at the request of the Parliamentary Committee on Health and the Elderly, gave in June on the ritual circumcision of boys. In connection with the question debate F 25 in May, I informed you that the government would like to look at proposals to strengthen patient safety in this area, and I also informed that the Board of Patient Safety on my part, from the Ministry of Health, would be asked to update the Danish Health Authority's note on genital mutilation of boys, which is from 2013, and that they should also include the latest studies on circumcision and assess whether the estimated 1,000-2,000 ritual circumcisions per year remain the assessment today, including assessing any dark figures. During the question debate, I also informed you that the Board of Patient Safety would be asked to update the Danish Health Authority's professional guidance of 2014 on genital mutilation of boys, that on behalf of the government I am in favour of a discussion on the need for specialist reservation of circumcision outside public hospitals to urologists, and thirdly that I am open to discussing a tightening of reporting requirements for circumcisions. In relation to the work on updating the 2013 note and the 2014 professional guidance, the Agency for Patient Safety is working on this work and they are working towards completing the work around the end of the year. In connection with the work, the board has also been in dialogue with a large number of stakeholders and professional companies, including specialists in urology and anaesthesia. In addition to the Board of Patient Safety's professional work, my Ministry of Health and the Elders' Department looks at the need for further regulation of ritual boy circumcision. This applies to considerations of the circle of persons who must be able to carry out circumcisions where the circumcision must be possible. This concerns the issue of pain coverage, increased registration and control. In this context, the Ministry has also been in dialogue with, inter alia: representatives of the Jewish community, representatives of the Muslim community and a representative of the Danish Urological Society. So the work is in full swing, also on the basis of the joint proposal for adoption adopted in connection with F 25. I also believe that it is most appropriate that we wait to draw conclusions on the matters we discussed under F 25 and the need for possible additional regulation until the Patient Safety Agency has completed the work that we jointly agreed to set in motion in connection with the question debate F 25. As agreed, I will inform the Committee and the Danish Parliament when the work is finally completed, and so I will conclude by simply stressing once again that the position of the government today is the same as it was in May when we debated the same subject in this Chamber in connection with the F 25 and we cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123122729	Thank you, but there is just one brief comment for the moment. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123122735	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. It is quite true that we discussed this matter before the summer holidays, and in this context I also asked whether the Minister would take the initiative to update the Patient Safety Agency's note which was made back in 2013. The reason for this was, for example, that the Minister had replied that more than 50 new studies had come into existence since then. And I understand from the Minister that this work is going on, just as it is going on in relation to the guidance. What I would like to ask the Minister is whether the relevant health professional organisations and the relevant clinical companies that are in these areas are part of the work, both with the note and with the guidance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123122822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123122823	I can confirm that the professional companies have both been involved and will be involved. It is my impression that the professional companies, for whom it can be said that this discussion is relevant, know to a large extent both that they can contribute actively but have also been actively involved in dialogue meetings.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123122842	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123122845	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that I have and the Enhedslisten has a different position from that expressed by the government, but I will come back to that later. However, one of the things that I think has been very worrying to see is that of anesthesia in this area. For we can see in the Danish Health Authority's note back from 2013, that one among other things. writes that one of the stunning methods that can be used is sugar water, as well as one refers to the use of local anesthetic cream. At the same time, the Minister has given a reply to the Committee on Health, in which the Minister notes that it is in fact only the method of full anesthesia that has been approved when it comes to the very young children, who are, of course, the most often circumcised. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister can go in and say that the professional guidance that comes will ensure that the stunning methods there are and the requirements for stunning also comply with the rules that exist in relation to what are approved stunning methods for the circumcision of boys.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123122941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123122942	As I said in my opening remarks, I can state that, as part of the updating of professional work, there is also work to assess what sufficient pain coverage is, and that also runs from the discussion we had, both in the context of the consultation but also in the context of the treatment of F 25. I cannot stand here and say what the conclusion will be. As I said, the Board of Patient Safety will expect to finish work around the end of the year or just in the new year, and pain coverage, as I said, will also be a topic that will have been orbited in relation to the work going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123018	I would like to make one more brief remark, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123022	Thank you. Thanks also to the previous questioner for asking some of the more medical questions. I would therefore just like to ask to what extent the Minister himself thinks that children should have an influence on what sort of interventions should be made in relation to the body and which are irreversible when it comes to circumcision. That is, when the young man stands before us at some point and says: you have not taken care of my interests in relation to you having allowed this, do we not also have a responsibility to listen to the young man who says that we should have taken into account that the child should have the opportunity to make decisions about changes of his own body?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123113	Well, as I said in my opening remarks, and as we also discussed very much both in the spring consultation and in the question debate on F 25, we consider by the government that this is a broader issue than only health policy. And that is why we have also weighed up both the rights of the child and a number of other factors which differ from the situation we have in relation to freedom of religion, the situation we have for religious communities in Denmark, the dimensions of foreign and security policy and, of course, the dimensions of health care, and where, as I also explained during the F 25 debate, I can say that when it comes to health authorities in Denmark, it is not the case that they advise against it here on the basis of health professional assessments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123156	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123158	But that doesn't change the fact that it's an irreversible procedure that can't be done over again when the child is grown up and may not even want this procedure to have taken place. And with full respect for the fact that one can have different beliefs and different perceptions of what it means: What is the minister's most important watchman: the right to perform certain rituals in connection with different religions or the fact that the child has the right to his own body?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123233	That is what I said in my introduction, and we discussed it very much in connection with F 25. And I would like to reiterate what I said in my introduction: the government's considerations include both the child's perspective, health considerations, implications for religious communities in Denmark, security, ethical and legal considerations and also reflections on foreign policy implications as well as security implications, among others. in relation to Denmark's sent-out soldiers. That is also what I said in connection with the F 25 in the spring, and it is just to say that for the government there are more dimensions in this matter than only one dimension. I know that was what the SF also discussed in connection with the question debate, namely that for the SF there is only one dimension that is essential. And that is where the government's starting point is that there are more facets in this matter, and that is also what we are laying the basis for the government's overall position on the issue, which is no different today than it was during the discussion of F 25 in May.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123329	Then it is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123334	Thank you. And it is absolutely true that this is the position of the government. As most people know, the Liberal Alliance is freed on this issue, and that means that as members of the party and not the government, we can vote as we please. And I am a little curious as to what the Minister has been thinking. I mean, I understand that there are several dimensions to it and that you think it's more complicated. It is not necessarily very complicated for me personally, but I understand that it is for some. But if you only take the best interests of the child and you say that you have considered the child's right to his own body, that you have weighted it, what are some concrete considerations that you are doing in relation to the child's best interests, if you disregard the other things that I recognise that you attach value to? But if you only take the aspects of the child's right to his or her own body, what are some specific considerations about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123429	But now I think that Mrs Laura Lindahl also took part in the consultation that was and has also followed the debate that has been going on, and that is why I can answer the same thing that I have answered all the way through: the government is not just looking at one point, the government is looking at it together. And I think that if Mrs Laura Lindahl asked the rapporteur of the Left, who wants to speak on behalf of the Left, then Mrs Laura Lindahl will also know that in one of the other governing parties, my own governing party, and in the Conservative People's Party, there are members of the Folketing who attach more importance to various elements than to other elements and on that basis make their personal decision. What is the government's starting point is that our obligations, including as a government in this society, are to balance together. And in the overall balance, the child's perspective, health considerations, consideration of the consequences for religious communities in Denmark, safety, ethical and legal considerations, as well as reflections on the implications it may have in terms of safety. for Denmark's sendees. And that is why it is my answer to Mrs Laura Lindahl, and it will continue to be, because that is the government's starting point, namely that there are many facets in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123538	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123539	Yes, I understand, and I have full respect for that too. But I am still curious about the concrete considerations that have been raised about the child's best interests, the child's right to his own body. It is quite fair that other areas should also be given weight and that the foreign policy, the legal aspect and all sorts of other aspects should also be regarded as important. But I'm just curious what it is, you've been thinking about the child's best interests that aren't alone, I know that, and I understand that. But what exactly has been done about the child's right to his own body?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123614	Well, the government has made a lot of thought about this, both how the child's perspective is expressed, and also that we have health legislation in Denmark today, where we have a 15-year-old limit in relation to informed consent. So it is not, of course, because, in general, we do not have rules in the field of health legislation as to when we believe that the child is speaking on his own behalf and when it is the custody holder who speaks on behalf of the child. In addition to what may be the health profession, the government naturally has a number of considerations on the child's perspective, as well as a number of considerations on the other perspectives. The government's task is to balance it together, and this has also been our starting point in relation to the question debate that took place in May and where the attitude of the government in relation to today's debate is unchanged, namely that we do not see this here as just a health policy area or just a question of the child's perspective. We see it as an area with many facets where we weigh the overall considerations, and on that basis we cannot recommend a ban in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123710	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments for the moment, so I will give the floor to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123123721	Thank you, President. Yes, we shall be debating the citizens' proposal, the motion for a resolution on the introduction of an 18-year minimum age for the genital mutilation of healthy children. This is an issue that has been discussed a great deal on many occasions and over several years, and I have the greatest political and personal understanding of it. I would also like to thank the group which has been behind the citizens' proposal. It is good for our democracy that we should have the discussion with that background as well. The Social Democratic Party took the initiative in the Committee on Health that we should also have a broad picture of the consequences of a proposal like this, when we took the initiative and proposed in the Committee on Health that we should have a very broad consultation with a great many ministers. It backed the Committee on Health and I would like to say that it was a very good consultation, because there were many things that had to come out rather than ensuring a comprehensive illumination of this complex challenge. The Social Democratic Party clearly announced its position in the spring: we cannot support a proposal for an 18-year minimum age for the genital mutilation of healthy children. We are a party that puts us on the side of the weak, and we always have the best interests of the children in mind. How can we ensure that everyone gets a good start and equal opportunities in life? Generally speaking, how do we ensure the best for the children? That is also why, as a Social Democrat, we are opposed to the genital mutilation of minors unless there is a medical justification. Because no matter how we turn it around, it is an intervention against children who have no opportunity to say yes or no. It is important just to clarify the medical justification, for many people are getting a circumcision in Denmark.Those are the boys we are talking about.We are not talking about girls in this context. But when it comes to going international alone in Denmark, if we introduce a minimum rate of 18 years, it is that it will be difficult, because what consequences will it have, not only for the children, but also for our country? A very likely scenario in relation to the circumcision of boys is that their situation will deteriorate if we legislate in the way proposed here with a minimum age. Today, the law clearly says that there must be a doctor present at circumcision, so that it is done in the right way, in other words the medically sound way and on the basis of the criteria that we have set politically. However, if our society bans the genital mutilation of people under the age of 18, then we risk that circumcision will still take place, but will take place in secret, without a doctor being present, and thus at great risk to the safety of the patient, the safety of the boys. And then there are national considerations. If Denmark imposes a ban on the genital mutilation of persons under the age of 18, we will be the first country in the world to do so, then we will be the country that goes on an international one, and then we will be all alone. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party believe that this is another way forward. We believe that dialogue is a much better tool and the right tool. Therefore, it was also with great pleasure that we took note of the question debate in the spring that a broad majority in the Folketing with the Social Democratic Party called on the government to enter into a dialogue with the religions concerned on how to work together to tighten up the registration and control and regulation of genital mutilation of boys under the age of 18 when the intervention is not medically justified, and the Board for Patient Safety was asked to update the professional guidance on genital mutilation of boys. That is one form of dialogue. We also feel in the Social Democratic Party that it is extremely important that we also raise the issue under the auspices of the United Nations that we should have the discussion on child circumcision here. It must also be said that this resolution has a weakness, and the Minister for Justice has made this clear in an answer to a question about the consequences of introducing this bill on girls' circumcisions. The Minister of Justice has made a detailed answer in which he says that it would be a step backwards for the girls, for women, if this were to be the law in Denmark. However, as I said, the position of the Social Democrats has already been clearly and clearly expressed. We are not in favour of supporting this citizens' proposal, this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124255	Thank you, and there are three inscribed for short remarks. The first is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124301	Thank you. I would like to ask how the Social Democratic Party will adopt an amendment to the proposal, which would mean that the citizens' draft or resolution, as it is now, only concerns an age limit for boys. It seems to me that the whole debate that has preceded this citizens' proposal has been about the genital mutilation of boys, and I think it would be appropriate to have an opportunity to vote on what one thinks about an age limit specifically for boys. That is why we would like to table such an amendment and I would like to hear what the Socialists are going to think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124348	In other words, it is with the reservation that I have not seen such an amendment and seen the wording. However, on the basis of my rapporteur's speech and what is the overall position of the Social Democratic Party, we will also vote against a legislative proposal in which it deals only with boys. In my line of reasoning I have highlighted the boys several times and said: what happens if we make a ban and there are parents who still want their boys circumcised? Well, then we're afraid it's gonna be goatish at the kitchen table and without a doctor present. And that is one of the arguments we have put forward, in other words, by saying: we think it will affect the safety of boys in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124426	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124429	After all, it is possible for the Socialists to vote in favour of an amendment which means that the proposal here deals only with boys. In this way, the whole discussion about whether to allow female circumcision will be out of the picture and then the Social Democrats will still have the opportunity to vote against the overall proposal. However, I am asking because I think that would be a real response to the debate that has actually preceded this bill, which alone has focused on boy circumcision. And I think it is a little too bad if we do not have an opportunity to take a position on that issue in here. In fact, I believe that a great many of the citizens who are following this debate want the Folketing to take a position on it. So it is just like the way I think it, so I think we should make such an amendment. That is why I am asking what the Socialists are going to do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124520	Then I think I understood it more clearly, and I apologize. However, I would like to say that a division of this motion for a resolution will clearly be a qualification based on what was my last argument in relation to the girls, namely that the Minister for Justice has replied to the Folketing as clearly as he has. But I cannot say from the platform today that that would be what we would be doing, because my line of reasoning is thus built very steeply in relation to it. But if it is in relation to the political process here, I would very much like to take part in that discussion in the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124557	The next thing for a brief comment is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124601	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur believes that national considerations take precedence over the right of the child to his own body and the right of the child to choose for himself which religion he will be associated with for the rest of his life. And then I would like to ask the rapporteur if it is an argument against this proposal that Denmark is the first country in the world to do so. As far as I know, Denmark took the lead in securing the rights of homosexuals. Does the rapporteur think it was a mistake?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124636	I find it difficult to answer that question very specifically, because I think it had a great many angles in it, but I will still choose two elements. As far as the best interests of the child are concerned, I have said very clearly in my rapporteur's speech that we are standing on this, and here I have argued that, although a ban was imposed, some parents would certainly allow their children to be circumcised, and they would allow that to be done in the region, as I said, and without the security that is otherwise built into what is the rule of law today. I have built up my rapporteur's speech on the basis of our motives, and it is also that the security perspective matters. Anyone who had been involved in the consultation in the Health Committee would have had an understanding of the uncertainty that can be created in relation to Danes and Danish interests. So this isn't a either-or; this is a boat-and-where it's both the best interests of the child and the safety of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124741	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124743	I share the rapporteur's concern about cutting on kitchen tables rather than medical help, but that is not really what I asked. What I asked concerned the other arguments put forward by the rapporteur, among others. that an age limit of 18 years should not be set for national reasons. There I asked whether the rapporteur felt that national considerations were a priority for the child's right to decide for himself over his own body and the right to choose his own religion. And then I asked about this because the rapporteur says that we should not set an age limit, because then Denmark will be the first country in the world to do so, namely whether the rapporteur thinks that the other times where Denmark has been leading and has gone ahead have been a mistake.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124834	The times when Denmark has taken the lead and been frontrunners when it has been about rights, I have been very proud of it, and it is also because there have been no risks associated with it. Here there is a real risk that it will affect the safety of the boys. In relation to this with the security of the country, I would say: No, the security of the country does not take precedence over the best interests of the child. This is an overall whole, and that is at least what I had done to build up my rapporteur's speech, in other words that it is both that are essential to the social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124910	The next brief remark is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123124914	Thank you. I listened to the rapporteur's warnings as to whether circumcision would take place in secret, and I can easily follow the rapporteur's thinking in relation to it. One might also assume that parents certainly do not have a desire to harm their children, which they are actually at risk of doing if it is the case that there is no longer the possibility of following the general medical guidelines. So could it not really be imagined that an age limit rather than perhaps would encourage parents to think about whether things could be done in a different way? And isn't that really what happened after we ban girl circumcision? We can actually see that the interventions have largely disappeared because they have found out and agreed with themselves that it was unnecessary. An age limit for genital mutilation is not the same as a ban on genital mutilation, it is simply a postponement of the decision until you are old enough to make the decision yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125024	Thank you for the question. I think that what is the very great strength of the very broad text of the adoption that was made in the spring is that we are precisely taking the path of dialogue. It is right for the Social Democrats to do both nationally but, as I also said, internationally. After all, there are no countries around which I know anything other than that there is a ban on female circumcisions, as I have at least just been informed and no country has a ban with an age limit for boys circumcisions. Well, that's the situation. As for the parents' wishes for their children I am not a parent myself, I have no children, but I think that the greatest responsibility that a person can have on his shoulders is to take care of his children I think that whether he is circumcising his child or not, he is doing so on the basis of a desire that he will do the best for his child. However, social democracy is clear on its position: we are opposed to the genital mutilation of minors when it has no medical justification. I've said that very clearly!
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125130	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125132	The last point is of course important, but I just think that if all the countries are sitting and thinking that they will not be the first, then it is quite certain that we will never get this question on the agenda anywhere. Is it really not the case that when we decide to go in a particular direction, we succeed in moving people's attitude along the way? And would that not be what might also help to encourage solutions? In this context, I would like to make it clear that, in the case of the SF, it is also a minimum age for the genital mutilation of boys and that we are certainly also sceptical about the proposal on criminalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125219	Yes. That is a good question, because it gives me the opportunity to make it clear once again that it is, after all, the point of shifting positions that we think we can do by dialogue, that is, we are doing that at national level, and that is what we are trying to put forward. But we have also said from the Socialist side that we also want this dialogue internationally; we would very much like it to be Nordic; we would very much like it in the European Union, and I think it should be the strong speech of the Folketing in this context: that way we go. At least that is what we want from the Socialist side.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125252	I would like to make one more brief remark. Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125256	Thank you. I think it is a bit of a blow in the air when we say that social democracy is very clear and that they are against the genital mutilation of healthy male children, when one single amendment has been tabled to the resolution, which will make it clear that this applies only to boys. You can vote for it, we can adopt it, but you will not. In any case, it is easy to stand here and say from the platform of the Folketing that you are against it. But my question is really about this: when the Muhammad crisis raged, we all stood firm in Denmark that we should stand firm on our fundamental values, our freedom of expression. The whole world was breaking up and people were raging against Denmark, but we knew that it is crucial that we stand firm, even if it could have an impact on our reputation, a national uncertainty. We stood firm. Does the rapporteur not think that we should stand firm here? Does the rapporteur not think that it is a fundamental value in Danish society that we recognise children as independent individuals with the associated freedoms, including the right to their own body?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125402	First of all, I must make an arrest: I do not think it is right for the rapporteur to say that when I replied to Mrs Stine Brix, I said that we would not vote in favour. I said: I have not seen an amendment. And I said: we would like to look at that in the third reading of this resolution. So I would like to reject the idea that conclusions should be drawn in this way, because that is not right and proper in a political debate. In relation to standing firm: Well each and every one argues with his arguments. Social democracy weighs the child's best interests. We stand on the side of the weak, the weak side, and there the child will always be. And we say, and we argue, that if a ban is made in this way, we are really afraid that there are some children, some boys who will have circumcision carried out under conditions and conditions that put their health at great risk. We will not be involved in this. On the other hand, we will contribute to dialogue with the religious communities and all parties towards a better situation than we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125515	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125516	A better situation than today is that we deprive parents of the right to cut their healthy children. Then we can do everything else in the health care • more stunning, better initiatives in all possible ways, more control • but a better condition is that parents are not right. In relation to voting in favour of this, I said: the Social Democrats have said that they will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Perhaps they will vote in favour of the amendment, but with regard to the motion for a resolution banning circumcision or having an age limit of 18 years for circumcision, the Social Democrats have stated very clearly that they will not vote for it. That is why I think it is a blow to the air when you say that you are against circumcision but will not vote in favour of banning it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125558	I have just one thing to say, and that is that the Liberal Alliance does not believe in dialogue between the parties, including the political parties. But that is what we do in the Social Democratic Party. We believe that this is the right way to go. Therefore, the adoption text from spring is very constructive, very well considered, both in terms of the best interests of the child and the security of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125621	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments at the moment. And the next speaker is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123125629	Thank you very much. I do not think anyone is in doubt at least not those who know me about my attitude to circumcision. That is why I would also like to thank the citizens who have signed this proposal to end the genital mutilation of healthy children. The proposal requires the government to put forward a bill introducing a gender-neutral minimum age of 18 years for genital mutilation which is not necessary for health reasons. In the Danish People's Party we fully understand the resistance that is against circumcising children. That is why I would also like to make it clear that we are opposed to cutting healthy children. However, as the proposal has been put forward, it will not only prevent children from being circumcised, but it will also make it legal to circumcise women after the 18th year, which is now illegal. We have been debating circumcision for many years now, and we have been doing so because many of us do not understand why it is necessary to cut the foreskin of little boys. There is nothing wrong with them, and they have been created as they are. The debate has wandered back and forth for a long time, and there are many different attitudes to circumcising boys. During my time as health rapporteur, there have been several cases in which doctors have carried out circumcisions in unhygienic places without authorisation and to the detriment of the child. That is why it has often been up to the rapporteur to discuss what measures were intended to be taken to deal with it. In 2013 we had the Danish Health Authority carry out a safety study, and there the Danish Health Authority considered that there was no need to circumcise, but no health risks could be identified either. We therefore wanted to make a registration of circumcisions, but it was stopped by the Data Protection Agency. At the time, we wanted to see through registered data what risks and possible genes would be. So we took it up again, and it became so in 2016, that there was a duty for doctors to report all circumcisions of boys to the National Patient Register, whether they take place in a clinic or at home. In a Ministry of Health's decree, the doctor's reporting obligations were tightened up, and in addition, doctors who fail to report were fined. However, I do not believe that all doctors report, and that is, of course, something that needs to be tightened up. There are a great many studies in this area that show many different things. In the spring, when there was a question, we had no less than six ministers in the first place and a minister afterwards, that is seven ministers in the whole, in closed consultation in order to reverse all the issues. We did because we knew that we were going to discuss this at some point. And then suddenly it doesn't look as simple as you'd like to make it. How easy it would be if the reality was that we could make a ban, and then everyone would stop cutting their boys. Unfortunately, we do not think that is the case. We can see that many things are being moved from one country to another, including for example. abortion, which is illegal after the 12th week in Denmark, but then you just go to Sweden. We are afraid, in the same way as the previous rapporteur, that we will push some where we harm more children than we do. Therefore, whether an amendment is tabled or not, we cannot support a proposal for a ban on genital mutilation. These were the words of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123130041	Thank you. I do not see anyone for brief remarks, I have looked again. Thank you. The next speaker is the rapporteur on the Left, Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123130054	Today, we are discussing a citizens' proposal on the introduction of a gender-neutral minimum age of 18 years for genital mutilation, which is not necessary for health reasons. Parts of the speech here will be repetitions from the debate on F 25 in May 2018. The citizens' proposal has obtained 50,849 supporters, and this is a good thing, and of course it gives cause for thought when so many citizens think that the proposal is a good idea. I understand that such a proposal seems sympathetic to many people, because we all want to look after our children. I believe that a great many Danes find it incredibly difficult to understand why some parents choose ritual circumcision of boys and why the ritual circumcision that takes place, for example. among Danish Jews, is so important a marker in a religion. It is truly a cultural clash. It seems to me that it is a perfectly natural reaction to distance ourselves from it through the Christian spectacles that a majority of us Danes view throughout the world, because for the vast majority of Danes it is inconceivable that we should let some cut our children without a medical justification. I feel the same way. I'm the mother of three children. These two are boys, and I would never allow anyone to touch my children without a factual medical justification. We in the Left have decided not to support the citizens' proposal, and we have done so after careful consideration in the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left. The citizens' proposal raises questions with a number of nuances and facets. One thing is the circumcision of boys' children, another quite another is the genital mutilation of girls, which the citizens' proposal calls for to legalise with a so-called gender-neutral minimum age of 18 years. The group agrees that female genital mutilation should not be allowed. Circumcision of girls is totally unacceptable. However, there are different approaches to the issue of genital mutilation of boys. Health care, security policy, religious or ethical arguments speak to each of us, but with varying degrees of gravity, and when we in the Left have concluded as we have, there are several reasons, and I would like to explain a few of them here. An age limit of 18 for boys will mean that believing Jews and Muslims will only be legally circumcised when they are 18 years old. According to medical science, later circumcision means complications, and in other words, an age limit may lead to more complications for men who are circumcised than they would otherwise have if they were circumcised as children. And if you lean on the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority, the message from this is that you neither advise nor advise against ritual circumcision of boys. When we dealt with F 25 in the spring, five ministers were in consultation on the genital mutilation of boys and the consequences of a possible ban. It was instructive and gave us a solid common starting point for further discussions. We in the Left have a concern that a ban will push a development in which Jewish communities are increasingly leaving Europe. To ban a Jewish tradition which has been practiced for thousands of years can easily be interpreted as a signal that members of that religion are undesirable. We do not want that in the Left. At the same time, we do not really know whether a ban will be effective. It is easy to imagine that parents who want their boy children circumcised instead would have the circumcision carried out in hiding or abroad where other rules apply. In Denmark there must be a doctor present during the circumcision, and it is important for us in the Left to follow the recommendations that have been withdrawn from the Danish Health Service and that the child, for example, should be taken into account. is the pain covered. As long as the ritual circumcision of boys is not prohibited, there is also the possibility of raising any complaints or damages, and that is a security for the individual. In the Left we see no reason why in Denmark we should take the lead as the first country in the world with a ban. We have a concern that a ban on boy circumcision could lead to a risk and that such a one could be misused to draw a wrong picture of Denmark and have consequences for Denmark's international reputation and for Danes living abroad. We don't want to risk that. That is why a united parliamentary group, in line with the government, has decided that the Left does not support a ban. Having said that, we must, of course, ensure that circumcision takes place in a safe and proper manner, and the joint proposal for adoption in connection with the F 25 of May 2018 has given rise to a number of initiatives. At the moment, the Patient Safety Agency is working on updating the professional guidance and the goal is to complete the update around the turn of the year. As soon as the new professional guidance is in place, you can continue to work with e.g. pain cover, recording and control problems, and an increased information effort may be considered. We are in the Left open to leave, for example. specially trained to handle the circumcision and look at how to ensure better registration. The Ethical Council has presented an opinion on the subject, the opinion does not support a ban on ritual boy circumcision, and we in the Left have taken stock of the opinion and are in line with a majority of members of the Ethical Council. The Left cannot support the citizen's proposal as tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123130548	Thank you. Three comments have been drawn up for short periods. The first is Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123130555	I am sorry, but I simply have to ask Mrs Jane Heitmann a question, because she tells us that she has three children and that she will never allow anyone to cut them, but she wants to allow others' children to be cut. I just need to see how this works.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123130612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123130613	Let me make it clear straight away that we in the Left do not support the genital mutilation of healthy boys without a medical justification, but we do not support a ban either. And let me speak for myself, as Mrs May-Britt Kattrup asks. I am liberal here beating a blue heart and I am so liberal that although I could never dream of letting someone cut my children without a medical justification, I can easily accommodate that there are religions, for example. the Jewish or Muslim, where circumcising their boys' children is an important identity marker. As a Liberal, I can easily accommodate that, even though I could never imagine that it would happen in my family.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123130700	The next point for a brief comment is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123130705	Thank you. I really have two questions, and I'll just start with the first one. The rapporteur mentions the professional guides that are being worked on at the moment, and we know that the health professional organisations are very sceptical about any kind of surgery that is not medically justified. And there is quite a lot of reason for that too, so we all know that there are problems associated with surgery. So I was wondering whether the rapporteur of the Left could perhaps reveal what kind of considerations the Left is considering in relation to the need for adjustments that might be contained in the guidance. Is it in relation to where the procedure is to take place, in relation to anesthesia? What does the rapporteur of the Left really think is needed in relation to the guidelines and guidelines that apply today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123130802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123130803	I am, in fact, leaning on the joint proposal for adoption, which the Left voted in favour of during the debate on F 25 in the spring, and it says in the adoption text: "Finally, Parliament asks the Board for Patient Safety to update the professional guide on genital mutilation of boys. ▪ Now it is the case that the Danish Health Authority is the highest health professional authority we have in Denmark. We are listening to them in the Left, and I will, of course, follow them with interest and also closely what they are for updates that are considered necessary. But let me say quite basically that for example. pain coverage is absolutely crucial for us in the Left, just as it is crucial that when ritual circumcision of boys is carried out, one naturally follows the guidance of the Danish Health Authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123130855	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123130857	One might say that asking for an update in itself is also an indication that it is problematic that we are cutting healthy children. But then I'll ask the other question. The rapporteur of the Left, like the Social Democrat rapporteur, mentioned this and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, said that dialogue was the way forward. And that is why I get a little curious about what the government has of initiatives to initiate a dialogue with the religions that think this is important in relation to children, and what opportunities there might be in the faith communities to postpone the ritual to a later stage when the child was able to take a position on his own.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123130947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123130948	Well, I do not actually share the questioner's point of departure that ritual genital mutilation of boys is problematic. We live in Denmark, and if you look at it from e.g. I think it is important that in a country such as Denmark we can also include minority religions which, what should be said, have ritual circumcision of boys as a marker of identity. And I do not think that is a problem at all. So I simply do not share the point of departure of the questioner. However, I would find it deeply, deeply problematic if you did not follow the recommendations of the Danish Health Service, and therefore I think it is quite good in relation to the guidance you have, which is from 2013, that you update it and that you look at whether there are some things you can adjust, just as we on the Left would like it to be specially trained who could do the intervention.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123131056	The last thing I have written for short remarks is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123131100	Now, in fact, I have suddenly become very doubtful about what the Left really means. Because I think that the rapporteur said earlier to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup that the Left actually wants less genital mutilation of boys in Denmark. But now Mrs Jane Heitmann has just said to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen that it is not a problem that there is ritual circumcision. I understand that the Left is not in favour of a ban, so what I am asking now is: what is the attitude towards cutting healthy children? So, you think we should have less of it in Denmark, as we have heard quite clearly from the Danish People's Party and clearly from the Social Democratic Party that you mean? What does the Left think about boy circumcision?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123131144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123131144-2	I would very much like to repeat what I said to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. I said that in the Left we do not support the genital mutilation of healthy boys without medical justification, but we do not support a ban either. Does this mean that it is problematic that we have a Jewish minority in Denmark, for example, who practise genital mutilation of boys as an important identity marker? No, I do not think that this is in itself problematic. But I think it would be problematic, as I said earlier, if you do not follow the guidance of the Danish Health Service.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123131219	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123131221	Okay, so the Left doesn't support the fact that you have circumcision of boys who are healthy, that is, where there is no medical justification. Will we then do something else on the Left to ensure that we have less genital mutilation of boys without medical justification? I understand that a ban is not a good idea. But can you see any other kinds of initiative? For example: I think it would make a difference that the authorities said that we do not support the fact that boys are being circumcised, regardless of whether they legislate or not, or that the authorities pointed out that there are also some concerns about the child that parents should take into account in their deliberations. In other words, is it possible for the Left to take initiatives that reduce religious or culturally conditioned boys' circumcision?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123131317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123131318	Yes, we had the debate in the spring and there was a joint vote, which the Left also voted in favour of, and I would like to take the liberty of quoting briefly the first two paragraphs in relation to initiatives. The Danish Parliament notes that the debate on ritual circumcision of boys is complex and that there are many important considerations to be weighed up. The Folketing invites the government to enter into dialogue with the religions concerned on how to work together to tighten up the registration, control and regulation of genital mutilation of boys under the age of 18 when the intervention is not medically justified. So, yes, we in the Left can well imagine taking the initiatives that I believe the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123131402	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have no further comments to make, and I can see that it is Mrs Stine Brix who is the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, even though I originally have a different name on the list here. But here you go, Mrs Stine Brix, as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123131418	I myself was not aware that I might have been replaced, but it is certainly a good thing that we have found out that it is the undersigned who is the rapporteur. It is in itself commendable that there are more than 50,000 citizens who have engaged in this debate on child genital mutilation, and that is why we are discussing this citizens' proposal today. The proposal provides for a gender-neutral age limit for the genital mutilation of healthy children and for the age limit to be 18 years. The position of the Enhedslisten on boy circumcision is clear: we have a decision from our 2008 annual meeting which clearly states that religious and culturally related surgical interventions are a choice that the individual must make himself. The cutting off of healthy, functional tissue is a procedure that parents do not have to decide on on behalf of their unborn children. We'll have to do it ourselves when we get old enough to do it. On the other hand, Enhedslisten believes that the rules on female genital mutilation should not be relaxed, which would be a consequence of the citizens' proposal as formulated. That is why we are going to table an amendment which clarifies or amends the proposal so that it is only about an age limit for boys who are circumcised for non-medical reasons. We also want to table an amendment in which, instead of concluding on how to implement it, we ask the Criminal Code Council to assess how best to tighten up such a ban on circumcising minors. Finally, we think it is important that the proposal should be followed up by an information campaign aimed at those parents who are in the environments where boy circumcision is either religious or culturally widespread. After all, dialogue with the respective religions is fine, but I think that what really needs to be done if you really want a change of attitude is also to talk to the parents who are actually dealing with these questions on behalf of their children. There is no doubt that this debate on boys' circumcision is sensitive, and it is because two fundamental rights are colliding. On the one hand, there is the child's right to decide for himself about his own body and the need not to expose a child who cannot himself be involved in that decision, to unnecessary pain, to unnecessary risk of complications and complications, there is always a risk of surgery, and to the right to practise one's faith, freedom of religion, on the other hand. And that's relevant in this context, because ritual circumcision is part of both Judaism and Islam. However, when we weigh the two considerations against each other on the one hand, consideration for the child weighs more heavily. Therefore, it is our view that circumcision must wait until the child is old enough for the child to make a decision himself, and that is a position that we share with child organisations Save the Child, Children's Conditions and Children's Council, which, back in 2014, made a joint statement arguing against ritual boy circumcision. I think it should be the case, in a secular society such as the Danish one, that the child's bodily self-determination takes precedence over a thousand-year-old religious dogmas. The key point is that this decision to cut off a piece of tissue, which, as it were, is not wrong and where there is no reason to operate, must be the individual's own. I think that this is a fundamental point of view which is entirely in line with the so-called bioethics convention, a convention in which we state that we should only operate on people who are not in a position to give informed consent themselves if it is in favour of those people, and I also believe that this is the principle underlying the medical association, the Danish Nursing Council, the midwife association and a large number of other health professional organisations, a large number of professional clinical companies, all of which are opposed to male circumcision, without there being any medical justification for doing so. So our position is that we support an age limit, and we are convinced that if we are to change something on this point, there must be firm means for more than just good intentions. I think that our experience of regulating against the right of rebuke is a good example of how important it is to shift attitudes within the population, and several people have already mentioned today the examples of the ban on female and female circumcision, which have also helped to change practices. Therefore, I would like to say that we clearly support the intentions of the proposal for an age limit for male circumcision, but that we will therefore table a few amendments which will clarify it accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123131935	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see that there is any desire for short remarks here. So the next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123131943	Thank you. A ban on the genital mutilation of healthy underage boys is an incredibly emotional subject. There are many different views on this, both in the Folketing in general and also in the Liberal Alliance. That's why we're free in the Liberal Alliance. I would very much like to thank the group which has tabled this proposal. This is a very important matter and we have to say that there are many long religious traditions to circumcise boys, and of course we must respect that. Circumcision is for some an extremely important religious and identity marker. That is why many, including in my parliamentary group, believe that a ban is far too violent. In the Liberal Alliance, the members of parliament are freed. I myself believe that an age limit of 18 years should be adopted. The debate on circumcision is complex and many emotions and arguments are put forward. I clearly believe that the right to self-body and freedom of religion are above all other considerations and arguments, and that therefore there should be an age limit of 18 years for ritual genital mutilation of boys so that they can decide whether or not to circumcise them themselves. A circumcision is a mark of life; it cannot be changed. If you later in life feel sorry for your circumcision for some reason, it cannot be changed. If you choose a different religion later in life, you are still circumcised and physically marked with a different religion than the one you choose. For me, it's not religious freedom. But although there is no doubt for me that an 18-year-old age limit should be introduced for the genital mutilation of boys without any medical reason, I believe that the debate has become a scandal. No ordinary parents wish their children harm, and no doubt that the circumcision happens with love for the child. Despite this or because of this, or how to reverse it, I myself will be voting in favour of this proposal, but just not as it is now, because there is doubt as to whether there is a legalisation of female circumcision, which I do not want under any circumstances. However, if there is a change, or if this is clarified, I will personally vote for an age limit of 18 years for boys circumcision without any medical reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123132230	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur for the alternative, Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123132238	Thank you. I would like to start by recognising and thanking the 50 000 citizens who have made sure that we are in this Chamber today debating B 9. We have previously been standing here debating the difficult topic of circumcision in connection with SF's query debate F 25 in May. Here again we are debating the citizens' proposal for a gender-neutral minimum age of 18 years for genital mutilation, which in practice means a ban on genital mutilation of boys' children, because in Denmark it is already criminal under section 245a of the penal code to circumcise girls and can lead to imprisonment for up to 4 years. I would also like to stress that each member of the Alternative Parliamentary Group has been freed to vote according to his own convictions, and I personally have not yet taken a hundred percent position on that subject. I have also promised to say that it has been one of our most comprehensive and thorough processes in the Alternative Parliamentary Group. We have had several experts visiting; we have had them visiting our group meetings in connection with both these two debates in the Parliamentary Chamber, and we have had representatives both of those who are in favour and of those who are against boy circumcision. The fact that this is difficult is, of course, due to the many dilemmas that we see in relation to the proposal, and I will deal with some of them here. I have also raised the same dilemmas with the question that we debated in May. Firstly, I believe that the debate can be seen as part of a continuous tale, which is about non-Western fellow citizens and Muslims • fellow citizens who have a culture and a religious practice that is very different from ours and which involves many more different collective rituals than I do, for example. was raised and raised with, which is primarily Christmas Eve, baptism, confirmation and wedding. In Denmark, it can be said that we are individual - oriented and that religion is a personal and private matter. But all religions contain rituals, and we cannot ignore the fact that circumcision is part of an important ritual practice, for example. in Judaism and among Muslims. From my point of view, that is, the Protestant tradition, we learn that religion is an individual matter. Luther freed us from the many Catholic rituals. This has made rituals more secondary to us. As has been said, it has made religion a more individual matter and not something that happens to the same extent collectively in communities, so we are not in the same way dependent on the community. That is why I think it can be difficult for us to understand and recognise the rituals and religious practices of these religions. My gaze, my standards and my cultural background mean a great deal when I have to assess the reasonableness of, for example, genital mutilation, so in this speech I try to be very nuanced and understanding. I believe that it is important to try to understand what is different, otherwise it can create unnecessary fear and unnecessary hatred. Having said that, the decision must be made on the basis of a balance of several things. First of all, is it reasonable for the religious rituals of the collective to be put in front of it, that is to say, more important than the rights of the individual, which here relate to the right to his own body? Is it reasonable for religious feelings to be put above the feelings of others? To what extent do parents have their children? How much can we as parents control our children? And do the rights of the adult parents weigh more heavily than the child's own right to his own body? As parents, we have the right to raise our children according to the traditions and beliefs that we live by. This may mean that parents choose to have their boys circumcised, let their babies have holes in their ears, let their children go to sports activities that may be risky and dangerous, for example. motor sport or diving. So where's the limit? How far can we go as parents? Article 14 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Children underlines children's freedoms; children actually enjoy religious freedom. In Denmark we have abolished the right of reproof because culturally we believe it is harmful for children that we beat them, and in bad cases we can have our child removed by the authorities. It is therefore also a question of when something is an attack. How bad should it hurt a child before we think it is unacceptable behavior in a parent, and what about the psychological? When is an assault a mental assault on a child, and does it count as much as a physical assault? Then there is also a balance of our role as a majority in a society against a minority. In this respect, we must remember that children are also minorities. What about the health? Now we are here today with the Minister for Health: Is it okay? to perform an operation on a healthy child, knowing that all surgical procedures lead to a risk? In conclusion, in addition to the fundamental ethical and health dilemmas, I also believe that there are some practical considerations we need to make. Because if we ban child circumcision, I can be nervous about further marginalisation of a disgraced group in Denmark. I can also be concerned that circumcision will take place under secret and unsanitary conditions. We, as a society, cannot be served by that. To conclude, I would like to say that you can hear that I am aware that the considerations and dilemmas are many and that there are very few easy answers. That's why I'm not clear yet. As a mother of two boys, I tend to think the best interests of the child first, but if I am to make an attempt to respect everyone, including the adults who have a different cultural background from me, then perhaps I am tilting into a model that they have in Norway, where circumcision is to take place in a hospital. Those were the words. I look forward to hearing my fellow rapporteurs and the Minister unfolding the nuances, lifting the debate and making myself even wiser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123132843	Thank you to the rapporteur. And it just came to a brief comment. Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123132850	It is just a clear question and it is possible that I have not listened properly. Is it Mrs Pernille Schnoor who has not been clarified, or is it the alternative that has not been clarified?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123132900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123132901	We have left it up to each member of the Folketing to vote and take a position, and that is why I cannot say whether everyone is clear. I am not clear, and what I have said is that the reflections I have made are some of those we have heard in the meetings we have had with some different parties who have both been for and against boy circumcision. So that's what I've been reflecting on in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123132932	The questioner does not wish to speak for her second brief comment, so that is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123132936	It is a question a little further: is it only in the parliamentary group of the Alternative that we take a position on this question, or do we also have a debate in the party about what we think? One can, of course, free one's group, even if one as a party has an official position on a question. It could be a model. I am also actually asking because the alternative often speaks a lot about having an involving party democracy, and I am a little surprised if this is just a discussion going on in the parliamentary group. Because I could imagine that there were many in the alternative who had an opinion on this issue. Then you work to get an official position or to involve the party in the discussion you have about what you think about boys circumcision?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123133021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123133022	We're always working to involve the party. I do not think we are working to get an official position in this way, because that is a really, really difficult question. And I also think it's hard to say that 70%. That is what the members of the alternative want, because then there will still be 30 per cent, which may be completely opposed to it. And then we are not freed as a group if we go out and hear what the majority wants, and then we have to vote for it in the Assembly. So we are engaging in our hinterland, as they call it, but we are free as members of the Folketing to vote what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123133107	There was no other comment either, so I go to Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123133111	Thank you. It is not because I have any questions for the alternative rapporteur. I would just like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very fine and nuanced speech. It is actually uplifting to hear the many reflections that naturally follow in the wake of the talk that we have here in the Chamber today. So I would just like to congratulate the rapporteur on bringing the many fine nuances into play. It's not a black and white debate, so thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123133139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123133141	Thank you. I think it is such an important debate that we should include every nuance. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123133150	Thank you, too, to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line and we have reached the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr President. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123133202	Thank you. Radical Left is against genital mutilation, Radical Left is also against a ban on genital mutilation. In my view, I will be leaning on what we put forward radically when the subject was last discussed in the spring when the F 25 was discussed in the Chamber. The debate on the genital mutilation of boys is a dilemma, and it is complex and difficult. The inviolable right of children to their own body and the argument that they should not interfere with children, unless there is a medical justification for it, Radical Left fully agrees. We'd rather parents didn't let their kids circumcise. It is hard to understand, but is a ban on having boys under the age of 18 circumcised the solution? We do not think it is in the radical parliamentary group, and there are several reasons for that. First of all, it is about the children, and then it is about the effects of a ban. There are many balances to be made when imposing a ban. One of the first is how to enforce the law and how to sanction an infringement. And are we sure it'll be for the good of the kids? Let me give you a concrete example. A couple travel abroad shortly after the baby's birth to have a circumcision, and then they are back in their ordinary daily life in Denmark. But what about all the children's examinations that you go to in your own doctor for the first 4-5 years of the child's life? What should the doctor do if she finds that the child is circumcised and it is not in the file? Or can we risk the parents not even showing up for these children's examinations for fear of being reported? Is that for the child's good? I find that quite frankly difficult to answer. Should doctors and health professionals report infant parents? Going to school? We are concerned about what this will mean for important relations and for children. And what about the penalty if it's reported? Is this supposed to be a fine? If you do something forbidden and the law is violated, surely there must be a consequence, and what should it be? Should the child be removed from the parents? We do not have any answers as to what the sanction should be. Of course, we are also listening to the Danish Health Authority, which does not advise against genital mutilation of boys, just as no other health authority in comparable countries does. No countries in Europe have yet introduced a ban on the genital mutilation of male children. We need to have an overview of the consequences of a law and be able to enforce the law wisely when we introduce it. Otherwise, it'll just be symbol politics. As I have said, in the radical parliamentary group we have turned the arguments to come up with a position. It has been difficult, but everyone agrees that we cannot support a ban on genital mutilation of boys under 18 years of age. In addition, the specific proposal for a citizen is accompanied by a passage which would allow women to be circumcised from the age of 18. This sentence alone would also lead us to vote against the citizens' proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123133437	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any brief comments, so I will continue in the rapporteur's line. And this is Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123133450	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the many citizens who have helped to make this proposal as a citizen's proposal. I am very fond of citizens' proposals, even when citizens' proposals address difficult ethical dilemmas. It is really an expression that the Danes are preoccupied with the debate and concerned that we have to find solutions, even when it is difficult. And this citizen's proposal is difficult because, on the one hand, the SF recognises freedom of religion and the right of parents to raise their children in their own faith. On the other hand, we are also concerned that children have the right to decide for themselves, both in terms of faith and, in particular, in terms of their own body. And in all difficult questions, the child's perspective will always weigh the heavier for SF. This is also the reason why the SF is prepared to legislate on a minimum age for genital mutilation of boys. The young man, who, against his will, has been circumcised as a child, can rightly criticise society for a lack of respect for the right to decide for himself, especially in relation to an irreversible intervention. The citizens' proposal that we are discussing today, however, is also quite far-reaching. So let it be said straight away: the SF will not vote in favour of the proposal as it is described. In the SF, for example, we have no intention of changing legislation in relation to female circumcision, and in the SF we have no intention of criminalising parents who are strong in a certain faith either. However, in the SF we are prepared to table the amendment which is necessary in order to introduce a minimum age for genital mutilation of boys. This means neither disrespect for certain religions nor disrespect for religious freedom. And of course I am impressed when a Jewish woman says that she has previously seen herself as a Dane with a Jewish background, but that the debate about circumcision means that she now sees herself as a Jew living in a country that does not respect her and her beliefs. I respect both faith and people. But in SF we will always choose the child's perspective. And although we also recognise that a number of boys would also choose circumcision as adults themselves, the boy who did not want the intervention is just an important voice. Of course, our considerations also include the medical conditions, on which many doctors and health professionals, for example, also have strong opinions. I basically agree with the health professionals that surgery alone should be used if there are medical reasons for it. On the other hand, parents cannot be thought of as leaning on health guidelines, because if interventions are without risks, what is to be thought of? But there are grounds for concern about medical guidelines. Surgery is always a risky procedure, and so is anesthesia and pain management. But SF's approach to the issue of minimum age for circumcision is and remains the child's best interests, regardless of our respect for parents and their faith. We are not going to vote in favour of the overall proposal, but we are going to table an amendment which allows us to take a position on a minimum age for genital mutilation of boys.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123133845	I would like to make one brief comment. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123133847	Thank you very much. It is simply because the rapporteur mentions the attitude of the health professions, and then I would just like to point out that the Medical Association on 1 December 2016 writes here about the elimination of genital mutilation of boys without medical indication: the process of eliminating genital mutilation of boys without medical indication is complex and should be conducted in dialogue with the population groups for which boy circumcision has a particular religious or cultural significance. The main consideration in the transition towards the elimination of genital mutilation should be the health of the children concerned, including the minimisation of unauthorised interventions. ▪ What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123133926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123133927	Now I do not really think there are any parents who want to do harm to their children, and I am also reasonably sure that if the guidance would point to surgery being risky and that pain treatment of newborn children is risky, then it would impress the parents. So it will really be a question of the chicken or the egg. We have been talking for a very long time and I am listening to the fact that all my colleagues in the Committee on Health agree in such a way that child circumcision is an irreversible intervention, that it requires surgery and that surgery is never good unless there is a medical reason for it. We have to start somewhere, and I think it's a real place to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123134018	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123134019	The reason I am standing up is because I think this is in stark contrast to what the rapporteur says is the approach of health professionals to this. From a social democratic point of view, the medical association's statements here are clear: it is dialogue and not bans that are needed, because bans only make the interventions take place under other conditions, and that is what they call unauthorized interventions at the risk of boys' safety. Does the rapporteur agree with that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123134048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123134049	Well, that is a recital, and it is not a question that we can get an answer to, because we do not actually know that. My starting point is that I do not think there are any parents who want to harm their children, and that is why I also believe that a minimum age for genital mutilation of boys will promote dialogue. And then there are a lot of other health professionals who rightly point out that surgery is never an intolerable procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123134124	Thank you to the rapporteur, I have no further comments to make. The last speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123134130	Thank you. When I had to prepare for this bill this week, it was actually one of the easiest legislative proposals I've ever seen to prepare for. The bill was short, and my rapporteur's speech was just as brief. But in the course of this debate it has developed a little. I can read out the rapporteur's own speech: this citizens' proposal introduces a gender-neutral minimum age of 18 years for genital mutilation, which is not necessary for health reasons. Conservatives reject the proposal because the proposal, with a gender-neutral minimum age, will also legalise the genital mutilation of women over the age of 18, which is currently prohibited by Article 245a of the Penal Code. That was very short, but that is why we cannot vote in favour of this bill. However, it has now developed into an amendment. I think it is a little strange that you can table amendments to a citizens' proposal so that the debate suddenly becomes quite different from what you have prepared for. But apparently that's the case, and I have to deal with that. One can say that, overall, Conservatives support the government's line in this. But I can also say that in the Conservative Parliamentary Group, like many others, we have been released when it comes to the third reading and we have to vote on it here. During the week here, and when I went home yesterday, there were probably some who would ask: what is your own attitude about this? I've been awfully lost. It's something with a gut feeling, it's something with ethics etc. You don't have to ask me directly, because now you get the answer directly: My position is here and now that I am in favour of a minimum age for the circumcision of boys' children. But again, as I have said, the Conservative Group is freed, and that is my position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123134334	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. However, I just need to say that several of the rapporteurs referred to what we are dealing with here and which is a citizens' proposal as a legislative proposal. It is therefore a motion for a resolution, and that is why it is not a third reading either. That will be the procedure for motions for resolutions. However, no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Elderly and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123134423	The debate is open and the first speaker is the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123134451	Thank you. The citizens' proposal we are now discussing is about automatic organ donation from the age of 18. The Patient Association Organ donation - yes please! focuses on a very important agenda: how to get more people to decide on organ donation. In concrete terms, they want the citizens' proposal to introduce presumed consent for organ donation, so that you automatically become an organ donor at the age of 18. They also propose that a change to presumed consent be thoroughly informed in good time before such a change enters into force and that citizens be brought forward half-yearly for registration to the Donor Register until an active position has been taken. The aim of the proposal is, as the proposers suggest, that Denmark will be the country in Europe where most citizens have taken an active position on organ donation. The government agrees, yes, I actually believe that most people in this Chamber agree that the goal is that as many people as possible take an active position on organ donation. I therefore also have great sympathy for the aim of the citizens' proposal. We have a common interest in strengthening the transplant area so that, in all relevant cases, a position is taken on donation and so that we can help as many as possible with a new organ and we can ensure that those who donate organs are thus helping to pass life on to others. And here it is a help to the relatives if the deceased has himself taken a position on the issue of organ donation. I also very much agree with the proposal to strengthen information on organ donation. It can be said that the citizens' proposal itself is also another reason why we are discussing organ donation in Denmark. But the proposal also goes further than that, even beyond what has so far been the line in Denmark in relation to consent to organ donation. Today, in Denmark, we have a so-called informed consent for organ donation, which means that the individual will decide, on an informed basis, whether he or she will be an organ donor. The current line is that it is voluntary to take a position on the issue and that it is a personal and private position that public authorities should not necessarily have an insight into. So you can be a donor in Denmark and stand in the Donor Register, but you can also be a donor in Denmark and have indicated it to your relatives or carry a note in your pocket. There are many different forms. And that is contrary to automatic donation or supposed consent, as it is also called, because the starting point is that if a citizen has not explicitly said no to organ donation, he will be an organ donor. The question of consent to organ donation is a complex issue, in which I can also say from the government that we think we should think carefully, also with regard to the issues of the organ donation register that we have today, where we have actually quite nuanced information, both on which bodies we want to donate, but also on whether we want our relatives to be able to decide beyond what we ourselves have indicated, so as to be able to roll back the decision we have actually given ourselves, in respect of the fact that the relatives in the difficult situation in which they stand as relatives can have a different starting point and which must also be able to be heard. That is why we must also consider whether there can be some nuances that are lost. We must also be aware of what we know is also a focus of attention in some of the countries that have assumed consent, namely the risk that the proposal will not have the beneficial effect, because many are experiencing such pressure on them in relation to the question and therefore end up saying no actively, in other words banning donations because they feel pressured to respond. These are some reflections that we on the part of the government think are important when discussing organ donation, including supposed consent. I therefore think that we should give careful consideration to how we proceed and also carefully consider all the initiatives we take to ensure more bodies in Denmark and whether we should look at whether there is anything that could have an opposite effect to what we really want. This is also what has been discussed in ethical circles, and now we have just discussed a draft law here a little earlier, where we are taking a number of initiatives in relation to precisely strengthening the organ donation area in Denmark, and, from the government's point of view, it is important that we take that discussion on an ongoing basis, including in ethical circles. The question of presumed consent to informed consent is also something that we have discussed in the ethical circles and thus among the parliamentary health rapporteurs, including the government rapporteurs, and the health minister who is currently in office at all times, I myself, and in which we, at these ethical meetings, as recently as in the Ethical Council's opinion of June 2017, have also turned the question of informed consent to presumed consent. In 2017 in June, the Ethical Council gave their opinion, and it was an opinion they made, on the basis that the former Minister for Health and the Elderly and the discussions that had taken place in ethical circles had actively asked the Ethical Council to make a recommendation to the Danish Parliament on the question of presumed consent. A majority of the Ethnic Council, 13 members, recommended that consent to organ donation should continue on the basis of informed consent, and the majority's justification was that informed consent expresses respect for the anatomy, integrity and right of self-determination of the individual, as well as allowing the individual to bear responsibility for his own actions. The majority of the council also found that informed consent can be easily supplemented by information campaigns and other actions that can qualify people's position on donation and thus increase the donation rate. At an ethical meeting in autumn 2017, the parties supported the maintenance of informed consent, and in this context we also discussed a number of initiatives that could so positively support further strengthening the organ donation area in Denmark. The question of supposed consent also becomes very topical when one can see from the lists we have on organ donation in Denmark that there are still people dying while they are waiting for a new body, also in Denmark. Hopefully, then, I hope that the debate on the citizens' proposal itself has led more people to sign up as organ donors, just as I hope that the initiatives we have taken in the last year, at the latest today, across the parties, to strengthen the area of organ donation, will also have an effect. In the last session we have allowed anonymous kidney donation, and we have also taken further steps with the bill that we have discussed today to ensure both that the 15-17-year-olds can take a position and sign up as organ donor, but also that in other ways we can help to support the registration of more than one person, among others. with more information activities and targeted campaigns to get more people to decide on organ donation. Because there is no doubt that the area must be strengthened so that we can get more people to decide on organ donation, and that is also what I see, that is to say, across the parliamentary parties, we have launched a number of initiatives on what we have called the organ donation package, which will help to get more people to take an active position on organ donation and also sign up for the donor register. The Danish Health Authority has also carried out a study, which has also been discussed in ethical circles, to identify where citizens are seeking information about organ donation and how best to reach citizens about the message. The results of this study will also be part of the work of developing new information material and a new communication and information strategy in this area, and in this context we have also discussed specifically that there are a great many older citizens who may, without even knowing it, end up concluding on their own behalf that they are probably too old to be organ donors, although with the technologies and the methods and opportunities we have today, we can actually use organs from older people to a very different extent than we could in the past, and it is of course important that we also ensure that the information material and the campaigns reach all sections of the population in the Danish society to ensure that more people take up positions. It has also been the case that so far we have sent out the donor leaflet along with the health card, and perhaps this has been a physical pamphlet, which has made it too poorly grasped in order to ensure that we also via, for example, the health card. e-Box used the possibilities we have for digital communication. That is why we among the parties also agree that from the new year, attempts are being launched to send out information and call for the donor register via e-Box, so that we can hopefully go further than we have been able to do so so far. We must also reach out to more than those who need a new health card, because then we can use different opportunities for it. It may be when you turn 18, it may be at other times when we still have to communicate, and when it may be an important time to make people aware that it would be good if they also took a position on organ donation. As I have said, we have also agreed on a new information campaign to address the elderly citizens of our society in particular in relation to getting more of them to take a position on becoming an organ donor. Finally, the donor register is modernised, and this means, among other things, that the citizen will receive a thank-you for registration in the future when they register digitally. This is something that has been demanded, because people have experienced that they sent their registration out a little in the blue, and something happened at all, and what did they actually get back from comments. Perhaps we also need to work more closely on, as we have also discussed in the political circle, various initiatives where we can also use social media to give positive attention to whether you are an organ donor and whether you have now remembered to sign up. The Organ Donation Package, which follows up the 2014 Action Plan on Organ Donation, also contains a number of initiatives to strengthen health care efforts and initiatives towards the population. Many of the initiatives are under way, and together with Dansk Folkeparti with the money set aside in the Finance Act last year, we have allocated additional money to the Danish Center for Organ donation in order to strengthen the information and help collect and generate knowledge in the field. Finally, the Centre has also been given several tasks in this regard. I think it has to be said that with the money we have allocated, also for the health pool for high-priority health interventions, which we have agreed with the Danish People's Party, and which Dansk Folkeparti got on the Finance Act last year, we also provide a great deal of muscle to ensure that the Danish Center for Organ Donation can also plan targeted campaigns that can help get more Danes to take a position on organ donation. In addition, it is part of the government's Finance Bill to strengthen the Danish Center for Organ donation with an additional DKK 300,000. in 2019 and 3,9 million; kr. in 2020 and by 5 million. kr. annually in the years following to get more people to sign up as organ donor. That is why, if we are going back to why we are here today, namely the whole debate on the citizens' proposal and the discussion on supposed consent, we can ask ourselves whether that is where we are now. On behalf of the government, I fully recognise the need for more people to report as an organ donor and also the need for us to act in this area, and that is why I think it is important to have the initiatives we have taken over the last few years in order to get more people to join us and strengthen our efforts in this area. But I also think that there are still a number of things we can do, and we must also take stock of the initiatives we have now set in motion in order to assess whether they have the desired effect, including assessing whether the initiatives, for example, have been taken. has taken in Norway, where it has been said from the state that one should not just become an organ donor, but say yes to an organ donation, could be positively considered in Denmark, just as we do not call for a decision to become a blood donor, but that we encourage them to become a blood donor. It is just to say that the government is looking forward to further discussions on the area of organ donation so that we can ensure that more Danes take a position and that we can ensure that more organs will save lives. To conclude, I would like to say that we do not believe that presumed consent or automatic registration in the donor register, as contained in the proposal, and as we have also discussed in the light of the Ethical Council's position on the issue last year, is the step we want to take now, and therefore we cannot support the motion for a resolution on automatic organ donation, as it stands today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123135806	Thank you. One person has asked for a brief comment. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123135811	It's too bad the government can't support this proposal. It is not enough that we all talk about organ donation being important and that we take some small initiatives, because it still means that there are people waiting to have a body. Therefore, I would like to ask the government: if you cannot see yourself in this whole proposal, can we at least agree on what is an important part of the proposal, namely that we need to ask people regularly in order to get more people to take a position?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123135843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123135844	That is what I was trying to say: that is what we have already agreed. In other words, over the last year and a half and also on the basis of the action plan back from 2014 onwards, we have taken a number of initiatives on a regular basis. In the last session we took an initiative to allow anonymous kidney donation in Denmark to ensure that hopefully we could get more kidneys for the benefit of some of the people who lack a kidney. Unfortunately, we also know that people are dying on a waiting list. We have taken joint initiatives to ensure that we constantly encourage people, including via e-Boks, to take a position on organ donation and also to run campaigns on it. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have allocated more money to get more information campaigns and more material and to strengthen the Danish Center for Organ donation. We have also set aside money in the Finance Act to further strengthen that effort. And we have dealt with a legislative proposal only today, which also gives the 15 to 17-year-olds the opportunity to take a position. These are not just small initiatives. These are a number of initiatives that we in the government want to see the results of, because we actually think it is important that we also keep on taking stock of, whether the debate is moving and whether it is moving enough, when we need more people to take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123135957	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123135958	Compared with this proposal, it is small initiatives, which is why I would like to ask the Minister again: will the Minister help us find some times when it makes sense to ask people to take a position on organ donation? It may be when you have to take a driving licence and other situations where you still have to see a doctor, so that you are asked to take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123140025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123140027	Well, I really think that's what we've agreed and which we're going to start by rolling out on an experimental basis, also via e-Boks, so that it's not just a physical pamphlet that you can get either at the doctor or on the citizen service, or that is being sent out when you get new health cards, but that we're specifically communicating with people when we actually think they're in a situation where they can take a position. It can be on the first aid course when you take a driving licence; it can be when you are 18; it can be when you hit retirement age; and it can also be a long series of times sometimes. But we need to find out when we communicate best. So, when is it that one is so receptive to want to do what we can see in studies that a lot of Danes want to do, namely be an organ donor, but also make them actively sign up, so that we really get more people who will be in our register in Denmark in the donor area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123140117	There is one more thing for a brief remark. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123140122	Thank you. One of the priorities of the Ethical Council is that if you choose to register automatically, some citizens may just not get signed up, even if they would actually like to. It is a little the same when we have to take an active position on it. There are a lot of people who want to be organ donors, but they just don't get signed up. A golden middle ground could also be a follow-up to what Mrs Lotte Rod said we decide that people should take a position. There you could choose a time for it. It might be appropriate when you become of age, or maybe it might be, in connection with having NemID. On the same occasion, you could also actively decide whether you want to do this or not, not that you cannot make the decision at a later stage, but that you actively take a position on it. That is what is at the heart of what the Ethical Council, for example, is aware of. That is probably also what we are all aware of here, namely that we want to be sure that people have actually taken an active position, but that presupposes, of course, that it is decided that it should be so. Will the Minister be involved in such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123140238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123140239	In fact, I do not think I understand what the SF rapporteur really wants. If you want to force all people to take a position, that is to say to have a supposed consent, if they have not taken a position, then that is the citizens' proposal. And, as I said, we think that, in recent times, we have launched a number of initiatives which are precisely about people taking a position, but that the consequence of not taking a position will not be that we actively sign them up. It will then be that we will take hold of them again in six months' time or through a new campaign or through some new initiatives to get them to take a position, so that hopefully we can get more Danes to take a position. As I also said at the outset, we think that, where it is important to add a little more nuances to what is immediately contained in the citizens' proposal, it is in relation to the whole question of relatives. If there is a supposed consent and you have thus just been registered because you have not been registered, what status should the relatives have in relation to it? At the same time, should the Donor Register be maintained, as we have today? A lot of Danes have taken an active position that they want to be organ donors, and some of them have also taken a position that they do not want all their organs to be donated. That is why, from the government's point of view, we think that the initiatives we have now taken in recent times should be allowed to be unfolded. We do not in any way deny that we need to take any more initiatives. We will also take more initiatives in Denmark to ensure that more will become organ donors. We are happy to take these discussions with the Danish Parliament's parties. We just do not think that the citizens' proposal has the right balance here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123140409	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123140412	Obviously, I haven't explained myself properly. I'm not actually talking about supposed consent. The Ethical Council's comments are precisely that we are running the risk of what the Minister himself is talking about right now. But I speak in favour of perhaps finding a time in our lives when we naturally have to take a position. It could be when you have to take a driving licence, that is to say, before you get the licence issued, you decide whether or not you want to be organ donors or not you want to be an active choice. It could also be, in connection with receiving NemID, that you actively take a position yes or no? Then we will be responding to what the Ethical Council is also asking us to do, namely to ensure that people have actually taken a position. Could it be a model that the Minister thinks we might be able to continue working on?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123140458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123140459	I think, in fact, that I said at the outset, and I would like to repeat this, that I absolutely believe that we should discuss it. I actually see that we have discussed it in ethical circles and also to launch something on an experimental basis, where we inform people about it. It may be related to their 18th birthday. There are others who say that it may be when they take a driving licence. But that we find some times in people's lives where we like to say: This is a good reason for you to also take a position on organ donation. It's in my universe something other than having a supposed consent. I think that we should discuss these matters further, just as I have an experience that we are already discussing them. I also said that I think we should discuss what they have in Norway, where they are actively saying 'yes'. Here in Denmark we just say: Take a position. It is also a question of whether we want to do what we do when we say that people should become blood donors, rather than having to take a position on blood donation, so going a few steps further in terms of sending out the signal that we actually want more people to sign up for the Donor Register. And yes, we are very happy to take that discussion from the government so that we can get more Danes to take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123140559	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123140610	Thank you, President. We must deal with the citizens' proposal, the resolution here, which deals with automatic organ donation from the age of 18. I would like to thank those who are behind this initiative. This is a good initiative. It is both thorough and factual, and I think that the reason why you have been able to get more than 50,000 signatures on this is because you may have heard stories, you know citizens who have stood and lacked a body to have a good life, to have a safe and secure perspective on the future, and that is why this is a good proposal that hits Denmark with some challenges on this issue. That is why I would like to begin by saying as the Social Democratic Health Rapporteur to anyone who may see, listen to or read our debate here: make your own position clear in relation to organ donation. That is the challenge facing our country: too few people do it. This is an often debated topic here in the Folketing, widely in the population, in the media and in all sorts of other places. The Socialist objective is clear. We need enough organs that can be offered to citizens, patients who need a new body in order to have the perspective of a good future life. This means that people must make themselves available voluntarily and say that I must be a donor at the time when I cannot decide for myself or that they have also signed up as living donors. How do we do this best as a community? Yes, is it the active option, or is it the active opt-out? How do we do it best? I shall reveal that at one and the same time the Social Democratic Party is very impatient on this point and at the same time very thoughtful. What is the situation today? Yes, at the end of the first half of 2018, 429 patients are actively on the waiting list for a new body. 1,045,000 Danes have signed up for the Donor Register, which corresponds to approx. 22% That is far from enough, and the paradox arises between the 22 per cent who have signed up and the 80 or 85% who, when asked widely in the population, say that they want to be an organ donor. We must find solutions to this paradox. Last year, in 2017, there were 374 patients who were transplanted and received at least one organ. Changing ministers and changing Parliamentary and changing Health Committees have discussed how we can make marketing better, because that is what it is all about, understanding the seriousness of this as a citizen. Sign up as a community citizen in this context while you're alive. That is what we are appealing to. Organ donation and the question of this, i.e. how we organize Denmark better in terms of getting enough organs, are therefore by no means a simple matter. This is a matter in which a great many, also difficult ethical dilemmas arise, but we in the Social Democrats are prepared to discuss whether we should move from an active opt-out system to an active opt-out system. But the question is too important for it to be decided in a resolution such as this because there are things we need to consider thoroughly and carefully. There is a need to better clarify the issue of an active opt-out system. This is particularly true in relation to ethical issues. The Ethical Council has stated that we can make use of it, but we must put it at risk, also in order to get it connected with a system based on supposed consent. What are the consequences of this? Will we have more organs or not? That is why, in the Social Democratic Party, we are calling on the government and the entire community to make a thorough effort to clarify both the ethical and the professional issues of an organisation based on supposed consent, so that we can make decisions on a proper and informed basis. We call on the government to do so, and I would like to say that we are actually impatient, because we are moving too slowly towards the clear goal of social democracy, so we should not remain still. I will conclude by saying that this is the reason why we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands here, but I will repeat to every Dane: prepare your position here, report, and let us make sure that we can get a completely different qualified and good and comprehensive offer to the many Danes who are lacking a body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123141157	There is one for a brief remark. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123141200	Social democracy says you're impatient, yet you won't support this proposal. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether we can at least agree to make a model in which we actively ask the Danes in medical situations whether they want to be organ donors or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123141227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123141229	Yes, we can, and I don't think we disagree on that. That is actually what we have been discussing. I think we should ask the Minister for Health to put it on the agenda next time, as proposed by the rapporteur of the Radicals, so that we get straight out how we do this. And then we can also send a signal to the more than 50,000 citizens who are just as impatient as I am as the Social Democrat health rapporteur. And then I think we can try to see whether we cannot have a joint report for this motion for a resolution so that we can send a signal, also as a result of the motion for a resolution, where we can try to collect some of the things that are constructively included in the debate here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123141308	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123141310	I think it would be good if we could agree on that after all. And then I just hope that the Social Democrat rapporteur agrees with me that we can do it fairly quickly as well. When you stand here and say that you are impatient, it is because we have been discussing this for years and years, and yet I have at least a feeling that things are going very slowly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123141337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123141339	It is true that we have been discussing this for years, but we have also been acting on it continuously. So, we got the action plan in 2014, and in this context it is incredibly important to say that the patient organisations were at the table, the professional organisations were at the table, the Danish Health Authority was sitting with, and they tried to make a list of the best initiatives and stepping stones, and we have of course put a lot of them out. But it has just not had the desired effect and therefore the Social Democracy is impatient. That is why we are also saying that this, with an active opt-out system, is not something we reject at all. We just want to look into things more thoroughly, and it doesn't have to take a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123141427	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more inscribed to short remarks right now. So I continue to speak, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123141439	Thank you very much. I would also like to start by thanking those who have signed the resolution, the citizens' proposal, which is about automatic organ donation, precisely because I think it is important for us to have the debate. It turns out that every time we have a debate on organ donation, there are also more who sign up for the register. On 18 April 1964 was the day when Århus Kommunehospital carried out the first kidney transplant, and it was an operation that has made its mark both ethically and medically here in Denmark. It has saved many people, young and old, men as women, and one thing is only important for these operations to be carried out, and that is that there is a body that can help a human being who comes from another human being. The fact that the organ must come from another person is precisely what makes the debate difficult because we come up with ethics and morality, and it can be very different from one person to another. Regularly, we have the debate at home about organ donation, and the reason why we often debate it is, after all, the waiting lists that we have here at home, where more people have time to die before they are offered a body. It is a debate that comes around the feelings of the individual and focuses on our own death, as well as what happens when one of our relatives is dying, and it is not always easy to talk about, because who knows how to react when you are in the situation? I hear that there are rapporteurs who think that one is impatient and then I would say that there are ministers who have been sitting on their hands for the last 11 years, when I have been rapporteur. In 2008, it was Mrs Pia Christmas-Møller, who at that time had left the Conservative People's Party, who put forward a proposal that we should be able to take a stand every time we were in the doctor's office, exactly what Radicale's rapporteur says about, if not we should take it and do it now. It was proposed 10 years ago, and there was a majority with votes from the Danish People's Party and all the red parties I think it was, because it was a VK government that sat at that time in order for it to be possible to do so. So we can actually take up that proposal from 2008 and say that we need to be asked. The problem, as I remember it, was that it was the doctors who resisted or wanted to be paid for it, and then it went into a stalemate, and then nothing happened. But why has no solution been found in the ten years that have passed? There have been several health ministers since then and that is why I am glad that we have done a little this time, but that does mean that we in the Danish People's Party have actually tabled several motions for resolutions to have more bodies. Because we do not believe that you should be an automatic organ donor, but we believe that we must do what we can to ensure that people take a position. That was also why we had a resolution on an objective. Because we could see that there were hospitals that had an objective that meant that they actually received more organ donations because they were more skilled, one might say that they talked to the relatives who were in a situation where they could say yes. That is why we tabled a motion for a resolution on an action plan which is, in fact, the one we are still working on. So this whole thing about getting impatient, I understand, because I've been a lot of times, too. It also means that I have been interested in the subject for many years and looking at what is being done in other countries. We have just had a team of German parliamentarians on the committee with whom I met. They are also currently going to different countries. They have been in Spain, which is the highest in relation to the donation list, i.e. how many they donate. But they were also a little frightened, compared to what I've heard others who have done studies in the sense, in the way in which one doesn't think it's ethically justifiable to take organs from the deceased. I think we do a lot of good things. Next week, next Friday, we will start with a new campaign, which will just get more people to sign up. We need to be much more around social media, we need to be around where the elderly can also be told, as the Minister said, that you can easily be a donor when you get older, and in this way I think we can continue with the success that we have set in motion. Because if you look at what was in 2008, there were 400,000 donors. Today there are over 1 million, and I think that is very good when we look at it out of a population of just over 4 million. Then it may be that there are some who say: No, we are over 5 million. But those under the age of 18 cannot take a position yet, so we take them right away from the calculation. So I actually think it's very good that one in four of us is in the register. I will be afraid that an automatic donation means that you say no, and then it can never change, even if the relatives are at the last minute. You can tell someone who says yes. There you can actually change it yourself, but not if a 'no' vote has been taken, and I would be afraid so. That is why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123141946	There are two brief comments. The first is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123141952	Thank you. I can hear that the rapporteur is not so pleased with the proposal that the register of organs should be automatically registered. But would the rapporteur be able to support a proposal in which we decide that all Danes should take a position, for example by issuing a driving licence or, for example, by issuing a driving licence? as a prerequisite for receiving NemID and then being asked to take a position, because most of us know that one of the reasons why people do not get it done is sloppy. So if we were to be able to set such a time when people are taking a position, the rapporteur would be willing to do so, for then we have at least responded to the concerns of the Ethical Council as to whether people are just not aware that they are automatically registered. But could that be a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142047	I do not think we should force anyone to do anything. Firstly, not everyone gets a driving licence, and secondly, I do not think it can be said that it is because of sloppy that some people do not take a position. Sometimes I think we should turn the debate around and talk about the fact that it may be one of us two who should lose one of our loved ones who should sit and say, while the blood is hot and the heart beats, that they should be donors. We are talking too little about that. We always talk about those on a waiting list for a body, but we never talk about those who actually have to die in order to be able to give a body. We need to get better at that. But yes, I would like you to have the question when you come to the doctor, but it should not be a yes or no, there should also be an opportunity for someone not, because there are many who have difficulty with death. We need to be better time to talk about what can happen, how to get out of here, and how we can say goodbye to our loved ones properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142139	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142143	What a dramatic answer. I can live with the fact that there is a check option that is not known, but it is after all a fact that 90 per cent. The Danes believe that organ donation is important and that it is important that we take a position on it, but it is only about 22 per cent. of the Danes over 18 years of age who have actually taken a position. And that is an expression of the fact that some people just don't get it done. I guess that gives a good reason to say that if there was a natural time and it may well be that it isn't the driving licence, it may be that it is NemID but that there is a time when we know that people have sat down and considered this question and that they will then take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142227	There are many reasons why people do not take a position, and that is because they do not know what to say. I would be more afraid that they will say no, because they are in doubt, and then we will never get that help. When we talk about studies, I have a study here from a lecturer in medical anthropology who has just been made and who shows that 90%. of the Danes are positive, but at 60%. is against presumed consent. It is just to put it in place because we believe that a vote in the Ekstrabladet, which shows that more people want it, is the truth. At least here we have a study on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142304	The next brief remark is Mrs Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142307	I very much agree with the point of the Danish People's Party that there are more who must take an active position, so it is not the case that when you stand as parents of someone who is dead, you have to take a position at the moment when you have been told that there is nothing more to do. And that is the whole point of the citizens' proposal that is here, that is to say that there are many more who have to take an active position and that is why you have to keep asking people. And the fact that we have automatic registration does not change the fact that we still have to take an active position. On the contrary, it is part of the model that you have to take a more active position than you do today. Does the Danish People's Party not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142355	No, I do not agree that this proposal means taking an active position. This means that when you're not doing anything, you're automatically a donor. There's no respect for whoever comes into the hospital and when you take the organs. There must be a respect that must be a gratitude when someone actually gives life to others. We must continue to have that respect, and I am afraid that we will miss it if we just think that everyone is possible donors. And that would be socially wrong. It will be some of those who do not take a position that you just decide is donors because they have not taken a position themselves because they may feel socially ill or some other thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142435	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the questioner of his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142444	But it's wrong. So, what lies in the model is that you are registered in the register as a starting point, but you have to take an active position in exactly the same way as you have to take a position today. And if you have not taken a position, it is in the same way as today, that is, that you also ask the relatives. So it should help the Danish People's Party to be able to participate in this proposal, because it will strengthen that more people take an active position, so that we get fewer of the situations where the relatives are in that situation and have to take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142526	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142527	But I am not with the rapporteur in this. I believe that we must continue to do the work we are doing today. We should not force people and tell them to take a stand. There are also some people who want to live in ignorance of what happens to them the day they die and that it is left to the relatives. And I know we can tick that too, but there are some who do not want to go in and take a stand on it. There are some who find it very difficult to start thinking about their own death or their loved ones. And that's the way it's gonna be. We're not all the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142601	I think I can say thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more sign-in right now. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Left, Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123142619	Thank you, President. As you know, the motion for a resolution has been tabled on the basis of a citizens' proposal which has 57,653 supporters. And it's nice, and I'd like to dwell on that a little bit. For whether or not the resolution is adopted, attention to organ donation is important. Attention and focus on organ donation make more people sign up as organ donors. The motion for a resolution here in itself helps to create a focus, and that is what is needed. That is why I am pleased that today, in the Parliamentary Chamber, we are also focusing on organ donation and the obvious challenges of securing more organ donors. The fact is that many sick Danes are waiting for a new body, and the harsh reality is that some lose their lives before there is a suitable donor, and that makes me immensely sad. We must and must ensure that more Danes take a position, and there are many ways to go. Presumed consent, which the proposal here is about, is a way to go. Back in 2016, when Denmark's Minister for Health was called Sophie Løhde, we discussed among others. The Ethnic Council decided to work on the subject. The opinion of the Council spoke clearly: the Council cannot recommend supposed consent, but recommends that more initiatives be taken to secure more bodies. We have discussed the possibilities in the Left Group, and I must be honest and say that just as when we discuss other ethical issues, the opinions are many, and each of us stresses the arguments for and against with variance and with varying degrees of gravity. We in the Left have chosen to follow the recommendation of the Ethical Council, but we also recognise that if the new initiatives do not give way, we are willing to discuss the issue again. Recently, I re-read the report for the 2017 Organ Donation Database, and the figures in it are depressing. Allow me to quote briefly: In 2017, intensive care units reported 2,359 deaths. 26 percent of this was patients who had sustained extensive brain damage. Those patients formed the donor detection group, where appropriate, that staff are aware of the possibility of organ donation. However, only 8 percent of all the deceased were potential donors as their condition was immediately compatible with the conditions for brain death. Of the total of 2,359 patients who died, 4 percent became organ donors. That's the thing in a nutshell, when only 4%. ends up donating an organ to a fellow human being, a new organ that can mean the difference between life and death. We need organ donors, and later the report says that 34 per cent. cases are due to non-donation consent-related reasons. That must and must be done better, Denmark! We in the Left also have the view that we must have many more to take a position and preferably become organ donors. Fortunately, there is broad political agreement to strengthen efforts for more people to take a position. Let me just mention a few. We have just first examined Bill L 110, which gives the 15-17-year-olds the opportunity to decide on organ donation, and much happens under the auspices of the Health Act when you reach the age of 15, so it makes sense for us to have young people with us. But we also need to include adults, and there are calls for our 18-year-olds via e-Boks to take a position and a separate information campaign targeted at our elderly. With the Finance Act, the government and the Danish People's Party have given priority to funding for the Danish Center for Organ donation for both information campaign, recruitment of a new employee and a strengthened awareness-raising effort. And it is strong signals to send out when priority is given to interventions through the Finance Act. These are strong signals that we in the Left also have a strong desire to strengthen efforts to ensure that more people decide on organ donation, actively sign up because no one should die because they cannot provide vital organs. The Left cannot immediately support the motion for a resolution, but supports in every way the intentions behind it. Several have to take a position, and we would like many more donors to sign up for organ donation. And, as I said earlier, we do not consider the debate to be concluded. We follow the area of organ donation closely, and if we do not manage to ensure more lives with organ donation, then we are willing to discuss the subject again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123143054	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no brief comments on this screen. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123143106	Thank you. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the proposers and the many thousands who have signed the citizens' proposal. I also believe, as several other colleagues have said, that the debate itself is important for more people to take a position on organ donation. It is certainly one thing that we can all agree entirely on is important and rewarding. In the Enhedslisten, we cannot support the resolution as it stands. We fully recognise the problem that the proposers want to solve. We have a problem with lack of organs and we have a problem with the fact that too many, probably even in spite of good intentions, do not decide whether they themselves will be organ donors. But we do not believe that it is the right solution to be an automatic organ donor. Then why not? First of all, because we believe that this is a decision that should be taken by the individual citizen himself, following the debate we had before, about the circumcision of young children, one might say. It's about the right to dispose of its own body. Donating your organs is a decision that you can take for yourself, and it is not something that we can just assume you want to. I also think that there is an important consideration to be given to the relatives of a potential organ donor. When, as a relative, you have knowledge that they are in the Donor Register because they themselves have actively made a decision, I think it is actually easier to reconcile themselves with the process that people have to go through to become dons; to reconcile themselves with the decision that has been made. If, instead of having an active registration, we turn to a passive registration, you can say, you do not know as a relative, whether the people in the Donor Register have made that decision themselves or whether they have not. The consequence will be that there will be some who become organ donors without they actually wanted it because they did not get signed up. Today, as a society, we have a constant commitment, one can say an incentive, if one is to use such an economic language, to constantly encourage the public to take a stand on campaigns, to set aside funds for the issue, to put up again and again with the ethical discussions that too many people require to take a position on the issue. And I would be concerned that if this had been resolved by saying that everyone is, as a starting point, organ donors, then there is a weakening of the incentive to constantly push the ethical debate for which there must be room and which I think is necessary in order for it to remain a theme of good support. I am also concerned about the fact, as several others have said, that if we rush too hard and in this way assume that you want to be an organ donor, we risk creating a more negative attitude towards organ donation as such. At least that is what I myself hear from some of those with whom I speak, who are against supposed consent, even if, for example, they are. have signed up as organ donors. I recognise the problems that lie behind the proposal, but what are we going to do? First of all, as several others have mentioned, we must take all the initiatives that we can take to ensure that people actually take an active position, and that is one of the things we are discussing as part of the fact that we now have an action plan for organ donation and as part of the fact that we have regular meetings where we discuss what could be done. Several have also mentioned the two initiatives that were in legislative proposals earlier today. I also think it is a good idea to work on constantly asking at well-chosen times whether people will take a position, and there is also an attempt to do so where you work on this with pop-up announcements, and you are also working on sending an e-Boks to the citizens. We must repeat the call and support with help, reflection, input into the discussions we should have prior to taking a position. I think that is the way forward. I agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that if people are constantly asked to take a position, it is also important to respect the right to have doubts about the issue, the right not to know. That is also an important point to me in the Ethical Council's statement, in other words that some people need it. Therefore, for me it can never be a question that you can only answer yes or no for example. to be able to get a driver's license or to get a NemID. You also have a right not to know and to be in doubt. Finally, I would like to say that this is a difficult question and I must also say that there are clearly also members of the Enhedslisten.I am not familiar with anyone in the parliamentary group who thinks otherwise than I do, and that is enough because it is not a question you can just look up in a programme of principles. But here I have at least expressed the position that we have as a party officially and that we have always had, as I know. So we cannot support the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123143639	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123143647	Thank you. Organs can save lives, and the more donors, the more lives can be saved. Therefore, many thanks to the group which has raised the debate on an extremely important issue. For many years in Denmark we have been after the countries around us in relation to organ donation from the deceased. We are still a little behind, but there has actually been a rather dramatic development. The number in the Donor Register has increased from about 400,000 people in 2008 to over one million people today. This also means that we are approaching our neighbouring countries in relation to actual donations. The average donor is relatively old, so it takes some time before increases in the Donor Register also get into the figures for actual donations. The Swedes have about 1.5 million in their donor register, which means that we in Denmark have overtaken the Swedes per year. citizen. This is a really positive development. Lack of donors costs human lives, and an incredibly large group of Danes still want to be organ donors. We're just not gonna get it done. We're not gonna sign up. That is why it is important to discuss what can be done about it. And we actually know that supposed consent works. You can do that, for example. In Spain, which has achieved significant improvements for people who need a body. However, in the Liberal Alliance, we believe that the large number of people who have emotions in relation to organ donation must be taken into account. It is not reasonable to assume that a deceased person would have had it okay. with the fact that you cut the person up and take out the organs. If you don't have strong feelings about what's going to happen to your body, it can be hard to understand these feelings. However, we do not believe that the legislation can simply ignore them. That is why we are not in favour of supposed consent. We believe that a great deal needs to be done to continue the very good development of the number of donors. We believe that this can be done without using such a far-reaching means as a supposed consent. You can try to make it easy for the citizen to register. In fact, the process itself is already incredibly easy, so it is about reminding people that it is important to take a position on it and about making it even easier. That is why we are also very pleased that the government is launching a major information campaign and that we have put in place to contact citizens to ask them to take a position as we have heard here, possibly via e-Boks, as the Minister mentioned. In fact, in the Liberal Alliance, we could also see that NemID, as others have also mentioned here today, was perhaps used so that all citizens, next time they need to use their NemID, are asked whether they want to be organ donors. But it is important for us that there is both a 'yes', a 'no' and a 'no' option, because it must be perfectly legitimate not to take a position. No one gets worse from saying no to organ donor or saying that no position has been taken. It is important for us that that opportunity be there. In this way, we hope and believe that many more donors can be obtained, because, as we know, there are in fact many who want to be a donor but who do not have a position on it and who do not register. This could then be one way to do it without assuming that someone is an automatic organ donor. So we are very much opposed to supposed consent, but certainly want us to make a lot of information and actively ask citizens. For us, it is only important that we should be able to refrain from taking a position. It must not be just a yes or a no. There must also be an opportunity to say that no position has been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123144116	Thank you. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123144119	I find it sad that the Liberal Alliance does not want to be on this model, but at least I am pleased that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is so clear that we would like to have more than we have today and that the Liberal Alliance would like to help us find some points where all people are asked so that more people are actively taking a stand. That is why I would just like to ask this question: do we agree that the Liberal Alliance should not be satisfied with it if the same thing happens, as Liselott Blixt said so educationally: we have been discussing it for ten years and no solution has yet been found.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123144201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123144203	I can stand here and tell you what the Liberal Alliance wants. I cannot say what we agree on and what the end will be. It must, of course, depend on further progress and on further negotiations and discussions. I can't say that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123144218	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123144219	But it is the ambition of the Liberal Alliance that there should be
ParlaMint-DK_20181123144232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123144233	The Liberal Alliance wants us to be able to ask the citizens, and we have heard the Minister say that too. One way could be via e-Boks. We're talking about NemID. There may be other ways to do that. We have to see what that will bring when we talk about things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123144252	Thank you. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123144258	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking you for a well-prepared citizen's proposal which, overall, we are positive about in the Alternative Group, on condition that the things that are stated, namely that a great deal is done in terms of informing and that it will be easy to opt out. Having said that, this is a personal dilemma for me, just as it is apparently for many other Danes, since only 22 per cent. has signed up, although 90%. In fact, it is in favour. I would like to read a few excerpts from a comment I wrote 10 years ago when my mother died and I myself had to take a position on organ donation: • A few months ago I was a censor at the School of Business in Copenhagen. The students had to write a discussion paper. A large proportion of them had, of course, written about organ donation. They all thought, without exception, that it was quite incomprehensible that so few had agreed to donate their organs. And they couldn't find any arguments that spoke against. They are also young; death is not just around the corner. And there are probably no rational arguments against organ donation either. That's why all the doctors talk about it. Doctors are rational. It's their job... I once saw Peter Lund Madsen talk about the subject in Morning-TV. He was upset that so many people didn't understand what brain death was. So he scientifically explained how the brain slowly decomposes from the moment it dies. The problem of organ donation is not all the rational arguments that advocate saving a 16-year-old boy who has just been run down. Or a 20-year-old lung patient who needs a new lung. The problem is that when you face a person who is even your mother, there is a lot of symbolic value and a lot of emotions associated with her. ▪ Continue: • My mother had a blood clot in her brain. At first they thought they had it dissolved with medication. She was awake and she talked to me like if nothing had happened. She remembered everything. The party she was at two days ago. The flowers she had planted in the summer house. That's how she lay for two days. Sleep and talk a little sometimes. We were happy and confident. She's gonna be okay. But we were hit by the harsh reality when we saw the scan of her brain. 80% Of the right brain half was gone... the medicine hadn't worked. Yet we should be confident, the doctors told us not to give up. It could go either way. We just had to wait. During that wait, we were called to the doctors, who asked us to decide on my mother's organs. They stressed that they didn't know if my mother would die but for safety. My father was sure in his case she had to donate them. I was insecure and I didn't know enough, but... we said yes. The problem with organ donation is that we all want to die a worthy death. And that we want it for our loved ones, too. And that's what I'm still wondering if my mother did. As soon as we said yes, the peace was over. They began to examine my mother and question us: Had she been ill, how much she weighed, etc. Information needed to assess the usefulness of her organs. But there was no peace. No tranquillity to get a worthy farewell to my mother. As soon as they suspected that her brain was dying, she was run over to intensive care, ready for surgery and put on a life support... two independent doctors judged her to be brain dead. A few hours later, she was taken to surgery. It lasted approx. The elimination half-life is approximately 6 Then she died. They pulled the plug to the ventilator. The problem with organ donation is that people don't really want to know how it goes. They won't know that you can't be heart-death when they operate, because then the organs don't work anymore. All I'm gonna say about this is that there's more in the world than your brain can understand. Everything's not rational. Yes, of course you have to help others if you can, but shouldn't you also help your mother? Should we not make sure that she, who has done everything for one her whole life, has a calm and dignified death? The question is up to the individual and the question is whether it is more dignified to die in peace than to die on the operating table after a six-hour operation. I don't know, don't ask me, and I'm still in doubt. But if I have to say something today, I would urge you to take a position so that you do not find yourself in the situation that my father and I were in, where we did not actually know whether we were in agreement. I understand if people cannot take a position on it, but I would urge you to take a position. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123144732	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123144739	Thank you. Every year, Danes die while on a waiting list. Every year hundreds of Danes live with serious illness while waiting. And every year there are thousands of people who live with their mother or their father or their son or their sister or their brother being seriously ill while they wait, and with all the pressure and stress that there is, with the uncertainty that we will have a body. These people have formed a patient association, and they have now made a citizen's proposal. And some of them are here today too. It's Esther's father. Esther's five years old, and she's been rescued by a new body. It's Kristine. Kristine has come here directly from dialysis. And this is Simon's mother...
ParlaMint-DK_20181123144905	It is not appropriate to stand and address the audience directly. We don't usually do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123144912	But that is, for example, the case. also some such as Simon's mother Simon, who is no longer here, and where the mother has tried to face the situation where you get both messages at once, namely that nothing more can be done and then the question: can we use the organs? And that helps to raise this debate, because there are many Danes who want to be an organ donor but who have not just signed up for it. I am in favour of this proposal because I think it should be as natural that we want to give as it is to get, because the two things are connected. And I find that there are two things in particular that are derailing this debate a little. One is the argument about state property, which is why I would like to ask the question: if you think this proposal makes you the property of the state, does it also mean that when you say yes to organ donation, you become the property of the state? The second is the whole thing with the word supposed. I think we should practice calling it something else, because the proposal does not suggest that we want to donate; that is to say, it is a change in registration, but it does not change the fact that people have to take a position and that, just as today, it will still appear in the Donor Register whether they have taken a position or not and that the whole purpose of the proposal is that we should have more people actively take a position. There are also people in my party who are not in favour of this; there are also people in the parliamentary group who would rather have a different model. But what matters to me is that we do more than we do today. Because, as some of the other rapporteurs have said, this is something that we are talking about a great deal, and we are all saying that it is important and we have made various proposals over the past many years, but there are still people waiting. We haven't broken the nut. I don't think that a few and twenty percent is good, I think it's too little. And that is why my position and the desire of the Radical Left in this is that we should succeed in something that works, and if we cannot secure a majority for this, we would like to take the lead in being able to secure a majority for what we can agree on, so that we can get many more Danes to say yes to becoming an organ donor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123145221	Thank you. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123145224	Thank you. Let me begin by regretting to the rapporteur that during an earlier debate I had categorized the Radical Left as part of the blue block. That, of course, is not correct. But I would like to ask you something about the citizens' proposal here. For what it says is that there is automatic organ donation for people over 18 years of age unless you actively opt out of being an organ donor. So that you actively acknowledge that the rapporteur does not recognise that this bill is adopted, you must actively, whether you say yes or no, you are a donor here, unless you do something active.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123145315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123145316	Yeah, exactly. What lies in the proposal is that, in the same way as it is today, it is commonplace to want to receive, so it becomes commonplace to want to give. But the proposal does not change the fact that we still have to take an active position. Just as we are asking people to take a position today, we would also like people to take a position in the future, which is why it matters that we are making a massive information campaign, and that is why it is also an important part of this proposal that we keep asking people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123145350	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123145351	I have to say that this is simply not how I read the proposal. I read that it says: '... unless you actively opt out as an organ donor. Well, if you haven't signed up, you're an organ donor. It is, after all, the complete opposite of what things are like today. Does the rapporteur not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123145412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123145414	Yes, if you automatically become an organ donor and you do not want to be an organ donor, then you must actively go in and resign. But that does not change the fact that everyone, as it is today, has to take a position because it does matter that you have taken a position. It is true that if you have not taken a position, the relatives, just as they are today, will be asked, and therefore it is important that you actively go in and take a position. I believe, like the proposers, that when you make this model, combined with we find more opportunities to ask people, we get more people to take an active position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123145457	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123145511	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much to the citizens who have tabled this proposal for automatic organ donation. This is a difficult question, but I think that is actually what citizens' proposals can do, namely to force us to take the difficult discussions, and I think we are obliged to do so too. About 90%. of the Danes today are in favour of organ donation, but only 22 per cent. by the Danes over 18 years of age have registered their position in the national donor register. This is a problem, and it is therefore quite relevant that the citizens have put forward this proposal. There are thousands of patients in Denmark who need organs if they are to be healthy. They're waiting for a phone call that could mean the difference between survival and disease. I really understand the support for this proposal, which means that we are automatically registered in the Donor Register and which will undoubtedly mean that we would have more organ donors immediately. It is important that many more Danes in the future take a position and register as organ donors. There is no doubt about that. In the SF, however, we are concerned that we as citizens actually take a position. For just as there are certainly a lot of people out there who have not just taken a position, a suggestion that we should automatically become donors and where we should actively report out will also mean that a lot of people do not just get it done that a lot of people do not get a position. The SF will therefore also propose an amendment to the citizens' proposal, which means that we all have a position that the issue should not just be postponed. This could happen, for example, when we receive NemID and when we have to answer yes or no to organ donation. This will in the long term mean that all Danes take an active position. In the same way, we support an effort here and now with information material and distribution at the country's schools and educational institutions and jobs. When many Danes are in favour of organ donation, but far fewer are registered, it is in itself an example that we have still not succeeded in doing so. Several Danes must take an active position on organ donation. The SF will not vote in favour of the proposal as it stands here, but we would like to contribute to the tabling of an amendment which will help us to adopt a position. An amendment in which we simply call for more people to take a position will be more of the same, and we recognise that. An amendment must therefore instead ensure that we have to make a decision, that we have to write yes, or that we have to write no, but I also hear from the rapporteurs in the Committee on Health that it makes sense to think about one thing too. And if that is the way forward for us to move one step closer, for all people to take an active position, then I think that could well be included in an amendment. So it will be the attitude of the SF that we try to work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123145840	Thank you. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123145843	Thank you. I would like to start by stressing that, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we fully share the ambition that we should have more to say yes. We need the organs, and we are fully in line with the SF: several organs, yes, thank you. But I noticed and it may well be that I misunderstood the fact that the rapporteur said that supposed consent would immediately give more organ donors. The rapporteur nods. Well, there are now many places in the world where supposed consent has been introduced. As far as I am aware, one has, for example, been informed. in Wales introduced presumed consent, but it has not raised the donor rate. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123145932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123145933	There are also very many other places where the opposite is true. Unfortunately, however, I believe that the same is true of organ donation, regardless of whether we talk of supposed consent or not, namely that 90%. of the Danes are in favour of organ donation, but that only 22 per cent. The Danes have registered their position. Unfortunately, I think the same thing will happen if we have assumed consent, namely that people will be registered, but they have not really made the decision themselves and are not doing anything about it. I believe that this will create ethical dilemmas both within the family and also in relation to the individual. I think it is important that we have actually taken the decision ourselves and there would be a proposal in which we would actively decide whether we want to be an organ donor or not make a difference. I therefore believe that such a proposal could increase the proportion of organ donors.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123150034	Thank you to the rapporteur. And here you go to the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Erik Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123150044	Like the other rapporteurs, I would also like to thank all the authors of this proposal, but I can say straight away that Conservatives cannot support the resolution. However, we think it is very good that we are now having a debate on this and thus creating interest in this again. There are citizens out there listening to this, and it could be really good if they are still out there listening if they just pulled out their cell phone and signed up for the Donor Register. After all, we are only two gentlemen here: the Socialist rapporteur and me; the rest are women; but I can say that both the Socialist rapporteur and I can also multitask. Now I registered for the Donor Register, but I was actually sitting right down the back and trying to see how fast it would be to go into health.dk if you had to sign up, and it takes less than 1 minute. That's all it takes. And there are actually four options that you can use: you can choose full registration, I have done so; you can register for limited permission; you can print by not; and you can also say no. So all the options are already there and it takes no time. But then I would say that, as I said, Conservatives cannot support a proposal where you are an automatic organ donor. In fact, we believe that such an intrusive decision can only be achieved by actively registering. That is quite clear. In Conservatives, of course, we hope, like everyone else, that even more than today will sign up to the Donor Register, but again: it must be voluntary and it must be an active action. We have heard several suggestions that this could happen in connection with one should have a new NemID, or other places where one could then go in and sign up. I think we need to think a lot, much further. Now I have just mentioned here that if anyone is listening to it, it might be that they could just go in and sign up. We must encourage many more people to do this, it may be our family, etc., but tonight there is one of the most popular broadcasts on TV, it has almost 1 million viewers, and it is excited about dancing. It's a shame the Minister of Health isn't here, so maybe she could have pleaded for that. But if you go there, for example... could encourage that when people still sit with their mobile phones and have to vote, then they could just go into health.dk, spend 1 minute and get signed up, then I think it could get really, very many to it. Conservatives will go really, really far to get a lot of people to sign up for this, and again: 22 percent. is far too little, but it must be quite active that you have to sign up. It has to be voluntary. We are fully open to all other things, but we cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123150326	Thank you. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Elderly and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123150347	The debate is open. Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123150416	Thank you. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution on abolishing user charges in municipal emergency places in home care. I would like to begin by saying what I have already said, both in written replies to the Folketing and also at consultations J on 13 November. There I said the same thing and said again that it has never been the political intention that the benefits and interventions of home nursing should be linked to self-payment, specifically in the form of a cost to the citizen, for example. for food when he or she is referred to a municipal emergency place under the Health Act. And that is also on the basis that I consider the motion for a resolution today. As the proposers also note, over the last few years we have seen a development in which more health-care tasks are carried out in the near health care sector. This is fundamentally positive, because it helps to ensure that citizens can receive health care and care that they need, also close to their own home or completely in their own home. Many municipalities have, for example: In recent years, municipal emergency functions have also been established, and municipal emergency functions are an integral part of home nursing, which means that the services provided in the emergency function are health care services. Local emergency services must carry out special nursing tasks which cannot be handled in the ordinary home nursing system. I do not think we had imagined this when the basic rules for municipal home nursing were drawn up many years ago. In the comments to the motion for a resolution, it appears that the actual stay in a municipal emergency place is regulated by the Services Act, while the nursing content is regulated by the Health Act, and that therefore the municipalities can charge the part of the total offer relating to the stay and that this can be done in addition, because the current rules open up the way for interpretation. I would like to take this opportunity to stress today at first reading that it is not, in the opinion of the Ministry of Health, a correct interpretation of the current rules. Offers for home nursing, including offers made at a municipal emergency place, are legally only defined as a health professional benefit in the Health Act and related regulations. The Ministry of Health has also obtained external legal assistance and concludes inter alia. on the basis that diet etc. is part of the free provision of home nursing when a citizen receives an effort from a municipal emergency function organised as an emergency place, and that the offer is therefore made solely on the basis of the Health Act. We have also discussed this in consultation with Mr J. The fact that some municipalities are now charging their own fees may be due to the fact that there has not been sufficient attention to distinguish between health and service law in the development that has taken place in this area. Therefore, the Ministry of Health has also considered that there may be a need to clarify the rules in this area, so that it is explicitly stated that diet, bed linen and the like. is part of the health professional's offer at a municipal emergency place. As I said in consultation J, self-payment in emergency places has also been carried into the negotiations on the Finance Act, where we discuss it with our good partner, the Danish People's Party, which I also know is very concerned about the subject. I also see that municipal emergency functions are at the heart of the resolution in close connection with the general development of our health services; a development that has made it necessary for us to make demands on the solution of the problem of close health provision. I can also mention here that we have already established quality standards for municipal emergency services in home nursing as part of the action plan for the elderly medical patient, which we have agreed with the Danish People's Party. And I really think that this is a good example of how we have already started to make demands on the quality of the municipal solution across the country, both in terms of competences and also in terms of equipment. This also means that from this year on, the emergency functions will have to meet quality standards in order to be able to describe themselves as a municipal emergency function at all. In a short time, the government will be presenting a health reform which will also have to put forward the tracks for health care for many years to come. It is a reform that has as its main objective to ensure better coherence for patients, more closeness to treatment and also to eliminate the regional differences we see, the country across and also to greatly strengthen the close health care system. Today, one in five patients does not experience that the hospital cooperates with municipal care when they are discharged, and that is one of the points the government wants to address with the reform. This is certainly one of the things that we see a need for attention to be paid to, including in ensuring that both preventive and post-scription and municipal emergency functions ensure a better coherence and a greater overall picture of the patient's overall course. We also believe that it is beneficial for patients to have treatment that interferes with everyday life as little as possible, and that it is also of great value to be treated in familiar surroundings, whether in their own homes or close to their own homes, and we know that this is especially true of some fellow citizens in our society, namely that it is even more valuable to be treated close to where you live or in your own home. But as I said, my ministry, the Ministry of Health, estimates that diet, bed linen and the like. is part of the overall health professional offer at municipal emergency places and that it should be clarified in the legislation. We are discussing this right now with the Danish People's Party in the financial law negotiations. Against this background, I regard the motion for a resolution as unnecessary and cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151003	Thank you. Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151006	Thank you to the Minister, and also to the Minister, for making it absolutely clear here today that, in the view of the Minister, there is no right to charge users for the services relating to home nursing. The remarks made in the motion for a resolution to which the Minister referred about whether it was a health or service law come from a minister's reply, in which the Minister had received a contribution from KL, which described that this was how the legislation was perceived. And now we hear from the Minister that this is a wrong view. I also hear the Minister say that we recognise that there is a need to clarify the legislation, because we have to say that it has also created a great deal of doubt as to the basis on which illegal user charges have been charged around some municipalities. It may be a matter of taste, but it seems to me that we might as well adopt that resolution, because then we are in agreement. In my opinion, we can also land it in other ways, but I would certainly like to welcome the fact that we are getting this area cleaned up. Finally, I would just like to ask the Minister whether there is anything to be done to ensure that those who have then been charged user charges illegally can get their money back.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151122	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151123	Thank you. This was also a bit of the discussion we had in consultation J, where I informed you that if you as a citizen experience that you have been wrongly charged an amount, you have a great deal of right to contact your municipality and get a description of what it is for a legal basis that the municipality thinks they have charged the money on, and also what it is for redress that you as a citizen have. However, there is no doubt that we have been discussing this here on several occasions and, as I said, we are also discussing it with the Danish People's Party in the context of the ongoing financial legislation negotiations. As I said in my reply, there may be a need to clarify some of the rules in this area, and in that case we will return to what it will include.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151211	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151213	The Minister says that this is a discussion that is going on around the table at the financial law negotiations. Is it because, in the view of the government, it is a proposal that will require money to be found? That is typical of what is being discussed in the context of the Finance Act. In other words, it will cost something, and who, in the opinion of the government, will have to pay for ensuring that there is no user charge in the emergency places that are in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151242	Well, on the part of the government, we believe that it has never been the political intention that there should be the collection of user charges in connection with referral under the Health Act to emergency places. That is also what I have said in the past, and it is also on this basis that we have obtained legal assistance and actually tried, also in relation to the answers I have given to Parliament, to clarify the extent to which this is taking place here. Because we know that there are a number of municipalities where no user charges have been charged in emergency places. And that's why it's part of the Finance Act negotiations with the Danish People's Party, both because I know it's an area that also occupies the Danish People's Party, just as we're discussing it here in the Chamber today and because we're also in the process of clarifying what it is then for an economy that's connected with this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151323	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151325	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister for Health whether, prior to the first reading of the motion for a resolution, the Minister for Health had considered letting the Committee on Health and the rapporteurs and the rapporteur here know that a decision had now been taken on the services previously provided as a possibility for user payments under the Services Act, so that the clarification has now been made as expressed by the Minister here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151350	We also talked about this in consultation J, where I said it was the Health Department's assessment. I also specifically replied to a question from Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen that I was able to confirm that legal assistance had been obtained. Yesterday I had a written question as to whether there was, as it were, a written legal contribution in that area, and that is now there. This was not the case when we had consulted J, and of course I also come to, as has been requested by the Folketing, to ignore it, so that it is included. However, I do not think that I am saying anything other than that I said in consultation J. Perhaps the clarity lies in the fact that the legal contribution, which I also mentioned in consultation J, is now in a final form.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151436	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151437	I just feel that all our preparations before today could have been qualified if the Minister had ensured that this answer had been given. Because I also know that the committee subsequently wrote to the Minister about precisely the legal contributions, that is to say what the situation was. So I feel so a little undressed about it, and I think that what has been the Minister's reason for not knowing this before we deal with it here. But I will try to dig into that and see what the Minister said in the conciliation, because I think what is being said today is in a completely different clear tone, which is unambiguous. It wasn't on the consultation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151521	But yesterday I received a question from the Danish Parliament as to whether we are going to pass on the legal contribution. It does not have the deadline for today, and that is not the link to the first reading today. I will of course reply to that, because now there is a written legal contribution. This was not the case when we had consultation J, and perhaps it is also the basis for the rapporteur's view that I am speaking more clearly. It is clear that when the legal external assistance, which I mentioned in consultation J, is now also available in a written form, it provides a different starting point in order to be able to say things more clearly than one has when it is still a discussion where the Ministry of Health has a legal assessment and external legal assistance has been obtained for the legal assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151603	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151605	Thank you for that and also thank you for the Minister's rather clearer answer as to what it is like with the transfer of tasks from hospitals to municipalities, which is why these doubts have arisen. Because I really don't think the municipalities have just thought: we just do. I think they've compared them to some relief spots. This is also one of my concerns in relation to the fact that municipalities charge user fees. How do we now avoid a conflict as to when something has been referred to by the Health Act to emergency places, and when is some relief? Do we really not risk a lot of cases in the Ankestyrelsen, if there is not a very, very clear definition of what is what? And can the Minister guarantee that we will see a reduction in the number of citizens at risk of having to pay user fees when they end hospital treatment or prevent hospitalisation, end up in an emergency room?
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151711	Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151712	But we also discussed this in consultation J, and I think that the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Health, Mrs Liselott Blixt, described it very specifically on the basis of the Greve Municipality, where the chairman of the committee is also chairman of the committee, in relation to the fact that there is a clear distinction between the Health Act and the Service Act. That is what I said myself. There is a very large difference between whether we are talking about citizens who are undergoing rehabilitation, rehabilitation and who are there temporarily because they are being searched for a nursing home, or whether there is medical care difference, after all, on what legal basis one is referred to. This was also the discussion we had in consultation J, and I still think that there is a marked difference between whether you as a citizen are entering a nursing home and are in the process of clarifying what kind of nursing home you might want and need, and that after a hospital stay you will be discharged and need nursing care.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151822	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151823	I also heard the President's explanation of how the task had been defined in Greve, i.e. with some patient rooms where there was at least oxygen and there was suction. But I also know about some of the cases where we had doubts about when something was an aid, when it was a treatment tool, and then the case ended up in the Ankestyrelsen. So there are some unresolved questions. So I would actually just like to ask the Minister whether the Minister agrees that, as we charge for accommodation in emergency rooms or whatever it may be, we will find that there are simply elderly people who have to opt out of the necessary assistance and care and treatment because they think they cannot afford it. We are talking about stays that can cost up to 4,000 kroner. a month.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151913	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123151914	I think that Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen may have a different starting point from what I have, because in my universe it is so that if you are searched and referred to by the Health Act, it is not a question of what you can choose for yourself. It is therefore a question of assessing the need for a nursing professional offer which presupposes that one is present at an emergency place. Therefore, it is also included in the offer, according to the Health Act, that you get diet, that you get laundry, bed linen and the like made available as part of the overall offer. Therefore, I cannot follow Mrs Kirsten Normann in this discussion that it should create social inequality. That is precisely what helps to ensure a more close and safer health care system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123152000	Thank you, and thank the Minister for Health. We shall begin with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123152016	Thank you, Madam President. As we are hearing here, we are dealing with a resolution on the abolition of user charges for stays in municipal emergency places rather than in hospitals, and this completely escapes the Socialist position. Last Monday I visited Holstebro, and I visited Holstebro's health house, a newly built, fantastic house with lots of health functions, lots of multi-professionality, both municipal functions, regional functions, general practice and private functions too. This function and construction is actually the model that we in the Social Democratic Party call near hospitals. We have the large regional hospitals, where we have highly specialised functions, we have other regional hospitals, where you can have elective or acute functions, and then we see a landscape in the future where you have near hospitals, where multi-professionality is involved, close to where citizens live. At this health house in Holstebro they had about 25 emergency places. It was really a pleasure to experience it, it was a pleasure to see it, watch the staff be active, see patients, it is so citizens, and relatives be part of the function that is unfolding here. It is a very good new feature that we have built up, where the Danish Health Authority has also set up quality frameworks for professionalism and to ensure some uniformity. It is not going so well yet, but I am listening to what the Minister says and there we have a common goal for it. This is something that has happened over recent years, i.e. that the municipalities are doing a great deal to strengthen the close health care system, also by setting up this kind of emergency places for particularly elderly people as an alternative to hospitalization, but it may also be a question of receiving some care and some care and some treatment after hospitalization. For social democracy, free and equal access to health is an absolutely indispensable foundation of our welfare society, and that is why it is a step in the wrong direction when we have been able to see that there has been user fees in this area, when treatment as a nursing stay, which was previously completely free of charge for the citizen, because it took place inside the hospitals, suddenly costs money because it is now happening in the form of an emergency place in the municipality. The weakest elderly will suffer badly, and we in the Social Democratic Party have met a lot of people who have wondered how the hell this could happen. Then, as the Minister has also said, we have had a consultation where we have discussed it here and where the Minister also said that the political intention has been different from what we are seeing now. As I said just now in my question to the Minister for Health, I am somewhat surprised at why nothing has happened before. Why haven't we been told this? I really think it has taken a turn since the last conciliation we held in this field. In any case, it is quite clear from the Socialist side where we want to go, because we do not want this own payment, because it gives inequality, and it gives a completely wrong signal that some parts of our health services should be able to afford it. I have to say that I think it is snail speed that the Ministry of Health and the governments have not been able to ensure clarification of this before. Why could this answer not be given just as clearly to the consultation as it is being given now? If it is because of the fact that it is speeded up now in relation to financial law negotiations or otherwise, I would just like to say that then we should have had financial law negotiations six months ago, because this has affected citizens, and that is not a fair way of sending signals to our people, so there is confusion as to whether it should be covered as a user fee when it is service law, but not when it is health law. Here I think we should try to qualify the work of the ministries and take things more seriously than what appears when we look at how this matter has been raised earlier. I have heard that this was not the intention of the government, and we are hearing today that no user charges should be charged, even when it is the Health Act that is supposed to cover what is medicine, the rental of linen, transport and other parts. So I am satisfied that we have a clarification. We have written loud and clear in our health policy proposal that we will not model this, we will make sure that we are removed. I would be happy if we were to clarify quickly so that it would be communicated to all 98 municipalities what the regulatory framework should be. This is also what the municipalities should be able to expect from a Ministry of Health and a Parliament. I think it has been dragged on a little bit and that we have been made a little fool in this context, but I am glad that the Minister is making it clear today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123152522	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123152531	I think that is a fantastic suggestion. That is why we have brought it to the financial law negotiations, in order to clarify it, so that the municipalities that did not know what rules were applicable in this area find out what is right and what is wrong. Sometimes I'm glad I'm wearing two hats like that, a municipal hat and a parliament hat. Because in Greve we have had no doubt that of course no money is being paid for someone being in an emergency room. We made them in 2011 for the old people's money that Dansk Folkeparti got set off in a VK government, and that was a lot of years ago. We used that money to make these emergency rooms with oxygen and suction, and what else should be, made appointments with GPs to make sure you had an alternative to hospitalization. That was the beginning of it. Then it became possible to receive some people who were not fully completed in the hospital, but for whom they then went home in their living room, and for which we did not take any money. So, of course, I wonder why some municipalities have done so. I have also been a little afraid that it might be mixed together in a temporary place, a rehabilitation place or an emergency room, but these are very different things, and we need to be much more aware of that. I also put this on the agenda when we drew up an action plan for the medical patient, where we just defined what it is that is needed to call an emergency room, and I am glad that the Minister also sort of tackles it and finds out if there are municipalities mixing it together. 'Cause I guess it's about fifty-fifty where some people have taken the money and some haven't. So I hope there will be clarity so that the municipalities know what it is. So, as I said, this is a fantastic proposal, that is exactly what the Danish People's Party has taken. So I hope that we will soon be able to present a Finance Act, if we can agree, and if we do not agree on the Finance Act, I can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123152735	Here you go, Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123152737	I would just like to ask whether, in the opinion of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, the rules are quite clear or whether there is a need for clarification. Because it cannot really be both, and I have some doubts, and indeed also when I hear the Minister. Because, on the one hand, it is said that the Ministry of Health is of the opinion that the rules are clear and, on the other hand, there may still be a need for clarification. Both cannot really be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123152802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123152803	I think there's a lot of things in it. Now I also wear a third hat by working in home care, having worked in nursing homes and hospitals, so you know what the difference is, and I think it can be difficult. That's also why a lot of people mix up these living rooms that you have in the municipality. There are politicians who are not health professionals who do not know the difference themselves, and that means that when you make some plans, you mix it together, and that is why we have to tell them much more clearly what is what. So I think that's the mistake.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123152836	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123152843	Thank you, President. In Denmark we have free and equal access to health care, regardless of age, economy, status or other, and that is how we in the Left want it to be. Equal access and free treatment are a cornerstone of the Danish healthcare system, and from the Left we share the starting point that the proposers from Enhedslisten stress: that there should be no user fees for stays on municipal emergency functions or in home care for that matter under the Health Act. The emergency places in the municipalities are basically a good idea, both for the elderly and for the elderly. is at risk of dehydration on a hot summer day, and for the elderly, who, after a short or long period of illness and hospitalization, may be ready to be discharged from the hospital, but are not quite ready to meet everyday life in their own homes, and the emergency places are a good example of proximity to health care. I have visited emergency places myself, among others. in Espe on Funen, and rejoiced at the home surroundings under which the elderly could recover. Unfortunately, we have seen a really sluggish development in which users of emergency services and functions have been charged for their stay, and that has never been the intention. It is painful to witness when user payments sneak into health care by the back way, and it is a challenge that there are large municipal variations, both in relation to which municipalities charge and how much. That's not gonna work. According to KL 60 municipalities, they have established emergency functions and 52 charge their own money to the citizen. With Section 138 of the Health Act in hand, I can only note that the municipalities are responsible for providing care free of charge after medical reference. This is the case with Article 84 (2) of the Services Act. 2 when e.g. a spouse needs relief, and in that case the municipalities can charge for e.g. Food. It has never been the intention that the use of emergency functions should lead to a self-payment, and it is also a wrong path to move down, and we do not want to go down that road in the Left. Therefore, I can say with peace of mind to the proposers that you kick in an open door. For precisely these days, the government is negotiating finance law with the Danish People's Party, and the way I hear the bongos, user fees for emergency places are a focal point in the negotiations. As far as the motion for a resolution here is concerned, as I said earlier, we in the Left agree with the intentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123153114	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123153130	Thank you. When you look around Denmark and look at where we have user charges and where we do not have user charges, you have to admit that there are a number of border cases that are more justified by historical coincidences than such a deep rational justification. There is not necessarily a deep rational justification or explanation for the fact that the person who falls on the bike and breaks his arm can be treated squarely and freely, while the person who falls on the bike and gets tooth damage may risk having to have the wallet out. In relation to care in the municipalities, the description has been used that expenditure under the Health Act must always be without user fees, while there may be user charges for expenses under the Services Act. It has always been the intention, as the previous rapporteurs have also said, that the costs of emergency places should be borne under the auspices of the Health Act, and so it has never been the intention that there should be user fees for that part. That is why, in fact, we in the Liberal Alliance also think it makes good sense to put this right. We basically think it makes sense that there is a legal situation, so there is no difference between whether you live in one municipality or another municipality. It must be the case that you are equal, regardless of which municipality you live in when it comes to user charges in the health sector. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance are also pleased that this problem has been raised in the Finance Act and we are awaiting that dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123153302	Thank you. We move on to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123153308	Thank you. Where a stay in a hospital is free of charge, virtually all municipalities in the Capital Region at least require payment for the emergency places they have for vulnerable elderly people. It is, of course, untenable and unheard of in a society where we must all have free and equal access to health, and I am glad that it sounds as if there is agreement on it. So, of course, I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for having tabled the resolution, because it is extremely important to focus on this area. It is, of course, large amounts which we have seen as vulnerable older people can be charged for an emergency place in a municipality. As several have also described, it is because we have two legislations... we have a Service Act and a Health Act... and the municipalities then choose to use the Service Act to claim fairly high amounts of user charges. It is a good thing that the Minister has said that clarity needs to be established in this area and that money must also be found if it is a question of the municipalities being compensated for these high amounts that they are charging. So if the rules are unclear, we have to do something about it. I also hope that there will be a great many municipal councillors looking at this debate today and that they will go back to their municipal councils and say: are we doing this in this municipality that I am sitting in, because it is not really reasonable to charge such a large amount of money from vulnerable groups of our citizens in society? So from what I can sense, I am confident and positive about what has been said by several government parties, and I hope that we will find a solution to this which has so far been quite unreasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123153509	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123153519	Thank you. This is an important issue raised by the Enhedslisten with this motion for a resolution. Now it gets a little bit comical because the Minister for Health has made the sneak on us; it is such a classic political move that when a party makes a motion for a resolution, the government always makes sure that it is fixed in a way in which the motion for a resolution is, as it were, unnecessary. And that's just good. Because, as a politician, you can be very concerned about who gets credit for it, but you can just be happy that you solve a problem, and here it sounds as if the problem is being solved. I would just like to add from the point of view of Radicals that we are very concerned about getting more prevention and getting it closer, and that is why it makes sense for us to find out about each other in terms of how we regulate it in a good way. I believe that the next step is that we are also much more discussing where it is also that it makes even more sense to have more common management, more common economy. And then there are some of these things that are going to give themselves, and that is going to be the big, exciting discussion that I look forward to having with the government too. But for the time being, I just want to thank you for your work on the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123153640	Thank you. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123153647	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Enhedslisten for presenting this proposal for the abolition of user charges for stays in municipal emergency places instead of hospitals, and also thank the Minister. I don't have to call it the sneak, I think it's high time that the government dealt with this very important issue. We ourselves in the SF have asked questions about user charges many times, and we have also had several consultations on user charges in the care of the elderly, because we find that the limits of free health move and that is wrong. User charges in health care are generally wrong. It must not be the wallet that has to decide if we are getting the right help. It does not live up to the ideal of equality in health. User charges for, for example, emergency rooms are quite unreasonable and create so much inequality in health. And as hospitals discharge patients earlier and earlier, it leaves some patients in a difficult situation, not least elderly patients. They are often too healthy to lie in effective hospitals, but too sick to come home, and it is the task of society to take care of patients until they are completely healthy. It may well make sense for the municipalities to take over part of the effort. It is cheaper both for the municipality and for the region, and all the more unreasonable it is that a number of municipalities then charge for something that has so far been free for all of us. Fortunately, as a patient in a hospital, you do not have to pay for food and drink, medicine, linen rental and cleaning. It is therefore a bad thing to charge for just that, just because the treatment and care have moved from the hospital into the municipality. A stay in an emergency room costs an average of DKK 160. the day, and the bill can be huge before the patient is healthy enough to be discharged. The bill for these services can keep some patients from accepting the offer of an emergency room. It is deeply problematic and, by the way, very dangerous if people need treatment and care that they do not get just because they cannot afford. User fees do not belong in the Danish healthcare system, and it must be stopped. In the SF, we would like to get the user fee away from the health system, as we believe it to be inequitable. We therefore also believe that, in general terms, we should set in motion a process whereby we slowly, but surely, abolish user charges in health care, so that we are all equally entitled to good treatment regardless of our economic conditions. It goes the wrong way if the government accepts that new user charges are being sneaked in through the back door for a new group of patients, those who are too healthy to be effective hospitals, but not healthy enough to come home. I am glad that the Minister is saying that this is an issue which we take note of. I would be very concerned that, at the same time, the government will also ensure that we do not have a new slippery slope, where patients risk having their cases settled in the Ankestyrelsen over and over again, because municipalities and regions cannot then agree on whether it was one type of treatment or the other type of treatment they should have. However, whatever happens, and if the proposal is put to the vote, the SF will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123154012	Thank you. Sir. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123154017	Thank you. As the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, it is a fantastic proposal. It is so good when a fantastic proposal is also unnecessary, and it is, of course, because the government, together with the Danish People's Party, is already in the process of discussing the issue of the ongoing financial law negotiations. But that does not make the proposal any less fantastic. The studies carried out show that there is a great difference between how individual municipalities handle citizens who need an emergency post-hospital care. I hope and believe that it may be because there are some who do not really understand the concepts of emergency space, waiting space and relief, and that is why I hope that the municipalities may not have quite understood what it is about and may not have quite answered what was asked about. I don't know, but I certainly hope so. Because, as several people have said, it has not been the intention for citizens who are taken from hospitals as part of fulfilling obligations under the Health Act to suddenly pay for diet, linen, laundry and everything else. This is something that must be free of charge in health care, whether it is in hospitals or in the municipalities. Citizens who are taken from hospitals as part of fulfilling obligations under the Health Act must be treated financially in exactly the same way as if they were admitted to a hospital. When patients do not have to pay in the hospital, they do not have to pay for an emergency place. Some municipalities can find out that citizens do not have to pay, while other municipalities may not be able to quite figure it out. And I must admit that as a municipal politician in Allerød I do not actually know how we act there, but I will of course also try to find out what we do in my own municipality. Are we doing this right? Because if we do this wrong, we need to get right right. And it is also the case in other municipalities that immediate correction needs to be made. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister will now enter into dialogue with KL to see whether there is a need to clarify what the free offers include so that it can be the same in all the municipalities in the country. I really look forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123154227	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123154236	Thank you for that and thank you for a long day in this Chamber in good company. I would like to begin by expressing my enthusiasm for the prospect of a solution to this problem, which, of course, is one of them. was raised in the summer when DR discovered that there are major differences in whether the municipalities charge user fees when they are hospitalised in a municipal emergency place rather than in a hospital. I hear very well, I think, and what I hear quite clearly from all the parties in the Folketing is that it is not intended to be that way in the future. I fully agree with that. I think it is quite unreasonable when you are admitted to a municipal emergency place as a citizen instead of in a hospital that you are then suddenly charged a user fee for something that used to be free of charge. After all, this proposal has the wording that we want the government to put forward a legislative proposal which makes it quite clear in the law. After all, we have tabled the proposal because we can see that it is not so clear. It could then be said that, if it were quite clear, this summer, when the debate raged, we could have just said, 'Try to hear, the legislation is clear, there is no legal basis for charging users'. You didn't. On the contrary, when it came to the beginning of September, the Minister said that it was being examined and that it was also thought that there was a need for preparation of the law, i.e. that it was not clear. That is the reason why we have been able to see that there is a need for us as a Parliament to act in some way here. After all, we are the ones who are dealing with and adopting the legislation. I have also been able to look at the public debate, so it is not because it surprises me today that there are many parties who think that it should not be the way we see that the reality is that there are many who think that it is wrong to have been able to charge users. That is why I think it was obvious that we should then do something and have the opportunity to discuss the matter in the Chamber and adopt something. It has puzzled me a little that, when we were able to see at the beginning of September that there was a need to clarify the law, so that there is not already a legislative proposal that we could take a position on, because as long as we do not get this cleaned up, there will still be user charges out there. There will be for a while. To quote a good colleague in here, I am very impatient in this matter. That is why I think it should go rather faster than what is happening today. Today I hear new notes from the Minister. We can then discuss the argument is perhaps so much said about whether it is new tones or not, but when I read the Minister's speech paper from the consultation last week, the Minister said there that there was a dialogue with the KL about what the legislation was like, and the Minister also said several times that it asked KL to explain the legal basis for charging this user fee, whereas today I think we are hearing quite clearly from the Minister that the Minister does not believe that the legal basis for charging user charges exists. So I hear it at least as a different clear statement that it is not legal to charge users. In addition to this, I think that we have an obligation to ensure that those who have been so illegally charged with user charges receive that payment back. The Minister is suggesting that you as a citizen should approach yourself. I think it may be an expression of a rather poor service. I think it ought to be a responsibility of the authorities who have illegally clawed payment into the local authorities in this case that you then review who you have demanded user payments from and pay back that money. I think that would be appropriate, and I think we should continue to do so. Well, then it should be quite simple that when the Folketing agrees, then the majority is probably at home. Now I've been in here for just over seven years now, so I'm gonna be able to translate what happens in here. It's not exactly like that. And it is because it is the case that no matter what government there is, one does not like very much when there is a motion for a resolution which has not been tabled itself. As Mrs Lotte Rod has said, peace is the most important thing, and I agree with that. However, I think that you should all have an invitation to vote in favour of the proposal so that we can show together that we all agree on this. That is why, of course, I would like to put it to the vote and also say that this is the very last proposal that I will give you, because in four weeks' time I will be on leave and then you will not see me anymore. So it could also be an invitation to put the tactics aside a little, and then I could get it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123154803	Yeah, on a good Friday afternoon. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181123154819	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 27 November 2018, at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
