ParlaMint-DK_20180117130003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Church Minister (Mette Bock): Bill no. L 128 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Election of Congregation Councils. Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 60 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a language thermobank). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 61 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on adult certificates for staff working with people who have a physical or mental impairment). Pelle Dragsted (EL) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 62 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting-off of mayors and presidents of the regional councils). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Trine Bramsen (S) and Rasmus Horn Langhoff (S) have informed me that they want to withdraw the following proposals: Proposal for a parliamentary resolution on better and more targeted action for victims of psychological violence. (24). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the proposal has lapsed. Then I'll let you know that they're under number one. 5, S 403, and No 8, S 404, listed questions to the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior by Morten Bødskov are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. I have to inform you that Benny Engelbrecht under No. Questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, Question No 7 S 402 shall be deleted from the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130154	The first question is to the Minister of Justice of Rasmus Prehn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130207	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130208	Thank you very much, President. Does the Minister believe that the police have the tools to address organised street races that threaten road safety in, for example, Aalborg, cf. Gadeæs has moved to a new location in Nordjyske on 12 January 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130222	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130223	Thank you and thank you for the question. This is, of course, quite unacceptable when public roads are used for illegal racing, as the article says has been the case in Aalborg. As the article shows, police give priority to the fight against illegal racing and, of course, send out patrols when you become aware that an illegal street race is under way. As an important part of the fight against illegal racing, the police collect documentation about the perpetrators in order to be able to prosecute them later. The documentation shall be collected, inter alia: using civil video vehicles and using speed measurements with manual lasers. At the same time, the police confiscate the perpetrators' vehicles when there is a basis for prosecution. For example, in North Jutland in December 2017, two cars have been confiscated in connection with a specific case of street racing. In addition, the police cooperate with several municipalities to stop street racing, for example. by prohibiting driving in certain areas or for certain periods of time. In some places it is considered whether the physical layout of the roads, e.g. setting up booms and the like can help limit the possibility of driving illegal street races. So the focus is on action against street races. Unfortunately, police circles experience that there may be challenges in getting to grips with the problem, because young people also find a way to organise themselves and the problem can therefore move quickly to a new place. And in order to further strengthen efforts, the National Police Department has decided to set up a working group with representatives of selected police circles to see if there can be more appropriate ways of dealing with the problem. The working group shall, inter alia: to gain experience from the various police circles and to propose new operational methods to prevent organised street races more effectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130419	Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130420	First of all, many thanks to the Minister, both for a very detailed answer, but also for taking this seriously and seriously into account. It is the case that it can seem enormously violent and threatening to neighbours and business owners in these areas, where suddenly there are perhaps more than 100 people gathered and there are cars that stop and gas up, and then there is racing. The young people are probably having a lot of fun, but for outsiders it seems threatening and very troublesome. There have been examples of trying to sign and communicate with young people that this is not appropriate, that it is not legal and that they should stop doing so. It will then continue to take place, and there are also examples in Northern Jutland that it will move to other places once it has been minimized somewhere. There is no doubt that what might perhaps be the most appropriate thing was also what the minister and I had the opportunity to talk about before we started was if the municipality, possibly together with experienced police officers or others, could point out places where you can drive this street race under orderly conditions. But as we were also given the opportunity to talk about, there is probably something about some of the tension for these young people in violating the law. And it is positive to hear that the Minister is aware of the problem and that the police have a working party working on it. Can the Minister elaborate a little more on what specific tools the Minister can envisage in order to enter into this work of influencing young people's attitudes and getting them to change their behaviour and also, ultimately, to intervene and have them prosecuted if they do not stop doing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130606	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130608	Thank you. I think, as I said, there are several things in this. One thing is that now the working group sits down to see if there is anything else to be done. I mentioned that you do something with lasers and that you try to set up civilian vehicles in certain places. It's not like we can just put up a photo car, because they're gonna find it sometime. So what this work is all about is simply saying: we have all the tools, and sometimes there is where to ask ourselves whether there are any tools that we can develop or that we do not know today. Because sometimes that's how we all know that they say: We have these tools in the toolbox, is that enough? So that's what the work is gonna be about. I cannot really predict what this is going to be about, but the idea should simply be to see if we can find some other ways of doing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130651	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130652	Thank you again for your answer. Can the Minister comment on the extent of this? I mean, how often do the police have to go out to street races? What are some examples of people who have been prosecuted? Does the minister have any figures on that? It might be interesting to hear what the scale really is, because somewhere it is quite unreasonable that Danish society should use police resources on something like this, when there are so many other important things to take care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130720	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130721	I would like to say two things. I very much agree with the latter. This kind of thing is crazy to spend police resources on, just as you can be annoyed that the police have to move out when there are large groups of people who cannot behave properly. Well, it's a little too bad that that's how it's supposed to be. I cannot say the figures within the context of this question. But I would very much like to find them, because this probably also has a certain geographical aspect, I think, in relation to where there are some opportunities for young people to do this. But I also think you can see, if you look back a few years, that it has gone a little up and down with how much trend it has been. I think it is important that when something gets started in a certain place that they have now experienced in Aalborg, you get into dialogue with these young people. There must be the whole penalty palette, but I also think it is important to try to get into dialogue with some of them to talk to them about: Hey, guys, shouldn't we try to find a place where you can do this instead of risking other people's lives and limbs?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130810	Thank you and the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130811	I will again sign for the Minister's reply. The Minister says that there is a palette of sanctions that we can take action with. I think that is a good thing. The Minister also says that the path of dialogue can be a way to go, and I think that is also wise and sensible. With regard to the specific figures, I will try to ask them in writing, and then I will look forward to getting an answer to that. But thank you for the Minister's constructive answer to this question. I think it is evidence that the Minister has a good plan in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130843	Thank you. The question is finished. There is a new question for the Minister of Justice, and that is by Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130854	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130856	Thank you. How long does the Minister expect from a young person to commit crime until various appeals have been verified, according to the government's proposal on juvenile delinquency?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130907	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117130909	Thank you and thank you for the question. After all, it is absolutely essential that young people who commit crime are quickly held to account. And that is why the government, in its proposal, has set short and sharp deadlines for the administration to deal with the cases. Then we propose that the decisions of the Youth Crime Board should be final and therefore not be changed by a higher administrative appeal body. Only the very intrusive decisions on placement and only on placement should be subject to testing by the Ankestyrelsen. In other cases, the young person must go to the courts if the young person is dissatisfied with the decision. That is what is very important to keep in mind, and we also touched on it a little last week's Question Time in this area. However, the seconds are not so many seconds, so I would say that this is possible, and there we also touched on the possibility of appealing. However, it is essential to bear in mind that the complaint, whether it goes to the Ankestyrelsen or the courts, should not, as a starting point, have suspensory effect. So when, in other words, the Youth Crime Board has established an immediate reaction and an improvement process, the young person must start implementing what has been decided by the jury, whether or not he complains about the decision. That is probably what it is essential for us not to have the long processing times, which I think we mentioned a little last week in Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131038	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131039	Thank you. I am actually very pleased with the Minister's reply, because this is something we have been circling about. I think it is actually the third hour of question time that we are revolvering around it. I will start by wearing the positive glasses, because I am quite happy that the government is saying that this is going to go through wherever you choose to complain or appeal to, and that the minister also mentioned the Ankestyrelsen and the city court, so that it is like being fleshed out. But what also interests me, and I think I mentioned the reply from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Home Affairs of 2016 about the last time this is going to be a very long time, from complaining about an placement, it is so in the social system, until you can have a review of it in the courts. I cannot really ignore the fact that I think it is a political opinion, of course, that the government has chosen a poor solution in relation to the solution that we actually agreed on before the last elections. After all, it was a solution that actually designed an entire system, both with the whole criminal justice section and with the judicial section, so there was also a judge at the end of the table. I just can't ignore that. I think we are really going over the river for water here; we are doing something which could be relatively simple and which, moreover, would mean that we lived up to an electoral promise that was fairly complicated. The Minister has replied in the past that it is the same system as the system of complaints. I would just like to ask the Minister: can it be expected that this processing time has now been mentioned last time, that 105 days have passed since a matter was settled in a committee until it can be tried by the city court or until they decide the case falls, that is to say, that the processing time with the government's new system falls? Or will it rise? Or will it be the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131231	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131232	Firstly, I agree that this was also a political balance, but now it is important to keep things separate. I think we also mentioned last week that when it's the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs, it's all cases. Here we create a special system for a particular group of young people. The idea is precisely that time limits have been set. The police must quickly decide whether or not to deal with the Youth Crime Board, and now there is a time limit for dealing with it and implementing it with special juvenile criminal services. So I would be very keen on us meeting these deadlines and setting ambitious targets. But I guess I'm thinking that's one of the things we're gonna be negotiating in this whole game, that's how this is gonna be screwed up. I just think it is important that we do not compare it with children's cases in general. Because the idea is we're making a special system here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131322	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131323	We're setting up a special system. Today it is the social system. That is also why we have asked the Minister for Social Affairs about this at the time to find out how long this takes, how many days it takes. We are, of course, concerned that it will be much faster. Let me ask you something else: in one of the cases that has been lined up, a fixed track is outlined by the city court. I do not know whether the Minister will be prepared to simply make a fast track in all these cases, even for the complaints bodies that need to be, so that you can make sure that this is done very quickly so that you do not have these cases that run indefinitely.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131358	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131400	Well, I'd like to discuss that. I do not want to stand here and give guarantees in such an oral Question Time. But when we get into a room and talk about it, we're gonna have to see how we can make this work together. Because we have been talking about this several times over the same goal, and it is, of course, that as many of these young people as possible experience a rapid reaction when they get into crime. Secondly, we need to have matters dealt with quickly, and there is another system we are setting up, and I look forward to it being discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131427	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131429	Then I would just like to ask, like one last thing, about the social system which is today and which deals with these matters. The social system will then not be, but a system which should deal with these complaints. If you are unhappy with a decision in the list, where will the big difference be? It's more so I can identify where the big difference between this administrative processing time will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131456	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131457	The big difference will be that here we are creating a special system for young people who are in danger of being on their way to crime. For this particular group, we're gonna create a specific system that's moving fast. When the questioner has asked the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs, I assume now I haven't just seen the answer that it's all cases, that is, everything with children. That means it's not just the 12-14-year-olds. This is going to be a special system for a smaller group, and that's what we're talking about. The size of the group is expected somewhat less than the many cases we see.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131532	Thank you. Then there is a new question for the Minister of Justice, also by Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131539	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131540	Thank you. What changes to sanctions, with particular emphasis on detention, conditions and conditions during detention, are being proposed in the government's new juvenile delinquency?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131552	Thank you, and also thank you for that question. After all, there is already a wide range of reaction options available to young criminals. However, I believe that today's efforts lack common direction and consistency in their use. The Youth Crime Board shall, as a starting point, have available the existing response options when establishing an immediate response and an improvement path. However, the immediate response must have an educational and, as far as possible, restorative effect, and the improvement process of up to 2 years must be tailored according to the situation and nature of the young person. Measures can range very far, from mild measures such as: to require you to attend to your school and be home at 8:00. 22.00 on weekdays, for the appointment of contact persons, for the performance of socially useful work, for participation in drug abuse treatment, and then at the hard end of the scale: placement in a 24-hour institution. In other words, the response possibilities offered by the report will largely correspond to the sanctions which a youth court should have available under the motion for a resolution tabled by the author's party last year, B 137. In addition, we are also proposing a number of extensions in relation to the possibilities of force use in the 24-hour institutions. I shall not go into much detail about that today. I think we should talk a lot more about that when we negotiate the deal. But just briefly I can say that we are in the process of introducing access to door alarms, video surveillance, better access to body search and access to mobile phones, Internet and the like.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131729	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131730	Thank you for that answer. I actually thought that on many stretches was very satisfactory. One of the things I would like to hear from the Minister is what is on page 14 of the government's proposal, because there is a section on youth care. We would like to know what such a juvenile criminal service really is. Because that is not very detailed in the government's plans, and when you hear the name, it almost gives the impression that it is such a real criminal service for young people. But we would like to hear something about, for example. I would like to see some of the places that are today nationalised. Something is private, something is municipal, and there are various other arrangements. So, do you want to state it all and do a real juvenile delinquency service, or is it something that has to run in parallel, or what are the plans? Because if you do a real juvenile delinquency service, which is what the name says, it will be a huge breach, you can say, with what it has normally been like in this area. This does not mean that we are against it as a starting point, but it would just be something very new, one might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131835	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131837	Yes, it will. But I also think it is necessary to have it. A young criminal service must, of course, take care of the work of the criminal services, just for young people, within the framework of young people. After all, today it is not a case worker who is recommending to the juvenile delinquency committee or, of course, it is today, because there we do not have a board. Today it is a case officer, but in the future we want the police, not a case officer, to recommend to the juvenile delinquency committee. And then we are going to do a juvenile delinquency service which will follow up on the fact that the things that have now been given a response are also being fulfilled. It's kind of a system that's gonna act like a criminal justice service, just for this group. However, I think we will also need to discuss this in greater detail when we are going to negotiate it. Because it can be screwed up in a number of ways. Well, what do we want with it? We can discuss that. How local is it supposed to be? How is this to be anchored? I think that is worth a discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131933	Is it the government's plan that a youth criminal service will have to manage the places that today act as secured or specially secured institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131942	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117131943	Then I misunderstood the question, if that's what it was all about. Well, the idea isn't that the 24-hour institutions that are today should be taken over. It's more like the Crime Service today to follow up on people in ankle chains and all these things. There's a broad palette in criminal justice. The idea here is that a youth criminal service has the task of following up the reactions of the jury and the judgments they make, if one can put it that way. So these aren't the physical places I imagine you have to take over. The institutions must function as they do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132025	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132026	Does that mean that the only form of criminal justice that is like that is those who drive around and see if people have ripped off their ankle bracelet or if it is still sitting there? It's just so I get it. So is it the case that there are no secure institutions at all? That must also be checked. Well, what's the part here? For now the minister said that it is like those who look at ankle chains. I'd like to know if this is going to lead to taking over something physical, whether it's going to run in parallel? Because that's gonna sound like a complete supervisory body.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132056	Yes, because someone has to check that what is decided is being followed up. There is no point in the mention making a decision, and we hope that some will take care of that. Well, we need someone to follow up. I feel that today a closed-door institution does not necessarily improve by saying that it should be done by the state. That's not what I'm thinking at all. I think that we know the reactions that exist today; we know that young people can now find themselves in a situation where we place them in a closed 24-hour institution. But then, of course, we need someone to supervise them and cooperate with the institution and with the family and keep an eye on things happening. And that's why there's gonna be a juvenile delinquency service working with the rest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132140	Thank you. The question is closed. Then the next question to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132149	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132150	Thank you, President. Will the Minister present a new 2025 plan after the failed tax negotiations, so that the Folketing has a more legitimate basis for discussions on economic policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132203	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132207	First of all, I welcome the fact that the government has managed to make tax cuts many times in the course of 2017: first, together with the Social Democracy, where we made a housing tax agreement that means that the tax for homeowners will be lower here in the years to come, and then a new tax model that will gradually be phased in from 2021. Then a North Sea agreement, together with the Social Democrat Party, in which we reduce the tax on investments in the North Sea, which makes it possible for us to develop the Tyra field to the full and thus to make the best use of the resources available in the North Sea. Since then, we have made a tax reform, without social democracy, on car taxation, and we have made tax reform without social democracy on business and entrepreneurial initiatives. At the beginning of 2018, we will also be making tax reforms in the two areas for which money has already been reserved, namely one billion kroner from job reform 1, which is going to reduce the tax on the lowest incomes, and the 2.5 billion. kr., which lies from the agreement for several years on the labour market, which is to go to reduce the tax on pension payments, so that there is greater gain by saving up to its own old age. So I am quite confident that the Danes will experience that the tax in Denmark goes one way, namely down, and it will help to make the Danish economy stronger forward. Does this mean that we have to make a new 2025 plan because we did not get through fully with the government's original tax proposal? No, it does not, because the 2025 plan is based on the initiatives already adopted. It is based on how the Danish economy looks with the things that had already been adopted at that time, and with the latest updates of the population composition, the expenditures, etc. It says that up to 2025 we will have a growing room for manoeuvre. We will be able to afford both to lower the tax on labour and to expand the service in the public sector, which is why this is a way forward which is still relevant and which is still suitable. What we did from the government in the 2025 plan was to show a way to how Denmark could become even stronger, even richer, even better prepared for the challenges of the future, and that is among other things. by increasing the supply of work. In the government's proposal, there are five ways to increase the supply of work. Some of them are easier than others. Some of them have proved difficult to agree to, but we are still pursuing away the possibilities of increasing labour supply by up to 55,000-60,000 people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132432	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132433	I think it is very positive that the Minister for Finance is actually starting by pointing out that we can work together broadly here in the Danish Parliament. I am, of course, sorry that the Finance Minister's government has chosen to go solo in some selected areas and not invited to broad negotiations. One of the things that can exemplify it is precisely the agreement for several years on the labour market, which has had to solve the first half of the challenge of interplay problems, a challenge that everyone recognises has been there, one had a Pension Commission which was unfortunately dropped but which nevertheless remains a challenge that needs to be solved, but which the Social Democratic Party was not invited to in the first place. We have succeeded in increasing tax revenue by 2.5 billion. It is only clear and sensible that this money must of course be returned to the employees so that it can be appropriate for them to save up for their own pension. It can't be different. It's a zero-sum game. From my side, I would just like to reiterate the message that the government should consider whether it would not be healthy and appropriate to create stable framework conditions in this area. In any case, I would like to make it clear from this that the Social Democratic Party would like to be involved in negotiations if the government is concerned about this. But now to the question, and not least to the Minister for Finance's outside reply: the truth is that when the government's plans for tax agreements have collapsed, it is very difficult to imagine how to achieve in terms of a job supply of 55,000-60,000 people. So realistic, sir. Minister for Finance, how much can we achieve in this respect, and is it not more realistic to start creating a new financial framework, including a new 2025 plan, which is not based on an increase in labour supply to that extent?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132636	Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132637	It is quite true that we have made good agreements together, and it is also the case that in a large number of areas, regardless of who is in government, a great many laws are adopted in this Parliament together. But our roads are parted in some areas. Among other things: the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has moved in the direction that we have introduced an integration benefit, which the Social Democratic Party has been opposed to. Therefore, it is also natural that the parties that have helped find the money in job reform 1 are also the ones that are helping to translate it. In the agreement for several years on the labour market there is also a change in the benefits of integration, a tightening up of the benefits of integration, and if you cannot take the first step, you cannot take the second step either. Therefore, there has also been no possibility of making an agreement that included the Social Democratic Party, because you were not involved in making the changes about the integration benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132729	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132731	But it is tactical and classical on the part of the Minister of Finance and the current government, that is to say, that we are trying to find some small corner so that we can say in a formalistic way that we do not have to invite the Social Democrats at all. It was far down the road exactly the same thing that happened with the business agreement. There were good, healthy and sensible negotiations back and forth, and then we were thrown out at the last minute classical. But that does not change the basic question that the Minister of Finance does not answer: is it realistic to have a target of an increase in labour supply of 55,000-60 000, which we can all see is not feasible when the government's plans have collapsed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132808	Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132809	First of all, I would just like to say that the Social Democrats chose to vote against the pension agreement, while the Radical Left, which was also not part of the agreement, chose to vote in favour, and then it sounds rather hollow that one would very much like to be part of a pension agreement. Because then you could have just voted in favour of the legislative proposal that was put to the vote, like for example. The Radical Left chose to do so. Let it go. In terms of economic policy in the future, our scope for manoeuvre in the 2025 plan is not dependent on making further reforms. If we make further reforms that increase the supply of work, the Danish economy will strengthen even more, and that is why we will continue along the five roads: we will get more young people more quickly through the training courses. Therefore, we will come up with a proposal for the SU reform later. This is one of the reasons why we have changed the rules so that, fortunately, more asylum seekers are now considered to be ready for the labour market. We get more asylum seekers into work, we make sure that more people stay a little longer on the labour market. what many years on the labour market are involved in. And then we should like those who are in employment to do more, and that is why I look forward to putting the tax a little bit down to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132917	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132918	So in other words, in order to translate what the Minister of Finance said in a few words here, we should not take it so seriously that there are 55,000-60,000 in increased labour supply, because it will not be implemented, and that will not change the room for manoeuvre that lies behind it. I can then confirm the latter part, which is why we can also read in the 2025 Social Democratic Plan that we are, of course, sticking to that. We have some other priorities than the government, but that is where the political disagreement is once again in Denmark. I think it may be a little strange to keep a figure on the supply of work, which we know is hardly going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132955	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117132957	The government will continue to work for a greater job offer in Denmark, for as then Minister for Employment Mette Frederiksen answered a question from the Folketing: The greater the job offer, the greater the employment. The fact is that the greater the employment in Denmark, the richer we get, the better we are equipped to cope with the challenges we have, both in relation to the private sector and employees and to the public sector. So the greater the supply of labour, the richer the communities we get. I hope the Social Democratic Party will remember that exactly as the then Minister for Employment replied.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133031	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question (pm. No. S 408) is addressed to the Minister for Finance by Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133040	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133042	Thank you. And I will read out the question: when the Minister has said in the past that the most important thing for the government is to respond to the shortage of labour by increasing labour supply, how seriously does the Minister consider that the current recruitment challenge is reaching only 1.3 per cent. of the companies that claim to search for people in vain have asked at the job center, the cashier and the union?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133103	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133104	This is actually serious, and it is because what we are hearing is that more and more companies are having difficulty finding the right workforce and that there are more companies that have either had to say no to orders or had to re-prioritize their investment strategy and place the order outside their borders in order to cope with it. So, what does that mean for the job recruitment? It is true that if you take those who have applied for both jobnet.dk and in the job centre and the union, you are down to what is called 1.3 per cent. However, according to STAR's study, if you look at the recruitment processes, 52 per cent have used jobnet.dk, 26 per cent have used the job centre, and 9 per cent have contacted the a-box or the union. The figure used by the questioner here covers those who have brought in all three. As far as I am concerned, it is of course important that companies have as easily as possible by seeking employees and that it is possible for them to be able to go in one place. I really hope that jobnet.dk will be the place they can use, i.e. that it will be such a unifying place. Because I think we all have an interest in unemployed people getting into employment as soon as possible, and that is what they do best if it is easy for companies to look for them. And that is why most companies today have become accustomed to using networks, employees' contacts, unsolicited applications, or more than half of them are • jobnet.dk as the path they have to seek new employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133251	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133253	Thank you for your answer. But if we take the finance minister's figures, it's still only half off if we look at jobnet.dk. But it is a little bit worrying that only about a quarter have used the job centres and under 10%. has used the trade unions. That is an expression of the fact that you do not use the opportunities that exist if you have recruitment problems. I just have to say that's problematic with my eyes. Nevertheless, I must say that I do not think I hear such a very specific instruction from the Minister for Finance in relation to this issue. And when the Minister says that it is a very, very important issue for the government that we need to increase the supply of labour, then I have to ask whether it is then more an expression of such a political/ideological attitude than it is a question of labour supply. In fact, even with the figures presented here by the Minister of Finance, only about a quarter of companies have applied through the job centre and under 10% have approached the trade unions. Then the Minister must acknowledge that it is a problem that we do not use them, what should we say, channels that exist and that have been set up by municipalities and states, so that it can actually be easier to recruit. So I would like to ask: when the Minister maintains that this is a very, very big problem and that it is an important task for the government, is it more an expression of such a political/ideological attitude that the supply of labour must be increased at all costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133427	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133428	This is actually an expression of my agreement with the then Minister for Employment, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, on the question that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht stated earlier that when you get a larger job offer, it will result in a higher employment. In the old days, you had the idea that the amount of work in Denmark was constant; you just had to divide it into smaller bites, so everyone got a little to do. You've found that out wrong. On the contrary, increasing labour supply will in the long term lead to an increase in employment. And increased employment provides a richer society. That is why I agree with the then Minister for Employment, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, that we increase labour supply, we increase employment, and then we increase prosperity in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133509	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133510	I believe that we are all interested in increasing employment in Denmark. Perhaps what divides the waters is that when we talk about demand, we have to agree that there is no general demand. There are some bottleneck problems and they are largely due to the lack of skilled labour. We lack what to say about some key people in companies to be able to increase their production and expand their production. I would just like to ask the Minister how this is connected with the fact that this government is, in fact, constantly cutting back on those training courses which should actually ensure that we have more skilled labour and that we might develop skills for the unskilled workforce.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133554	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133555	In other words, if we look at the figures, the number of unsuccessful recruitments in autumn 2017 is more than twice as large as the number of unsuccessful recruitments in autumn 2012. So there is an increasing tendency for more and more companies to seek in vain. I also owe it to say that I urge all companies to search through all channels when they lack employees, whether it is the job centre or the a-box, the union or jobnet.dk. I really hope that we can do jobnet.dk so strongly that it is easiest for companies to apply there. When I am asked how we are going to strengthen this, it is actually part of the government's policy that we will also strengthen our vocational schools. That is why, in addition to the efficiency we expect everyone to be able to deliver, we have promised 170 million. kr. in a quality pool for vocational schools this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133648	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133650	First of all, I would just like to say that it is fine to say that there are some who have sought in vain, but it is clear that if you look for the wrong places and not all the places where there are opportunities, it would be like going to a pharmacy to find out if I could buy some cigarettes, and then I would probably go in vain. So you can't use that as an argument. But in relation to the vocational schools, it is true that 170 million have been given. kr. extra in a quality development pool. But the Minister must acknowledge that by 2%. saving year after year, then battling the 170 million. kr. I mean, not much extra. That is why we are faced with a situation in which, on the one hand, we would like to have more skilled labour, but, on the other hand, we are actually making opportunities for vocational schools to train these people less and less.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133729	Here you go, last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133730	There are two things in it. I am aware that the way in which recruitment is broken down in vain is constantly changing governments. So at the time, there was another government, it was precisely the same and was pleased that there were fewer unsuccessful recruitments. Then we must also recognise that, when the figure is increasing, we have a growing problem. It is not only skilled labour that we need. We can also see that there is a shortage of labour in the services sector. We can see that there is a shortage of labour in industry. Therefore, it is widely across the spectrum that we need to increase the amount of our labour force if we are not to risk one of two things: that companies cannot hire the employees they need or that we risk increasing wage pressure in Denmark. And we saw, at the end of 2007 and 2008, how increasing wage pressures set themselves in a downward spiral that hit those who had the most difficulty entering the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133818	Thank you, and that was the end of the question. Then there is a new question (pm. No. S 391), and this is for the Minister for the Environment and Food, by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133826	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133831	Thank you, Madam President. The question is: how does the Minister himself feel about making effective coastal protection after an alternative coastal protection was created at Lønstrup?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133844	Thank you, President. Thank you for the question. It's going amazingly well. This government, together with the Danish People's Party, has introduced legislation in the area of coastal protection, which has not been seen in recent times. Whether the Social Democrats will support it will be exciting to see, but all that, sir. Bjarne Laustsen has been shouting in recent months, after all, is what the government is delivering. So, in mr. Bjarne Laustsen's optics must be extremely satisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117133914	Last year, the coastal analysis came out on the basis that the previous government wanted to identify where the problems are greatest, and it pointed out that in North Jutland it is in Hjørring Municipality, and there are a few northern Zealand municipalities, and then there are ten low-lying areas. The Committee on the Environment and Food went on an inspection tour and it barely received the support of the Coast Directorate and we also held a hearing here in the Danish Parliament, which is why we were ready to get to grips with it. What the government has done and the minister has been in charge of is to wipe off responsibility only on the landowners and on the municipalities. Because KL came and wanted to have more influence because they think that the Coast Directorate just said no, no and again no all the time. And we've heard that a lot of times. So when the Minister went to Hjørring, and I myself attended the meeting, the Minister told me that it was now getting started. What is it that has got off to, besides the fact that responsibility has been wiped off on the pilots and the municipality? Unfortunately, we saw some who felt compelled to take matters into their own hands, because their houses were about to fall into the sea. These are 36 houses, as far as I have just counted out here, which have already become the prey of the sea in recent years, because no proper and effective coastal protection has been created. If I share that view with the Minister for the Environment, and I think I have heard that before that, that something should be done, then I would like to ask: who should do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134040	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134042	Thank you, President. The fact that the houses are falling into the sea is, of course, a huge declaration of bankruptcy for Mr. Bjarne Laustsen himself. Because that is an example of Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, when the then government was sitting from 2011 to 2015, nothing was done about this area and I repeat: nothing. So, I can understand if the ears are red on Mr. Knox. Bjarne Laustsen with regard to North Jutland and this case. But what is reality? The reality is that the Danish People's Party and the government have taken a huge responsibility for this. We changed the legislation so that citizens now have the opportunity to make tough coastal protection, in some places combined with sand-feeding. Is it still the citizens' responsibility? Yes, it is, but now we are expanding the toolbox incredibly, so that citizens get more tools. And then, sir... After all, Bjarne Laustsen gives all the funding he wants if he thinks it should not be the responsibility of the citizens. The Social Democrats can then present that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134130	I doubt that the Minister for the Environment will be able to give a single example of what has happened in relation to coastal protection on the basis of government initiatives. What has happened is that responsibility has been wiped out on the municipalities and on the landowners. There hasn't been a single permit since that time. It is as difficult as it was before; one has just placed the responsibility to do it somewhere else. But there will be no coast protection unless you have the economy to do so. There are many pilots who do not have the economy to do so, and there are municipalities that have too much responsibility in relation to the challenge there is. There are also municipalities in the country that do not need to make any coast protection because they have no coast. So it is also a question of creating a more solidarity solution. And I don't see that the government has suggested that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134214	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134215	Thank you, President. Well, sir. After all, Bjarne Laustsen speaks directly against better knowledge, Mr. Bjarne Laustsen knows that it has just passed through the Folketing and that of course no new coastal protection has been introduced in the past six months before it has been adopted in the Folketing. It's just giving itself up. That is why it is rather a polemical discussion that we are standing and having when Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, on the one hand, wants something to happen and, on the other hand, knows that it is going through the Folketing. Once this has come through the Folketing, citizens will have increased rights, and it is the citizens themselves who are paying. And that is the basic principle of Danish policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134245	Thank you. Let me make a final remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134246	It's sloppy talk and cheap port wine. There has not yet been a single coastal protection project based on all the initiatives that the Minister is talking about. And he knows that very well. He's just hastened to take responsibility away from the Coast Directorate and tell the municipalities it's theirs. What this must be about is the creation of a coherent policy on coastal protection. It should not just be a question of who can afford to make it, because we know very well that if something is done, it can cause a bigger problem with the neighbour because of shelter erosion. That is why, when I have talked about it in the past, I have called for the government to take more overall responsibility for having a policy on coastal protection. And that is where I think both the landowners, the municipalities and the state should be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134328	Thank you. And the last reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134329	Thank you. I don't know if it's sir. Bjarne Laustsen, who's been drinking cheap port, 'cause it's going all the way around his head. Bjarne Laustsen. So, the bottom line is that citizens will have more opportunities for tough coastal protection. It is the case that the guiding role moves from the Coastal Directorate, which will be indicative, while at the same time giving the municipality the competence. This has nothing to do with responsibility. This is about more opportunities for some citizens that it has been in demand for decades. Mr. Bjarne Laustsen well, and I also see that he is smiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134358	Thank you. And then the question is closed. There is a new question for the Minister for the Environment and Food from Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134407	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134408	Thank you. Will the Minister call for negotiations on a new distribution policy so that the State can contribute much more financially to the coast protection from Limfjorden to Skagens Gren?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134420	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134421	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the question. It is at least the case that the joint agreement that the state has with a number of municipalities in the country, where coastal protection is financed, must be renegotiated in 2018, and we will. So if the question is whether I want to renegotiate the coastal agreement or the joint agreement, then the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134444	I think that the Minister has been busy sitting on his hands just wiping off the responsibility of the municipalities and putting away responsibility. Here you have an agreement where the state has a role. A coastal analysis has been carried out which indicates that the municipality of Hjørring is badly affected, along with a few other municipalities and some other areas. Nothing happens. The minister sits on his hands and says: we shall have to look at that at that time. There is no commitment whatsoever, on the contrary. The state must contribute less and less to this area. I assume that the Minister shares the risk assessments that lie in the coastal analysis, i.e. the challenges that each municipality has. Could it not then give the minister - now that we spend a lot of money from Nymindegab up to Limfjorden, but nothing the other way, perhaps only 2-3 million. DKK, while it is 100 million. kr. on the second piece of background to say: Should we not get started a little faster and ask the conciliation parties whether they will help to look a little more at the northern coastlines that are challenged?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134543	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134545	Thank you, President. I like it very much when sir... Bjarne Laustsen says that the Minister is sitting on his hands when, as a minister with the Danish People's Party and the other government, I have made the biggest change to the whole coast protection law. I don't remember if Mr. Cole... Bjarne Laustsen has been a member of the Folketing for 17 years or how and how it is, but at least there have been many years when it could have changed here. The coastal agreement dates back to the early 1980s, but Mr. Bjarne Laustsen has not been able to get his own party on anything. That is why we have to stand by and listen to the fact that we are sitting on our hands, that is to say, when we are just implementing the greatest amendment of the law. Then we come to the coastal agreement or the joint agreement, which will be renegotiated later in 2018, and what it will look like, of course, we will look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134622	Here you go, sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134623	It sounds as if the Minister knows as little about Members' seniority as he knows about coastal protection and the state's responsibility in this. After all, this is about a political responsibility, it is about the state having made an agreement sometime in its time, and then the question is whether there is a basis for changing it. After all, the other day, the Directorate of the Coast presented evidence that the last few years have gone 2 metres each year. It's more than ever before. So there is a historical basis for putting a hook on here and saying, 'Well, why don't we sit down and move it forward?' If there is a will and you think that we should make tough coastal protection and that the state should contribute, should we not look at making a different distribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134706	Thank you, President. At any rate, there is a new basis for discussion, namely precisely the coastal analysis that has come, in which you can see where there are some characteristics around the country that are exposed to the same weather challenge as parts of the Jutland West Coast, for example. And it is clear that the joint agreement to be negotiated during 2018 will, of course, look into what the coastal analysis has provided from new information. We shall see when we come to the negotiations. But I'm very excited to see how much money Mr. Bjarne Laustsen will join us when he may have to represent the Social Democratic Party in the exciting debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134737	Now I am very excited to hear the Minister for the Environment what he thinks, because if he is a minister at the time when negotiations are to be convened, then one must expect the government to come up with a proposal. That is why I would like to ask you today: is it the intention of the government and the Minister for the Environment to ensure that more money is made available to the area via the state? This may be true of both this plan here, but it is also a question of providing new funds so that we can make proper coastal protection where decisions and responsibilities do not just lie with the individual landowner and the individual municipality. For there are also other sections.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134813	Last answer from the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134814	Thank you for that, President. At least I can reassure Mr. Bjarne Laustsen says there's gonna be a play from the government. What the economy looks like and what the government is up to, we will wait for in excitement. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen knows that's how the game rules are.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134827	Thank you. And that concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for the Environment and Food by Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134837	Thank you, Mr President. I will read out the question: what measures does the Minister think are needed to ensure that private people do not resort to illegal solutions to implement coastal protection, as has been seen in Lønstrup in North Jutland, and so few municipalities do not have responsibility for coastal protection themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117134858	Thank you, President. And thank you to the questioner for giving me the opportunity to explain the Government's initiatives in the area of coastal protection. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have launched a number of different initiatives, all of which aim to create a better framework for establishing coastal protection. The Government has put forward a draft law amending the objective of the coastal protection law so that citizens and municipalities will have greater freedom to choose the coastal protection method themselves. This also applies to the protection of the coast with stones if it does not push the problem on to the neighbour. The draft law is expected to be adopted tomorrow, when S has indicated that it will vote in favour of its adoption. Citizens must be able to sleep safely at night, and therefore it is not reasonable for homeowners to be allowed coastal protection only when the threat from the sea is very close, and therefore we are now removing the so-called 25-year criterion in this legislative amendment, so that it is more up to each homeowner to decide for himself when to take action with coastal protection. In addition to providing more opportunities for coastal protection, it must also be easier and quicker to apply for authorisation. Therefore, the government will bring together the task of granting permission for coastal protection in the municipalities, and the applicants will thus have one entrance, namely the local municipality, when they will have to deal with a case in the future. Citizens should not be trapped in a slow process where more authorities have to wait for each other and where decisions can be complained of innumerable times in the process, each of which may delay the establishment of necessary and important coastal protection. Those initiatives will be contained in a legislative proposal which has been in consultation and which I expect to be able to present at the end of February. The government has set up a travel team to guide municipalities on flood prevention and erosion prevention and on inter-municipal holistic solutions. As a follow-up to the coastal analysis mentioned above and as part of the government's agreement with KL on the economy of the municipalities, indicative contribution distribution models are being developed for 2018 and developed which can be used for decision on the allocation of costs for coastal protection projects. Finally, there is the state risk analysis to look at how our coastal erosion and the like are developing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135059	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135101	Thank you, Minister. After all, I also had the opportunity to sit and listen when the Minister gave his reply to Mr Seligman. Bjarne Laustsen, and it has to be said that the Minister does not put his light under a bushel in order to highlight how amazingly good what the government is doing. I cannot help thinking, and I think that many people in North Jutland think the same thing, that if what the government is implementing is now so furiously good and there are good elements, that is also why we support it. However, it is even strange that you see how people in Lønstrup resort to vigilanteism to such an extent. During the Christmas days, there were citizens who, by means of bulldozers, rolled stones and other things onto the beach, which, according to the local authorities, has a direct devastating effect on coastal protection. What we need to be aware of is that, as the Minister himself suggests, making coastal protection with stones or other can have the negative effect of moving the problem elsewhere. So the very best thing to do is to have a continuous and continuous sand feeding. There we are at the heart of the problem, as Mr. Bjarne Lausten also asked about several times about the government, in addition to having a bill that offers some opportunities, and well for it, has a plan for a more reasonable financing of this coastal protection effort that must be done with continuous sand feeding and other. So it is not a single municipality that has to stand for it, such as. Hjørring Municipality, which has one of the longest coastlines and has the entire funding of this alone. Would it not be possible to have this financed a little more in solidarity? For it is citizens from all over the country who use the fantastic beaches that are in Hjørring Municipality. So I would like the Minister, rather than just highlighting his bill, which offers some small opportunities, to answer this issue of funding as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135312	Thank you, President. Well, the bill not only offers small opportunities, it offers enormous opportunities, and that is why it is a very good proposal, and it is good that the Social Democracy also supports the work that the government and the Danish People's Party have done over recent months. It is the case that you can never defend vigilante like what has happened in North Jutland never. Can we then understand that there are citizens who may be worried and sad to see what is at risk of happening around their house? Yeah, you can understand that, but it just can't lead to vigilante. And what's the reality up there? It is, of course, that one has had the opportunity to sandfeed for a long time, but has not wanted to do so. Then there is also the fact that on a part of that stretch there are Natura 2000 areas where you cannot just act because there is nature protection in relation to them, and therefore you must have looked at an overall solution. That is also why the coastal analysis says that there are some places in the country where there are today the same challenges of erosion as on the west coast of Jutland, which must be taken into account, and we will then look at that, in other words, what the future will look like in terms of the state commitment on the day we are negotiating a joint agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135414	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135415	Again, I am afraid that the Minister overestimates the effect of his own proposal, but of course he must have a cadeau for what has been done. I still do not think that the Minister is answering this precisely, as to whether or not we can do something, so that the individual municipality is not on the whole bill itself. Can we make more solidarity funding for this, so that it is not Hjørring Municipality that has this long coastline that has to pay for itself, but that we can all help to pay for it, because we use the magnificent beaches that are there. Finally, I would like to put a question to the Commission. 2: Can we do anything more so that one can use purified sand from ports and such things to sandfeed with?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135454	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135456	Thank you, President. But the point about solidarity in which money may be spent is something that will be looked at in the negotiation of the joint agreement. The government has rejected the idea of creating a coastal fund which has been proposed in the Folketing. We have rejected this, we continue to do so. We believe that it is the citizen's job to protect his own property, and at the same time we must look at where the obligations of the state should be when the new joint agreement is implemented after it has been negotiated. Whether you can use sand from purified harbours and the like, it will probably be a little too technical to go into here, but, so, personally, I would like us to use our resources sensibly... it is our circular economy... and if you can use sand without there being any environmental impact and anything else, then I should not be wise to do so; but I am not personally opposed to doing so if there is good evidence and it is environmentally sound to act on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135552	Here you go for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135553	Well, thank you for the Minister's positive and constructive response to the use of purified sand. It is clear that the sand that is being used must be in order. There are some environmental concerns. But I would like to ask more about that, because it seems that the Minister is positive that way around. Then the Minister will actually make a concession. The minister says the government is rejecting this with a foundation. So you will not be able to finance this solidarity; it is the individual citizen who has to pay. But does the Minister not see a point in the fact that we have some magnificent beaches, some fantastic natural areas that we all enjoy? We have to be careful about that. It's not just the individual landowner who benefits from this. It's all of us who come for a walk with our dog or shower or something else. Aren't we all going to support this? Could we not have a solidarity fund in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135635	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135637	Thank you, President. Well, the government's position is that it's the citizen who pays to protect his own property. It is a principle that has been in force for years, and we are not going to change that. However, what will be the opportunity to negotiate will be the framework for the state's commitment when the joint agreement is to be renegotiated during 2018 and that will be looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135658	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs by Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135706	Here you go for a reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135708	Thank you, President. The question is: what does the Minister think of up to 61 per cent? by violence-stricken women cannot be accommodated in shelters, as new Social Protection Agency figures have shown, as expressed in TV 2/Lorry on 24 December 2017, and what does the Minister intend to do to resolve the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135729	Thank you and thank you for the question. I know that this is an area that really means a lot to Mrs Yildiz Akdogan. I would like to start by saying quite clearly that when a woman is subjected to violence at home, I believe that as a society we have a clear responsibility to offer both a safe alternative and also support to get out of that situation, and that is why the municipalities also have a legal obligation to ensure that there is help for women affected by violence. The municipality must provide temporary accommodation for women who have been subjected to violence, threats of violence or similar crisis in relation to family or social relationships. Then, of course, there may be a special focus on the crisis centre to which women are addressed, especially in the larger cities. However, if the centre to which the woman is addressed is admitted, she should be referred to another crisis centre, which therefore has its place, even if it is a little further away from the home of the woman. This is precisely the approach from the woman to the crisis center that the new figures from the Social Protection Agency say something about. But they don't say, and I think that's also important to make sure that women are rejected or that they can't be accommodated in a shelter. The same is true of the announcement by the organisations in this area. There is a high occupancy in the metropolitan area, but they do not find that there is full space at all centres, so they still have the opportunity to refer to another centre where there is room for women. That is why, of course, it is also important for me to keep up with developments in this area in order to see if we can always be better at having the correct basis for figures. It is also crucial that we have the knowledge we need to make solutions instead of groping blindly. Then it is also clear that we have the new unit against violence in close relationships, i.e. Lives Without Violence, which was adopted with the 2017 rate pool, which is also this electronic overview, where you can make better use of the seats than you have been able to do up to now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135940	Thank you. Here's the questioner, Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117135942	Thank you. That is true when the Minister says that this is an area that is very much in my hands. It does, because it is some of the most vulnerable, some of the most vulnerable groups we are dealing with, that is, women trying to get away from a violent relationship. Taking the first step and leaving a violent home is by no means an easy decision, and therefore it is all the more a huge defeat if the woman in question, who may have children, gets a refusal. For it may well be that the average occupancy rate is high, but it is an average percentage. I asked a little about yesterday just to find out what it looked like with vacant seats, and it is actually the case that the capital is extremely pressured. Yesterday, there was only one place in the entire metropolitan area, and it was actually in the Women's Home at Hungtvej. I do not know what the situation is now, but it is just to indicate that the problem is much more urgent than that it can just be referred to a high stocking rate. That is why I would also like the Minister to try to take it up to a higher level. Because we can agree that, according to section 109 of the Service Act, if I do not remember wrongly, it is the responsibility of the municipalities to help, but what happens when there is no room, and when a woman who leaves a violent home, including children, cannot get the help she needs? Imagine going back to a violent home. The Minister merely referred to a pool that we have adopted together among the pool parties, but I would really like to hear the Minister: what does the Minister intend to do to resolve the problem? Does the Minister have a concrete solution in terms of how we can counteract the pressure there is? Because the pressure is mainly in January and August, and right now there is enormous pressure on the crisis centres in the metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140133	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140134	It is, of course, absolutely crucial about what we agreed last year with the pool agreement, the new entity that is about living without violence, that we get a better overview of those seats. Of course. We must also be quite honest there and say that that list of seats was perhaps not good enough, and that is why funds were allocated at the time. I would also like to say that this can be a challenge in the large cities where women also typically have a slightly longer stay, because it can be difficult to get out and find accommodation. We are therefore very, very aware of this, and we are in fact in close cooperation with the municipalities to break down the barriers that are in relation to providing cheap housing in the general sector. It must be cheap accommodation where there is also room to have children at the same time. So we are in a very, very close dialogue with KL about that. Then there are free municipalities where collective communities can be created for two single women with children who have been at the crisis centre. It's also an option.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140236	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140238	Thank you. I think it is very good that the Minister is in dialogue with the KL. But it is some women and some mothers who are suffering violence who need help here and now, and the pressure is quite great here in January. Too many families choose to let Christmas vacation pass, and then you make the big decision to choose to leave a violent relationship, so I think: can you do anything other than have a dialogue with KL? Because, as I said, the situation is so urgent and yesterday there was only one place in the entire metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140315	No woman should go back to a man who is violent. That's also why you have to see this overview so that, even though there may not be any place in the place where the woman seeks in the first place, there may well be a place at another crisis center. Then, of course, I am fully aware that we must try to establish the right links to the best possible extent, so that women who have children, for example, are not referred to a place that is really, really far away, but that it is close and that it is close to the children's school. That is precisely why we have worked hard to improve the data base so that we always have an overview of the number of places, so that no woman goes in vain and therefore has to go back to a violent man.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140412	But the overview tells us precisely that there is no room, Minister. That just shows that 61 per cent. A refusal was made, and yesterday, as I said, there was only one seat in the entire metropolitan area. Considering that it is therefore January, where most people choose to leave a violent home... some also with children... I just don't think the answer is enough. In other words, does the Minister not have another solution but to refer to some dialogue and to some figures and studies?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140446	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140447	It is very important to say that the municipalities have a legal task here. And then I think it is also a question of interpreting the figures correctly. Because if you have the impression that 61 percent. If the women who are addressing do not get a place at a shelter, that is not correct. Then this alone will indicate that there may be no place in a particular crisis centre, but that is why women can be offered a stay at another crisis centre. So you shouldn't take the 61 percent. as an indication that there are 61 per cent. of women, who have to go back to a violent partner, a violent man. Because that is not the case. But then there will be something else that the woman will be offered if there is no place in the first place where you turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140532	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Education by Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140539	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140547	Thank you. The question is this: how does the Minister feel about the government's so-called re-priority contribution in the field of education making significant savings of more than 1 billion? kr. in 2021 at the vocational schools that we would otherwise like more young people to attend?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140608	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140609	Thank you. From 2016, education, including vocational training, is subject to the 2% re-prioritisation contribution. annually in line with other state operating areas. It is necessary to continuously focus on effective task solving and possible productivity gains across the whole state. I am convinced that the tasks can be solved in all parts of the public sector, including in the field of education. I admit that this is not an easy task. Everyone who has had a management task in improving the efficiency of private or public services knows how difficult it can be, especially for vocational schools, which are facing some particular challenges right now. The main challenge facing vocational training is that too few young people choose vocational training. It's going through in the school economy. The fundamental challenge is the lack of search and approach to vocational training, and we must resolve this in cooperation with the schools. The problem is, among other things, that many pupils do not have enough knowledge of different types of craftsmanship in primary school, and perhaps they do not know that a skilled training course opens doors to becoming an independent entrepreneur or to continue to study. It is important that we reverse developments and encourage more young people to apply to vocational training. This is precisely why the government and the Danish People's Party have agreed in the 2018 Finance Act to follow developments in the field of vocational training closely. Since the reform of vocational training, we have taken a number of initiatives to strengthen the area. Several initiatives have been agreed, such as: more internships under the tripartite agreement, a reform of the preparatory services, a practical training qualification assessment in the primary school and stricter admission requirements in the secondary school reform. We will take stock during the first half of 2018 in order to assess whether further initiatives are needed to strengthen vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140800	Thank you, and that is the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117140801	Thank you for your answer. I am, of course, very pleased to hear that we are going to follow the area and that we are going to take initiatives, because when we look at the number of craftsmen we will probably be missing in a few years' time, we are talking about as much as 60 000. So there is every reason why we should strengthen vocational training rather than weaken the area that the government is doing with its re-priority contribution. I also listen and hear that the Minister is focusing on the reform of primary schools, which is now running on its fourth year. After all, we fully agree that it is very good for pupils in primary and lower secondary schools to receive application-oriented education and that practice and the craft sector are given priority because we need a new culture in this area. But I also think it must be quite obvious to everyone that this 2% re-priority contribution, which affects our educational institutions, including vocational schools, has a massive impact on the fact that schools cannot make it attractive for young people to seek vocational schools. We are getting these days when the Finance Act for 2018 really comes up with schools, for citizens, etc., also massive reactions in this area. It will also have massive consequences in relation to the issue of a Denmark in balance and in relation to rural areas that vocational schools in our rural areas are experiencing difficult economic conditions. So it is not enough just to monitor and see if there are bets to be made. This is a 2% re-prioritization contribution. is simply a massive burden on our educational institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141005	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141006	When we in the government generally have a re-priority contribution, it is because we want to take care of the citizens' money. Having said that, we have a particular interest in strengthening vocational training. That is why we are taking a number of steps. I have also said that I will not let go of vocational training until we have turned the tide before more young people than today opt for vocational training. This is why we have started discussions in the public school circle in order to strengthen practice and the craft sector in training. So that is what I referred to in my speech. These were the negotiations which have started in order to strengthen the real craft sector in education, which therefore does not have an independent status today, and fortunately there are many different proposals from the parties with a great deal of support for taking some action there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141100	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141101	In isolation, however, it is quite good to strengthen the craft trades in primary education and to look at how to make the teaching more user-oriented. But here and now, this is a priority contribution, which saves 1 billion. kr. in the country's vocational schools towards 2021, simply catastrophic. The other day I was at a conference at AMU-West in Esbjerg, and a large number of people from the area's companies, business councils, job centres and organisations participated in this conference. In South-West Jutland, as in the rest of the country, there is a shortage of labour in many industries, and there will be a shortage of craftsmen again, we are talking about 60,000 in the coming years. And all of these people who took part in the conference say equally to us as politicians that it is a question of investing in education, and it is also a question of investing targetedly in vocational schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141203	We must strengthen the quality of vocational training, but there is also a need, one might say, for a change of style in how we communicate to young people. Because it is true that there is a shortage of skilled workers. We, as politicians, know that as buyers. However, when we talk to young people, we have to communicate about the quality of education and training about the young life you can live there and the opportunities that are there. And I would just like to mention one small initiative we have put in the lake, which is called "Know the subjects," which is about training about the craftsmanship and the pride that lies therein. This initiative has been launched together with the Ministry of Culture. The point is that we must ensure that professional pride is also cultivated in the sector, which will act as a magnet for young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141258	Thank you. The last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141300	But I fully agree that it is really important that we get vocational training counted up. And it is also really important that until the pupils get out of primary school and have a new culture of vocational training and the use-oriented and craftsmanship in general, we should be able to do something here and now. And here and now this re-priority contribution is simply a heavy burden on vocational schools. It will be absolutely crucial for our vocational schools and for development, both in cities and in rural areas, that we have the good vocational schools and educational institutions. We are going to Denmark, among others. For a living, we have skilled skilled workers. So I would just like to call, as the last one here, for a change of priorities in the years to come. Yes, thank you! ) in the Finance Act, it could be important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141356	We should not take advantage of the fact that the President is concerned about sneezing! I'm sorry). Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141401	That has been noted. After all, it is the privilege of being in opposition that we can, what I have to say, demand more of everything, and what is about to be in government is that we also have to give priority to resources and ensure that citizens' money is used as precisely as possible. And that is exactly what the challenge is. This is among other things. the parents of the young people who attend vocational schools, who pay a high tax, the highest in the OECD, and it is essential for us as a government in general to ensure that there is a balance in things, that we have good education, but that expenditure does not run off in general in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141446	Thank you. And that concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing by Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141454	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141457	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that the figures for the level of education used up to now in the lists of so-called ghetto areas and thus also the designations of the so-called ghetto areas have not been true, cf. Economic Weekly Letter for the Public Sector on 7 December 2017, where the Minister has been referred to to acknowledge that the levels of education have been incorrect, and does the Minister consider that the lists have not been true in terms of the level of education of residents for several years?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141535	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141536	Thank you for the question. No, I do not agree that the figures used so far to illustrate the level of education in the vulnerable housing areas in the ghetto list have not been true, either in relation to the latest or previous lists, where the training criterion has been included. I have been through my statements and answers here and I do not think I should have said that the figures we have used in the ghetto list have been wrong. It is true that Denmark's Statistics has updated data for immigrant education, and it is true that there are now fewer immigrants registered with uninformed education. It is also true that it would mean a decrease in the number of ghetto areas if these figures were used uncritically. But there are several good reasons why we can't just do that. Firstly, there will be a break in data which makes it difficult to follow developments in the ghetto regions. Secondly, 63 per cent. of the updated information based on an estimate based on information that is largely self-reported and undocumented. It is data that according to Statistics Denmark has second priority. They can be used as filling data to give a complete statistical picture across the country. However, they are less suitable as personal data in composite data sets such as: the ghetto list, where the characteristics of persons are important. In addition, I would like to make it clear that the education criterion is intended to show educational challenges, and whether a person does not have an education or does not have an education that cannot be used in Denmark, that is a problem. So I do not agree that the new training figures give a more accurate picture. Finally, the ghetto criteria have been introduced by law, and if they are to be changed, it must be negotiated by the parties and decided in the Folketing. I believe that the discussion here shows that we need to think carefully before we change anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141735	Here you go. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141737	Well then, it has to be said that the Minister is well pleased with using wrong figures, and I think that is really a pity. If you look at the figures that were on the list of vulnerable residential areas from last year, you have to believe that someone has looked deep into the figures and come to the conclusion that there were probably 13 out of the 25 areas from 2016 that should not be on the list. Now we have some figures for 2017, and if we look at the educational background for the residents, it could be up to 14 out of 22 areas, which should not actually be on the list if we had dared to use the correct information about the level of education. Then the minister says that it would, like, be a break if you started using the new statistics. I do not think that is right, because if you look at the Rockwool Foundation's review of it, you will see that, in this way, they describe a number of things about their method, and they say that, with regard to the figures you had for immigrants who had migrated before 2004, half of the figures were based on something quite exact, and 50%. of the information was thus estimated. It is, of course, the same method as one has in itself, if it is the case that one dares to use the new information. After all, I think it is extremely important to help people who need help, and that is why it is not because I want to neglect that there may be residential areas where there are problems. I also recognise that we in Denmark have been far too poor to integrate people and have also been too poor to use the education they actually have. That is why I think it is extremely important that we build our efforts on correct data. I am disappointed that the Minister is not suggesting that practice should be changed, because then we can go further year after year and not have correct information. Can the Minister not see that there is something wrong in not wanting to update your data when you have them? After all, it is the Minister himself who drew attention to it in a footnote to his list of so-called ghetto areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141942	Here you go. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117141944	After all, the Ghetto criteria are both political and factual. They have a factual basis in some data, but they are politically elected in that they believe there is a problem, and then they say that when so many people do not have an education in an area, it is one of the criteria that it is a ghetto. The situation in those areas has not changed, which means that if data change and if we think that data should be included, then it may be that politicians want to change the criteria. They may want to move the percentage up or down or whatever. So this cannot be seen independently of a political debate, and that is why we must have a political debate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142027	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142028	Okay. I understand that the Minister is looking forward to a political examination of whether to change the criteria and whether to use the data you have. I find that gratifying. But I do not see why this has not already been done by the list published in December. There you had the opportunity, because you had seen new data. I also think it would be reasonable for the Minister to have produced two lists. There is nothing wrong with the Minister making two lists. Whoever I think should be made by law could be more right-wing if new data were used.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142102	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142103	But I do not think the new data is very accurate, for what the data should show. They must show whether there is a problem in an area with too few people having a qualification to participate in the labour market in Denmark. And the data that has now been added does not show what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen says that many more have a qualifying education in Denmark. They are self-reported; people have themselves told about what education they have from home. And there is no connection with whether these programmes can be used in Denmark. So that's why the new data is not on the list.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142136	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142137	Yeah, as I've been told, there's actually 37 percent. of the information that has actually been collected and the rest has then been estimated. This means that these people have been asked if they have an education, and they have answered that question. And it is possible that in their escape from some war-torn country they have not got all their papers with them, and therefore there may be some who cannot prove that they have that education. You can also imagine that there are some who are not completely honest. That cannot be rejected. But I think it is far better to start from what people say they have worked with. Can't the Minister see an advantage in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142211	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142212	I see no advantage in anything other than that if we are to determine whether in a given residential area there is a problem with people not having a qualification to be part of the labour market in Denmark • then omits to have information about what courses they have received in their country of origin, which may not have any value whatsoever in Denmark. This is the decisive factor, i.e. whether one's education has a value in Denmark. If you say that you have been trained as a veterinarian in Iran, or whatever it may be, but it does not give the necessary permissions to operate as a veterinarian in Denmark, what should we use that information for?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142249	Here you go. The questioner. No, I'm sorry, it's over. It's my fault. The next question is to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing by Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142305	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142307	Thank you. The next question is: why will the Minister not indicate which of the 22 residential areas are on the government's so-called list of ghetto areas per year? 1 December 2017, which would not be on the list if the latest surveys of immigrant education for immigrants were transferred since 2004, which the Rockwool Foundation Research Unit and Statistics Denmark have carried out, were used to draw up a more accurate list of the vulnerable residential areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142339	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142341	Thank you for the question. Firstly, because I do not believe that the new data are appropriate to identify the educational policy challenges in the vulnerable residential areas. I have already explained in my written answer to S 205 and in my answer to Question S 409 just now the challenges associated with the new figures. Although the new figures record fewer immigrants with uninformed education and hence fewer ghetto areas, the reality of the ghetto regions has not changed. There are still immigrants whose education cannot be used to move forward in the Danish education system or in the Danish labour market. So I do not agree with the premise that the new figures will give a more accurate ghetto list. Secondly, the ghetto criteria have been adopted by the Folketing. A modified training criterion will therefore also have to be decided by the Folketing before we can use it. As I have explained, there are a number of implications arising from the new figures. This means that before we can make a decision on how to measure training in ghetto areas in the future, we need to look at how the information is collected and what the new figures actually show. Before there has been a political discussion and before a decision has been taken in the Folketing, it would not be right to publish a new ghetto list on the basis of new data. We have a ghetto list this year, drawn up on a methodical and professionally correct basis, based on a majority decision in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142503	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142506	I think it is essential to bear in mind that if an area is declared to be a ghetto area and it is actually an area that is in progress and that has made a lot of efforts, and yet, because of the fact that you do not want to use up-to-date data, it ends up being on the list of vulnerable residential areas that the government calls the ghetto list, it helps to stigmatise that area. It helps make it harder to get people to move to the particular area. There will also be some people living in the area who think: the next time I have to make a job application, it might be an advantage that I have another address in order to get a job. What if, in the conversation I'm going to have with a potential employer, I have to explain that I've been living in this area, which has been a so-called ghetto, for 20 years? Is it the best basis for a young person to have a conversation with an employer? I don't think so. So there are some of these areas that would not want them to be described as a ghetto area, because they are in the process of lifting that area. And it is of course important, when we deal politically with troubled areas in Denmark, that we do so on a real and enlightened basis. There are areas that really need help, but there are also areas that should not be on this list at all and where we should support the good spiral in which those areas are situated. That is why it is very important that the Minister does not yet come to the conclusion that a list should be drawn up where there is, as it were, an observation that it is well known that this is not the correct basis. But if you use an old law and the conciliation circle around it won't change it, that's the list you have. But then we could have a list next to where there were a number of areas that were taken out of the government ghetto list. Can the Minister not see that this would be beneficial to those areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142706	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142707	I think, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen describes this problem quite wrong, also quite contrary to what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's party has participated in negotiations and agreements. Because being on the ghetto list is a prerequisite for getting some money, some means to improve conditions in the area. If you weren't on the ghetto list, you wouldn't be able to get that money. So being on the list is a helping hand for them to get a share in some of the money we have to do things better. Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's party participated in negotiations and agreements. I do not think that any of what is now in the form of legislation, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's party hasn't been part of it. You've been in all the housing contracts in recent years, haven't you?
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142754	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142755	With regard to the fact that you are given additional funds if you are declared to be a ghetto area: that is not correct. In the case of capital investment funds, two out of five criteria must be met. The Minister himself has replied to this very recently. So there isn't an automatic in it. Nor is there an automatic in the Landsbygningsfonden, which has a very large waiting list of projects on which applications are based. There's no automatic in getting a lot of support just because you're on this list. So I absolutely do not think what the Minister is saying is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142829	Well, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen would like to mean. But the reality is that and I don't understand that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is not really happy to hear that there are some parties that have helped to make the criteria for getting on the ghetto list. One of those parties is Enhedslisten. I'll call those parties for meetings before the next ghetto list arrives a new updated ghetto list. Then we'll talk about the criteria... if they're the way we want them... and then Enhedslisten can assert his influence and say his opinion about it. As far as I remember, both of our parties were actually a little critical of the fact that the education criterion was even needed to make a ghetto list, as a ghetto criterion. We can pick that up again if there is agreement that that is what we want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142915	Last question and last answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142918	Well, I think it is really important to relate to reality, even when making an application to the Landsbygningsfonden and perhaps to obtain support for a holistic action plan which is also based on social elements which can solve precisely the points that need to be resolved in the residential areas. I think it is a pity that we now have perhaps ten areas in Denmark which have received the stamp that they should not have this year and which they should not have last year either. This does not help to promote integration and a boost to these vulnerable residential areas. I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142953	The last reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117142955	I would like to make it clear that, in my opinion, it is not whether an area is on a ghetto list or not, which is the area's biggest problem. The area's biggest problem, e.g. Mjølnerparken and Vollsmose, in relation to attracting residents who do not have as much social problems as those who already live there, are linked to the area's present residents, its character and its structure, etc. And not to the relationship of whether it's on a ghetto list. Whether you want to write that you live in Mjølnerparken when you make a job application does not depend on whether Mjølnerparken is on the ghetto list. It depends on whether there are gang-related riots originating from the Mjølner Park. So I recognise, of course, that there are problems in those areas, but not that those problems are caused by the fact that you are on a ghetto list.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117143040	Thank you. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180117143047	Then there's nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 18 January 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
